Risk Factors." We believe that in addition to price, the principal competitive factors in the market for orthodontic appliances include the following: •aesthetic appeal of the treatment method; •effectiveness of treatment; •customer support; •comfort associated with the treatment method; •oral hygiene; •ease of use; and •dental professionals' chair time. We believe that Invisalign compares favorably with our competitors' products with respect to each of these factors. 16 Table of Contents Government Regulation FDA's Quality System Regulation for Medical Devices. The Invisalign system is classified as a Class II medical device. In 1998, we received pre-market clearance from the FDA pursuant to the 510(k) pre-market notification procedure, allowing us to market the product in the U.S. The Invisalign system was originally cleared for use by the FDA in patients with permanent teeth and contraindicated the device for patients presenting with mixed dentition, severe overbite, severe overjet, tooth malocclusion requiring surgical correction, adolescent patients with a skeletally narrow jaw, and adult patients with dental prosthetics/implants. In 2008, the FDA cleared new labeling for the Invisalign system, by removing the permanent dentition limitation from the indications for use. In addition, certain conditions previously listed as contraindications will now be listed as precautions. We believe our Invisalign system is in compliance in all material respects with applicable quality system regulations, record keeping and reporting requirements in the production and distribution of the Invisalign system. Our aligners are currently manufactured by IMS, a third party shelter services provider based in Juarez, Mexico. IMS is registered with the FDA as a medical device manufacturer and is certified to ISO 13485:2003 under Align's quality management system. We have also ensured that our quality system procedures and processes have been implemented at IMS to comply with the FDA's Quality Systems standards. IMS has dedicated an area in its facilities and trained personnel in the manufacture and distribution of Invisalign. We and IMS are subject to routine inspections by the FDA and state agencies to determine compliance with Quality System requirements. We are registered with the State of California as a medical device manufacturer. On December 22, 2008, we notified IMS of our intention to terminate IMS' shelter services arrangement effective April 2009. At that time, we will become a direct manufacturer of our clear aligners at the facility in Juarez, Mexico. If the FDA determines that we or IMS failed to comply with the applicable FDA regulations, it can institute a wide variety of enforcement actions against us, ranging from a public Warning Letter to more severe sanctions, including but not limited to financial penalties, withdrawal of our right to market our products and criminal prosecution. Health Canada's Medical Device Regulations. In Canada, we are required to comply with Health Canada's Medical Device Regulations. Our products are registered with Health Canada. We believe we are in compliance with their regulations and have been granted clearance to market our products in Canada. European Union's MDD Requirements & ISO 13485:2003. In Europe, Invisalign is regulated as a custom device and as such, we follow the requirements of the Medical Device Directives. We are ISO 13485:2003 certified, which facilitates commercialization of Invisalign outside the United States and especially in Europe. Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996. Under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, Congress mandated a package of interlocking administrative simplification rules to establish standards and requirements for electronic transmission of certain health information. Confidentiality of patient records and the circumstances under which these records may be released are subject to substantial regulations under the HIPAA Standards for Privacy of Individually Identifiable Health Information, referred to as the Privacy Standard, and other state laws and regulations. The Privacy Standard governs both the disclosure and the use of confidential patient medical information. Although compliance is the responsibility of the hospital, physician or other healthcare provider, we understand the importance to our customers and their patients of maintaining the confidentiality of patient information. Accordingly, we have designed our product and service offerings to be consistent with the requirements of the Privacy and Security standards under HIPAA and applicable corresponding state laws and regulations. Maintaining systems that are consistent with these laws and regulations is costly and could require complex changes in the way we do 17 Table of Contents business or provide services to our patients. Additionally, our success may be dependent on the success of healthcare participants in dealing with HIPAA requirements. Other Federal and State Laws. As a participant in the health care industry we are subject to extensive and frequently changing regulation under many other laws administered by governmental entities at the federal, state and local levels, some of which are, and others of which may be, applicable to our business. We are a medical device manufacturer subject to U.S. Food and Drug Administration regulations. These regulations, among other things, require that we maintain device and facilities registrations and listings as well as promote our products as permitted by our FDA clearances. Furthermore, our health care service provider customers are also subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations that could affect the nature and scope of their relationships with us. Laws regulating medical device manufacturers and health care providers cover a broad array of subjects. For example, the confidentiality of patient medical information and the circumstances under which such information may be used by us, released for inclusion in our databases, or released by us to third parties, are subject to substantial regulation by state governments. These state laws and regulations govern both the disclosure and the use of confidential patient medical information and are evolving rapidly. In addition, provisions under the federal anti-kickback statute prohibit, among other things, paying or offering to pay any remuneration in exchange for the referral of patients to a person participating in, or for the order, purchase or recommendation of items or services that are subject to reimbursement by, Medicare, Medicaid and other similar federal or state health care programs. Most states have also enacted illegal remuneration laws that are similar to the federal laws. These laws, which are evolving at the federal and state levels, are applicable to our financial relationships with, and any marketing or other promotional activities involving, our dental professional customers. Violations of any of these laws or regulations could subject us to a variety of civil and criminal sanctions. Employees As of December 31, 2008, we had 1,394 employees, including 747 in manufacturing and operations, 339 in sales and marketing, 137 in research and development and 171 in general and administrative functions. We had 503 employees in North America, 721 employees in Costa Rica, 160 employees in Europe and 10 employees in Japan. Available Information Our website is located at www.aligntech.com, and our investor relations website is located at http://investor.aligntech.com. The information on or accessible through our websites is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, our proxy statement on Schedule 14A for our annual stockholders' meeting and amendments to such reports are available, free of charge, on our investor relations website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such material with the SEC. Further, a copy of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is located at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding our filings at www.sec.gov. 18 Table of Contents Executive Officers of the Registrant The following table sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers as of February 26, 2009: Name Age Position Thomas M. Prescott 53 President and Chief Executive Officer Kenneth B. Arola 53 Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer Dana Cambra 51 Vice President, Research & Development and Information Technology Dan S. Ellis 57 Vice President, North American Sales Roger E. George 43 Vice President, Legal and Corporate Affairs General Counsel and Corporate Secretary Len M. Hedge 51 Senior Vice President, Business Operations Gil Laks 43 Vice President, International Emory Wright 39 Vice President, Operations Thomas M. Prescott has served as our President and Chief Executive Officer and as a member of our Board of Directors since March 2002. Prior to joining us, Mr. Prescott was President and Chief Executive Officer of Cardiac Pathways, Inc., a publicly-traded medical device company, from May 1999 until its acquisition by Boston Scientific in August 2001. Mr. Prescott then worked as a consultant for Boston Scientific Corporation until January 2002. Prior to working at Cardiac Pathways, Mr. Prescott held various sales, general management and executive roles at Nellcor Puritan Bennett, Inc. from April 1994 to May 1999. Mr. Prescott serves as a director of Interventional Rhythm Management, Inc., a privately held company. Kenneth B. Arola has served as our Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer since December 2007. He joined us as Vice President of Finance and Corporate Controller in August 2005. Prior to joining us, Mr. Arola served for fourteen years at Adaptec, Inc, an electronic data storage equipment company, where he held various senior finance management positions, most recently as Vice President of Finance and Corporate Controller. His experience also includes positions of increasing responsibility in various financial roles at Varian Associates and Cooper Labs. Dana C. Cambra our Vice President, Research & Development and Information Technology has been with Align since June 2008. Prior to joining us, Mr. Cambra served as Senior Vice President, Research and Development for Pharsight Corporation, a provider of simulation and modeling software for pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies from March 2007 to June 2008. Prior to his role at Pharsight, Mr. Cambra was Vice President, Engineering at Stentor Inc., a medical image and information management software provider from October 2002 to February 2006. Earlier roles included executive engineering and operations positions at Visto Corporation and iScribe, Inc. Mr. Cambra also spent several years in positions of increasing responsibility at Acuson Corporation, now a Siemens Company. Dan S. Ellis has served as our Vice President, North American Sales since June 2005. Prior to joining us, Mr. Ellis was Vice President, Sales for privately-held BARRx Medical, a medical device company, from September 2004 to June 2005. From June 1999 to May 2004, Mr. Ellis was at Fusion Medical Technologies, a division of Baxter Healthcare, most recently as Vice President, BioSurgery US. From January 1998 to June 1999, Mr. Ellis served as Vice President, Sales & Marketing for Cardiac Pathways, Inc. Earlier in his career, Mr. Ellis held national sales positions of increasing scope and responsibility at Fusion Medical Technologies and Eli Lilly MDD/Guidant Corporation. Roger E. George has served as our Vice President, Legal and Corporate Affairs, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since July 2002. Prior to joining us, Mr. George was the Chief Financial Officer, Vice President of Finance and Legal Affairs and General Counsel of SkyStream Networks, a 19 Table of Contents privately held broadband and broadcast network equipment company. Prior to SkyStream, Mr. George was a partner at Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati, P.C. in Palo Alto, California. Len M. Hedge has served as our Senior Vice President, Business Operations since December 2007. He joined us as our Vice President, of Manufacturing in January 1999 and was our Vice President, of Operations from March 2002 to December 2007. Prior to joining us, Mr. Hedge served as Vice President of Operations for Plynetics Express Corporation, a rapid-prototyping and stereolithography services supplier, from December 1996 to December 1998. From October 1991 to December 1996, Mr. Hedge worked at Beckman Instruments Corporation as Manager for Prototype Manufacturing and Process Development. Gil Laks has served as our Vice President, International since September 2005, and served as our Vice President, Europe since June 2001. Prior to joining us, Mr. Laks was Vice President, Business Development for the diagnostic imaging division of Singapore Technologies, from November 1999 to May 2001. He also served as Director of International for ISIX, Ltd., an educational computing services firm, from October 1996 to October 1999. Emory M. Wright has served as our Vice President, Operations since December 2007. He has been with us since March 2000, predominantly in manufacturing and operations roles. Previously, Mr. Wright served as Vice President, Manufacturing and most recently was General Manager of New Product Development. Prior to joining us, Mr. Wright was Senior Manufacturing Manager at Metrika, Inc. a medical device manufacturer, from May 1999 to March 2000. From July 1994 to May 1999, Mr. Wright served as Manager of Manufacturing and Process Development for Metra Biosystems Inc. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have only recently returned to profitability. If we fail to sustain or increase profitability or revenue growth in future periods, the market price for our common stock may decline. Although we maintained profitability in 2008, if we are to sustain or increase profitability in future periods, we will need to continue to increase our revenues, while controlling our expenses. While we generated positive operating cash flow in 2008, we cannot be certain that we will be able to achieve positive cash flow from operations, from period to period, in the future. Because our business is evolving, it is difficult to predict our future operating results or levels of growth, and we have in the past not been and may in the future not be able to sustain our historical growth rates. If we do not increase profitability or revenue growth or otherwise meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the market price of our common stock will likely decline. Our financial results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future which may cause volatility in our stock price. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and we expect our future quarterly and annual operating results to fluctuate as we focus on increasing doctor and consumer demand for our products. These fluctuations could cause our stock price to decline. Some of the factors that could cause our operating results to fluctuate include: •limited visibility into and difficulty predicting the level of activity in our customers' practices from quarter to quarter; •weakness in consumer spending as a result of the slowdown in the United States economy and global economies; •changes in the timing of receipt of case product orders during a given quarter which, given our cycle time and the delay between case receipts and case shipments, could have an impact on which quarter revenue can be recognized; 20 Table of Contents •changes in product mix; •seasonal fluctuations in the number of doctors in their offices and their availability to take appointments; •success of marketing programs from quarter to quarter; •changes in the timing of when revenue is recognized as a result of the introduction of new products such as Invisalign Assist and Invisalign Teen; •changes to our effective tax rate; •unanticipated delays in production caused by insufficient capacity; •any disruptions in the manufacturing process, including unexpected turnover in the labor force or the introduction of new production processes or natural or other disasters beyond our control; •the development and marketing of directly competitive products by existing and new competitors; •aggressive price competition from competitors; •costs and expenditures in connection with litigation; •inaccurate forecasting of revenues, production and other operating costs; and •investments in research and development to develop new products and enhancements to Invisalign. To respond to these and other factors, we may need to make business decisions that could adversely affect our operating results such as modifications to our pricing policy, business structure or operations. Most of our expenses, such as employee compensation and lease payment obligations, are relatively fixed in the short term. Moreover, our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations regarding future revenue levels. As a result, if our revenues for a particular period fall below our expectations, whether caused by changes in consumer spending, consumer preferences, weakness in the U.S. or global economies, changes in customer behavior related to advertising and prescribing our product, or other factors, we may be unable to adjust spending quickly enough to offset any shortfall in revenues. Due to these and other factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our results for any one quarter as an indication of our future performance. We depend on the sale of the Invisalign system for the vast majority of our revenues, and any decline in sales of Invisalign for any reason, including as a result of a decline in general economic conditions, or a decline in average selling prices would adversely affect revenues, gross margin and net profits. We expect that revenues from the sale of the Invisalign system will continue to account for the vast majority of our total revenues for the foreseeable future. Continued and widespread market acceptance of Invisalign by orthodontists, GPs and consumers is critical to our future success. If orthodontists and GPs experience a reduction in consumer demand for orthodontic services, if consumers prove unwilling to adopt Invisalign as rapidly as we anticipate or in the volume that we anticipate, if orthodontists or GPs choose to use a competitive product rather than Invisalign or if the average selling price of our product declines, our operating results would be harmed. Factors that could cause adoption of Invisalign at a lower rate than we expect, as well as the risk related to declining average selling prices are described more fully below. 21 Table of Contents Consumers may not adopt Invisalign as rapidly as we anticipate due to a variety of factors including a continued decline in general economic conditions. Consumer spending habits are affected by, among other things, prevailing economic conditions, levels of employment, salaries and wage rates, gas prices, consumer confidence and consumer perception of economic conditions. A general slowdown in the United States economy and certain international economies or an uncertain economic outlook would adversely affect consumer spending habits which may among other things result in a decrease in the number of overall orthodontic case starts or a reduction in the demand for Invisalign generally either of which would have a material adverse effect on our sales and operating results. In addition, Invisalign represents a significant change from traditional orthodontic treatment, and consumers may be reluctant to accept it or may not find it preferable to traditional treatment We have generally received positive feedback from both orthodontists, GPs and consumers regarding Invisalign as both an alternative to braces and as a clinical method for treatment of malocclusion, but a number of dental professionals believe that Invisalign is appropriate for only a limited percentage of their patients. Market acceptance will depend in part upon the recommendations of dental professionals, as well as other factors including effectiveness, safety, ease of use, reliability, aesthetics, greater comfort and hygiene compared to traditional orthodontic products and price for Invisalign compared to competing products. Orthodontists and GPs may not adopt Invisalign in sufficient numbers or as rapidly as we anticipate. Our success depends upon increasing acceptance and frequency of use of the Invisalign system by dental professionals (what we refer to as utilization). Invisalign requires orthodontists, GPs and their staff to undergo special training and learn to interact with patients in new ways. Increasing adoption and cumulative use by orthodontists and GPs will depend on factors such as the capability, safety, efficacy, ease of use, price, quality and reliability of our products, our ability to provide effective sales support, training and service and the availability of competing products, technologies and alternative treatments. In addition, unanticipated poor clinical performance of Invisalign could result in significant adverse publicity and, consequently, reduced acceptance by dental professionals. Also increased competition from direct competitors could cause us to lose market share and reduce dental professionals' efforts and commitment to expand their Invisalign practice. If adoption and utilization does not increase as we anticipate, our revenues may fail to grow as expected and our operating results may be harmed. The frequency of use by orthodontists or GPs may not increase at the rate that we anticipate or at all. One of our key objectives is to continue to increase utilization, or the adoption and frequency of use, of the Invisalign system by new and existing customers. If utilization of Invisalign by our existing and newly trained orthodontists or GPs does not occur or does not occur as quickly as we anticipate, our operating results could be harmed. We may experience declines in average selling prices of our products. In response to challenges in our business, including increased competition, we have in the past reduced the list price of our products. In addition, we provide volume based discount programs to our doctors. If we are to introduce any price reductions or expand our discount programs in the future or if participation in these programs increases, our revenues, gross margin and net profits (losses) may be adversely affected. Furthermore, although the U.S. dollar is our reporting currency, a portion of our revenues and profits are generated in foreign currencies. Revenues and profits generated by subsidiaries operating outside of the United States are translated into U.S. dollars using exchange rates effective during the respective period and as a result are affected by changes in exchange rates. As a result, negative movements in currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar will adversely affect our average selling price and consequently the amount of revenues and profits in our consolidated financial statements. 22 Table of Contents We may experience unexpected problems and expenses associated with the phased-relocation of our customer facing organizations to Costa Rica. In October 2008, we announced a restructuring plan to increase efficiencies across the organization and lower our overall cost structure. In addition to headcount reduction, the restructuring plan included the phased-relocation of our customer care, accounts receivable, credit and collections and customer event registration organizations currently located in Santa Clara, California, to our facility in Costa Rica. We expect this relocation to be completed by the end of July 2009. This relocation is accompanied by a number of risks and uncertainties that may affect our results of operations and statement of cash flows, including: •failure to successfully coordinate and phase the relocation of these customer facing organizations may cause our customers to experience decrease in service levels; •the relocation may absorb significant management and key employee attention and resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing business operations; •failure to retain key employees who possess specific knowledge or expertise and upon whom we are depending upon for the timely and successful transition to Costa Rica; and •difficulties in hiring employees in Costa Rica with the necessary skills to perform these customer facing functions. If any of these risks materialize in the future, our operating results, statement of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected. Our future success may depend on our ability to develop, successfully introduce and achieve market acceptance of new products. Our future success may depend on our ability to develop, manufacture, market, and obtain regulatory approval or clearance of new products. We launched Invisalign Teen in July 2008 and Invisalign Assist in October 2008. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop, sell and achieve market acceptance of these and other new products and applications and enhanced versions of our existing product. The extent of, and rate at which, market acceptance and penetration are achieved by future products is a function of many variables, which include, among other things, our ability to include functionality and features that address customer requirements, the availability of third-party reimbursement of procedures using our new products, the existence of competing products and general economic conditions affecting purchasing patterns. In addition, even if our new products are successfully introduced, it is unlikely that they will rapidly gain market share and acceptance primarily due to the relatively long period of time it takes to successfully treat a patient. Since it takes approximately 12 to 24 months to treat a patient, our customers may be unwilling to rapidly adopt our new products until they successfully complete at least one case or until more historical clinical results are available. Our ability to market and sell new products may also be subject to government regulation, including approval or clearance by the United States Food and Drug Administration ("FDA"), and foreign government agencies. Any failure in our ability to successfully develop and introduce or achieve market acceptance of our new products or enhanced versions of existing products could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and could cause our revenues to decline. A disruption in the operations of our primary freight carrier or higher shipping costs could cause a decline in our revenues or a reduction in our earnings. We are dependent on commercial freight carriers, primarily UPS, to deliver our products. If the operations of these carriers are disrupted for any reason, we may be unable to deliver our products to 23 Table of Contents our customers on a timely basis. If we cannot deliver our products in an efficient and timely manner, our customers may reduce their orders from us and our revenues and operating profits could materially decline. In a rising fuel cost environment, our freight costs will increase. If freight costs materially increase and we are unable to pass that increase along to our customers for any reason or otherwise offset such increases in our cost of revenues, our gross margin and financial results could be adversely affected. We are dependent on our international operations, which exposes us to foreign operational, political and other risks that may harm our business. Our key production steps are performed in operations located outside of the U.S. At our facility in Costa Rica, technicians use a sophisticated, internally developed computer-modeling program to prepare digital treatment plans, which are then transmitted electronically to the Juarez, Mexico. These digital files form the basis of ClinCheck and are used to manufacture aligner molds. Our order acquisition, aligner fabrication and shipping operations are conducted in Juarez, Mexico. In addition to the research and development efforts conducted in our Santa Clara, California facility, we also carry out research and development at locations in San Jose, Costa Rica and Moscow, Russia. In October 2008, we announced the phased-consolidation of our customer-care, accounts receivable, credit and collections and customer event registration organizations, which are currently located in Santa Clara, California, to our facility in Costa Rica. We expect this relocation to be completed by the end of July 2009. Our increasing reliance on international operations exposes us to risks and uncertainties that may affect our business or results of operation, including: •difficulties in hiring and retaining employees generally, as well as difficulties in hiring and retaining employees with the necessary skills to perform the more technical aspects of our operations; •difficulties in managing international operations; •fluctuations in currency exchange rates; •import and export license requirements and restrictions; •controlling production volume and quality of the manufacturing process; •political, social and economic instability, including as a result of increased levels of violence in Juarez, Mexico; •acts of terrorism and acts of war; •interruptions and limitations in telecommunication services; •product or material transportation delays or disruption; •burdens of complying with a wide variety of local country and regional laws; •trade restrictions and changes in tariffs; and •potential adverse tax consequences. If any of these risks materialize in the future, we could experience production delays and lost or delayed revenue. 24 Table of Contents We currently are transitioning from reliance on a shelter service arrangement to become a direct manufacturer of our products. If we fail to successfully manage this transition, our business may be harmed. We currently rely on IMS, a third party shelter services provider located in Juarez, Mexico, for order acquisition, to fabricate aligner molds as well as finished aligners and to ship the completed product to customers. On December 22, 2008, we announced the termination of our shelter services arrangement with IMS effective April 1, 2009. In addition to the risks related to international operations described in the risk factor above, any difficulties encountered by us with respect to a transition from a third party shelter services arrangement to manufacture, including difficulties hiring and retaining qualified personnel could disrupt our ability to deliver our products in a timely manner which could harm our business. In addition, any delay in completing the transition could result in increased transition costs, which could decrease the amount of expected savings. A key step in our manufacturing process relies on sophisticated computer technology that requires new technicians to undergo a relatively long training process. If we are unable to accurately predict our volume growth, and fail to hire a sufficient number of technicians in advance of such demand, the delivery time of our products could be delayed which could adversely affect our results of operations. Training technicians to use our sophisticated computer modeling program that produces the digital treatment plan that forms the basis of ClinCheck takes approximately 90 to 120 days. As a result, if we are unable to accurately predict our volume growth, we may not have a sufficient number of trained technicians to timely create ClinCheck treatment plans within the timeframe our customers expect. Any delay in ClinCheck processing time could delay the ultimate delivery of finished aligners to our customers. Such a delay could cause us to lose existing customers or fail to attract new customers. This could cause a decline in our revenues and net profits and could adversely affect our results of operations. Our headquarters, ClinCheck setup and other manufacturing processes are all principally located in regions that are subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters. Our digital dental modeling is processed in our facility located in San Jose, Costa Rica. The operations team in Costa Rica creates ClinCheck treatment plans using sophisticated computer software. We are also transitioning our customer facing operations from Santa Clara, California to Costa Rica. In addition, our aligner molds and finished aligners are fabricated in Juarez, Mexico. Both Costa Rica and Mexico are in earthquake zones and may be subject to other natural disasters. If there is a major earthquake or any other natural disaster in a region where one of these facilities is located, our ability to create ClinCheck treatment plans or manufacture and ship our aligners could be compromised which could result in our customers experiencing a significant delay in receiving their completed aligners. In addition, our headquarters facility is located in the San Francisco Bay Area. An earthquake or other natural disaster in this region could result in a disruption in our operations. Any such business interruption could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We experience competition from manufacturers of traditional braces and expect aggressive competition from these and other companies that may introduce new technologies in the future. Currently, our Invisalign product competes directly against products manufactured and distributed by Ormco Orthodontics, a division of Sybron Dental Specialties (a Danaher Corporation subsidiary), and traditional braces manufactured by 3M Company and Dentsply International. These manufacturers have substantially greater financial resources and manufacturing and marketing experience than we do and may, in the future, attempt to develop an orthodontic system similar to ours or combine technologies that make our product economically unattractive. Large consumer product companies may 25 Table of Contents also enter the orthodontic supply market. Furthermore, we may face competition in the future from new companies that may introduce new technologies. We may be unable to compete with these competitors and one or more of these competitors may render our technology obsolete or economically unattractive. If we are unable to compete effectively with existing products or respond effectively to any products developed by new or existing competitors, our business could be harmed. Increased competition has resulted in the past and may in the future result in volume discounting and price reductions, reduced gross margins, reduced profitability and loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, volume growth, net profit (losses) and stock price. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors or that competitive pressures will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our information technology systems are critical to our business. System integration and implementation issues and system security risks could disrupt our operations, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results. We rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology systems. All information technology systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from a variety of sources. As our business has grown in size and complexity, the growth has placed, and will continue to place, significant demands on our information technology systems. To effectively manage this growth, we will need to continually upgrade and enhance our information systems. In addition, experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. Furthermore, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we either internally develop or procure from third parties may contain defects in design and manufacture, including "bugs" and other problems that can unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. The costs to eliminate or alleviate security problems, viruses and bugs could be significant, and the efforts to address these problems could result in interruptions that may have a material adverse impact on our operations, revenues and operating results. We are currently focused on adding more functionality into our business enterprise systems to more efficiently integrate these systems with our other system applications, such as customer facing and manufacturing tools, and intend to continue this effort for the foreseeable future. System upgrades and enhancements require significant expenditures and allocation of valuable employee resources. Delays in integration or disruptions to our business from implementation of these new or upgraded systems could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. Furthermore, we continuously upgrade our customer facing software applications, specifically ClinCheck and VIP. Software applications frequently contain errors or defects, especially when they are first introduced or when new versions are released. The discovery of a defect or error in a new upgraded version or the failure of our primary information systems may result in the following consequences, among others: loss of revenue or delay in market acceptance, damage to our reputation or increased service costs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our success depends in part on our proprietary technology, and if we are unable to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position may be harmed. Litigating claims of this type is costly and could distract our management and cause a decline in our results of operations and stock price. Our success will depend in part on our ability to maintain existing intellectual property and to obtain and maintain further intellectual property protection for our products, both in the U.S. and in other countries. Our inability to do so could harm our competitive position. As of December 31, 2008, we had 118 issued U.S. patents, 181 pending U.S. patent applications, and 47 issued foreign patents, and 142 pending foreign patent applications. 26 Table of Contents We intend to rely on our portfolio of issued and pending patent applications in the U.S. and in other countries to protect a large part of our intellectual property and our competitive position. However, our currently pending or future patent filings may not result in the issuance of patents. Additionally, any patents issued to us may be challenged, invalidated, held unenforceable, circumvented, or may not be sufficiently broad to prevent third parties from producing competing products similar in design to our products. During fiscal 2005 and 2006, requests were filed with the United States Patent and Trademark Office ("USPTO") by a San Francisco, California law firm, acting on behalf of an unnamed party and in some instances acting on behalf of OrthoClear, requesting re-examination of a number of our patents. In addition, any protection afforded by foreign patents may be more limited than that provided under U.S. patents and intellectual property laws. We also rely on protection of our copyrights, trade secrets, know-how and proprietary information. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and our collaborative partners upon commencement of a relationship with us. However, these agreements may not provide meaningful protection against the unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets or other confidential information, and adequate remedies may not exist if unauthorized use or disclosure were to occur. Our inability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology through patents, copyrights or trade secrets would impair our competitive advantages and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and future growth prospects. In particular, a failure to protect our proprietary rights might allow competitors to copy our technology, which could adversely affect our pricing and market share. In addition, in an effort to protect our intellectual property we have in the past been and may in the future be involved in litigation. The potential effects on our business operations resulting from litigation that we may participate in the future, whether or not ultimately determined in our favor or settled by us, are costly and divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel from normal business operations. Any of these results from our litigation could adversely affect our results of operations and stock price. We are currently a party to various other legal proceedings and claims. Management does not believe that the ultimate outcome of these other legal proceedings and claims will have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. In addition, litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties and unfavorable rulings could occur. An unfavorable ruling could include monetary damages or, in cases where injunctive relief is sought, an injunction prohibiting us from selling our products. Any of these results from our litigation could adversely affect our results of operations and stock price. See Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a summary of our material pending legal proceedings. While we believe we currently have adequate internal control over financial reporting, we are required to assess our internal control over financial reporting on an annual basis and any future adverse results from such assessment could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC, we are required to furnish in our Form 10-K an Annual Report by our management regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The report includes, among other things, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. While we currently believe our internal control over financial reporting is effective, the effectiveness of our internal controls to future periods is subject to the risk that our controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, and, as a result, the degree of compliance of our internal control over financial reporting with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective in any future period (or if our auditors are unable to express an 27 Table of Contents opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls or conclude that our internal controls are ineffective), we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. If we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain key personnel, we may be unable to pursue business opportunities or develop our products. We are highly dependent on the key employees in our clinical engineering, technology development, sales and marketing personnel and management teams. The loss of the services provided by those individuals may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our product development and other business objectives and could harm our business. Our future success will also depend on our ability to identify, recruit, train and retain additional qualified personnel, including orthodontists. Few orthodontists are accustomed to working in a manufacturing environment since they are generally trained to work in private practices, universities and other research institutions. Thus, we may be unable to attract and retain personnel with the advanced qualifications necessary for the further development of our business. Furthermore, we may not be successful in retaining our key personnel or their services. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our business could be materially harmed. If we infringe the patents or proprietary rights of other parties or are subject to a patent infringement claim, our ability to grow our business may be severely limited. Extensive litigation over patents and other intellectual property rights is common in the medical device industry. We have been sued for infringement of third party's patents in the past and we may be the subject of patent or other litigation in the future. From time to time, we have received and may in the future receive letters from third parties drawing our attention to their patent rights. While we do not believe that we infringe upon any valid and enforceable rights that have been brought to our attention, there may be other more pertinent rights of which we are presently unaware. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, interference proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings could result in substantial expense to us and significant diversion of effort by our technical and management personnel. An adverse determination of any litigation or interference proceeding to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liabilities. An adverse determination of this nature could also put our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly or require us to seek licenses from third parties. Licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all, in which event, our business would be materially adversely affected. We maintain single supply relationships for certain of our key machines and materials technologies, and our business and operating results could be harmed if supply is restricted or ends or the price of raw materials used in our manufacturing process increases. We are highly dependent on manufacturers of specialized scanning equipment, rapid prototyping machines, resin and other advanced materials. We maintain single supply relationships for many of these machines and materials technologies. In particular, our scanning and stereolithography equipment are provided by a single supplier. We are also committed to purchasing all of our resin and polymer, the primary raw materials used in our manufacturing process, from a single-source. In addition, technology changes by our vendors could disrupt access to required manufacturing capacity or require expensive, time consuming development efforts to adapt and integrate new equipment or processes. Our growth may exceed the capacity of one or more of these manufacturers to produce the needed equipment and materials in sufficient quantities to support our growth. In the event of technology changes, delivery delays, or shortages of or increases in price for these items, our business and growth prospects may be harmed. 28 Table of Contents We rely on our direct sales force to sell our products, and any failure to maintain our direct sales force could harm our business. Our ability to sell our products and generate revenues depends upon our direct sales force within our North American and international markets. As of December 31, 2008, our North American sales organization consisted of 161 people, of which 134 were direct sales representatives and 27 were sales administration and regional sales management. Internationally, we had 41 people engaged in sales and sales support as of December 31, 2008. We do not have any long-term employment contracts with the members of our direct sales force. The loss of the services provided by these key personnel may harm our business. If we are unable to retain our direct sales force personnel or replace them with individuals of equivalent technical expertise and qualifications, or if we are unable to successfully instill such technical expertise or if we fail to establish strong relationships with our customers within a relatively short period of time, our revenues and our ability to maintain market share could be materially harmed. In addition, due to our large and fragmented customer base, we may not be able to provide all of our customers with product support immediately upon the launch of a new product. As a result, adoption of new products by our customers may be slower than anticipated and our ability to grow market share and increase our revenues may be harmed. Complying with regulations enforced by the FDA and other regulatory authorities is an expensive and time-consuming process, and any failure to comply could result in substantial penalties. Our products are medical devices and are subject to extensive regulation in the U.S. and internationally. FDA regulations are wide ranging and govern, among other things: •product design, development, manufacturing and testing; •product labeling; •product storage; •pre-market clearance or approval; •advertising and promotion; and •product sales and distribution. Our failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in enforcement action by the FDA or state agencies, which may include any of the following sanctions: •warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties; •repair, replacement, refunds, recall or seizure of our products; •operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production; •refusing our requests for 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval of new products, new intended uses, or modifications to existing products; •withdrawing clearance or pre-market approvals that have already been granted; and •criminal prosecution. If any of these events were to occur, they could harm our business. We must comply with facility registration and product listing requirements of the FDA and adhere to applicable Quality System regulations. The FDA enforces its Quality System regulations through periodic unannounced inspections. Our failure or the failure of IMS to take satisfactory corrective action in response to an adverse inspection or the failure to comply with applicable manufacturing regulations could result in enforcement action, and we may be required to find alternative manufacturers, which could be a long and costly process. 29 Table of Contents Before we can sell a new medical device in the U.S., or market a new use of or claim for an existing product we must obtain FDA clearance or approval, unless an exemption applies. Obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals can be a lengthy and time-consuming process. Even though the devices we market have obtained the necessary clearances from the FDA, we may be unable to maintain such clearances in the future. Furthermore, we may be unable to obtain the necessary clearances for new devices that we intend to market in the future. Our inability to maintain or obtain regulatory clearances or approvals could materially harm our business. If the security of our customer and patient information is compromised, patient care could suffer, and we could be liable for related damages, and our reputation could be impaired. We retain confidential customer and patient information in our processing centers. Therefore, it is critical that our facilities and infrastructure remain secure and that our facilities and infrastructure are perceived by the marketplace and our customers to be secure. Despite the implementation of security measures, our infrastructure may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, programming errors, attacks by third parties or similar disruptive problems. If we fail to meet our clients' expectations regarding the security of healthcare information, we could be liable for damages and our reputation could be impaired. In addition, patient care could suffer, and we could be liable if our systems fail to deliver correct information in a timely manner. Our insurance may not protect us from this risk. If compliance with healthcare regulations becomes costly and difficult for our customers or for us, we may not be able to grow our business. Participants in the healthcare industry are subject to extensive and frequently changing regulations under numerous laws administered by governmental entities at the federal, state and local levels, some of which are, and others of which may be, applicable to our business. Furthermore, our healthcare provider customers are also subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations that could affect the nature and scope of their relationships with us. The healthcare market itself is highly regulated and subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences. Regulations implemented pursuant to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), including regulations affecting the security and privacy of patient healthcare information held by healthcare providers and their business associates may require us to make significant and unplanned enhancements of software applications or services, result in delays or cancellations of orders, or result in the revocation of endorsement of our products and services by healthcare participants. The effect of HIPAA and newly enforced regulations on our business is difficult to predict, and there can be no assurance that we will adequately address the business risks created by HIPAA and its implementation or that we will be able to take advantage of any resulting business opportunities. Extensive and changing government regulation of the healthcare industry may be expensive to comply with and exposes us to the risk of substantial government penalties. In addition to medical device laws and regulations, numerous state and federal healthcare-related laws regulate our business, covering areas such as: •storage, transmission and disclosure of medical information and healthcare records; •prohibitions against the offer, payment or receipt of remuneration to induce referrals to entities providing healthcare services or goods or to induce the order, purchase or recommendation of our products; and •the marketing and advertising of our products. 30 Table of Contents Complying with these laws and regulations could be expensive and time-consuming, and could increase our operating costs or reduce or eliminate certain of our sales and marketing activities or our revenues. We face risks related to our international sales, including the need to obtain necessary foreign regulatory clearance or approvals. We currently sell our products in Europe, Asia Pacific, Latin America and Japan and may expand into other countries from time to time. We do not know whether orthodontists, GPs and consumers outside our North American market will adopt Invisalign in sufficient numbers or as rapidly as we anticipate. In addition, sales of our products outside the U.S. are subject to foreign regulatory requirements that vary widely from country to country. The time required to obtain clearances or approvals required by other countries may be longer than that required for FDA clearance or approval, and requirements for such approvals may differ from FDA requirements. We may be unable to obtain regulatory approvals in one or more of the other countries in which we do business or in which we may do business in the future. We may also incur significant costs in attempting to obtain and maintain foreign regulatory approvals. If we experience delays in receipt of approvals to market our products outside of the U.S., or if we fail to receive these approvals, we may be unable to market our products or enhancements in international markets in a timely manner, if at all. Our business exposes us to potential product liability claims, and we may incur substantial expenses if we are subject to product liability claims or litigation. Medical devices involve an inherent risk of product liability claims and associated adverse publicity. We may be held liable if any product we develop or any product that uses or incorporates any of our technologies causes injury or is otherwise found unsuitable. Although we intend to continue to maintain product liability insurance, adequate insurance may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all, and may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. A product liability claim, regardless of its merit or eventual outcome, could result in significant legal defense costs. These costs would have the effect of increasing our expenses and diverting management's attention away from the operation of our business, and could harm our business. Historically, the market price for our common stock has been volatile. The market price of our common stock could be subject to wide price fluctuations in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control. The factors include: •quarterly variations in our results of operations and liquidity; •changes in recommendations by the investment community or in their estimates of our revenues or operating results; •speculation in the press or investment community concerning our business and results of operations; •strategic actions by our competitors, such as product announcements or acquisitions; •announcements of technological innovations or new products by us, our customers or competitors; and •general economic market conditions. 31 Table of Contents In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for technology and medical device companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated to or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, class action litigation has often been brought against the issuing company following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities. If a securities class action suit is filed against us in the future, we would incur substantial legal fees, and our management's attention and resources would be diverted from operating our business in order to respond to the litigation. Future sales of significant amounts of our common stock may depress our stock price. A large percentage of our outstanding common stock is currently owned by a small number of significant stockholders. These stockholders have sold in the past, and may sell in the future, large amounts of common stock over relatively short periods of time. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market by our existing stockholders may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Such sales could create public perception of difficulties or problems with our business and may depress our stock price. Changes in, or interpretations of, accounting rules and regulations, could result in unfavorable accounting charges. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These principles are subject to interpretation by the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in these policies can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even retroactively affect previously reported transactions. Our accounting policies that recently have been or may be affected by changes in the accounting rules are as follows: •revenue recognition; •accounting for share-based payments; and •accounting for income taxes. If we fail to manage our exposure to global financial and securities market risk successfully, our operating results and financial statements could be materially impacted. The primary objective of most of our investment activities is to preserve principal. To achieve this objective, a majority of our marketable investments are investment grade, liquid, short-term fixed-income securities and money market instruments denominated in U.S. dollars. If the carrying value of our investments exceeds the fair value, and the decline in fair value is deemed to be other-than-temporary, we will be required to write down the value of our investments, which could materially harm our results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, the performance of certain securities in our investment portfolio correlates with the credit condition of the U.S. financial sector. With the current unstable credit environment, we might incur significant realized, unrealized or impairment losses associated with these investments. We have adopted a shareholders rights' plan to limit the possibility that we are acquired, which may mean that a transaction that shareholders are in favor of or are benefited by may be prevented. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of such shares without any further vote or action by our shareholders. To date, our board of directors has designated 200,000 shares as Series A 32 Table of Contents participating preferred stock in connection with our shareholder rights' plan. The issuance of preferred stock under certain circumstances could have the effect of delaying or preventing an acquisition of the company or otherwise adversely affecting the rights of the holders of our stock. The shareholder rights' plan may have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition of our company which is deemed undesirable by our board of directors. The shareholder rights' plan may cause substantial dilution to a person or group attempting to acquire us on terms or in a manner not approved by our board of directors, except pursuant to an offer conditioned on the negation, purchase or redemption of the rights issued under the shareholder rights' plan. Our effective tax rate may vary significantly from period to period. Various internal and external factors may have favorable or unfavorable effects on our future effective tax rate. These factors include, but are not limited to, changes in tax laws, regulations and/or rates, changing interpretations of existing tax laws or regulations, the future levels of tax benefits of stock option deductions relating to incentive stock options and employee stock purchase plans and changes in overall levels of pretax earnings. In addition, we have negotiated tax incentives with the Costa Rica Ministry of Foreign Trade, an agency of the Government of Costa Rica. Under these incentives, all of the income we earn in Costa Rica during these eight to twelve year incentive periods is subject to reduced rates of Costa Rica income tax. The incentive tax rates will expire in various years beginning in 2010. The Costa Rica corporate income tax rate that would apply, absent the incentives, is 30% for 2009. As a result of these incentives, income taxes decreased by $1.3 million in 2008. In order to receive the benefit of the incentives, we must hire specified numbers of employees and maintain minimum levels of fixed asset investment in Costa Rica. If we do not fulfill these conditions for any reason, our incentive could lapse and our income in Costa Rica would be subject to taxation at higher rates, which could have a negative impact on our operating results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 