Item 1A. Risk Factors Trends, Risks and Uncertainties Overview This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes “forward-looking statements,” as that term is defined in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, included or incorporated in this Form 10-K are forward-looking statements, particularly statements about our plans, strategies and prospects under the headings “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Business.” Forward-looking statements are often characterized by the use of words such as “believes,” “estimates,” “expects,” “projects,” “may,” “will,” “intends,” “plans,” or “anticipates,” or by discussions of strategy, plans or intentions. All forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K are made based on our current expectations and estimates, which involve risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause results or events to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements. Among these factors are, as discussed more below, our revenues and operating performance, changes in overall economic conditions, the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry, changes in demand for our products, changes in inventories at our customers and distributors, technological and product development risks, availability of raw materials, competitors’ actions, pricing and gross profit pressures, loss of key customers, order cancellations or reduced bookings, changes in manufacturing yields, control of costs and expenses, significant litigation, risks associated with acquisitions and dispositions, risks associated with our substantial leverage and restrictive covenants in our debt agreements, risks associated with our international operations, the threat or occurrence of international armed conflict and terrorist activities both in the United States and internationally, risks and costs associated with increased and new regulation of corporate governance and disclosure standards (including pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002), and risks involving environmental or other governmental regulation. Additional factors that could affect our future results or events are described from time to time in our Securities and Exchange Commission reports. See in particular the description of trends, risks and uncertainties that is set forth below and similar disclosures in subsequently filed reports. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. We assume no obligation to update such information. You should carefully consider the trends, risks and uncertainties described below and other information in this Form 10-K and subsequent reports filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission before making any investment decision with respect to our securities. If any of the following trends, risks or uncertainties actually occurs or continues, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected, the trading prices of our securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. All forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by this cautionary statement. 16 Table of Contents Trends, Risks and Uncertainties Related to Our Business We have experienced declines in revenues and operating losses, and we may experience additional declines in revenues and operating losses in the future. Our historical financial results have been, and our future financial results are anticipated to be, subject to substantial fluctuations. Our revenues for 2005 were $1,260.6 million, compared to $1,266.9 million for 2004 and $1,069.1 million for 2003. We reported net income of $100.6 million in 2005 and incurred net losses of $123.7 million in 2004 and $166.7 million in 2003. Reduced end-user demand, price declines, excess inventory, underutilization of our manufacturing capacity and other factors could adversely affect our business, and we may experience declines in revenue and operating losses in the future. In order to remain profitable, we must continue to successfully implement our business plan, including our cost reduction initiatives. However, we also currently face an environment of uncertain demand and pricing pressure in the markets our products address. We cannot assure you that we will be able to sustain our recent profitability. We operate in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry, which is subject to significant downturns. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical. The industry has experienced significant downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles (for semiconductors and for the end-user products in which they are used) and declines in general economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. We have experienced these conditions in our business in the past and may experience such downturns in the future. The most recent downturn, which began in the fourth quarter of 2000, was severe and prolonged, and it is uncertain whether recent improvements in semiconductor industry performance will continue or whether such improvements will benefit us to the same extent as they benefit other industry participants. Future downturns in the semiconductor industry may also be severe and prolonged. Future downturns in the semiconductor industry, or any failure of the industry to fully recover from its recent downturn, could seriously impact our revenues and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. During the 1990s and continuing into 2000, the semiconductor industry enjoyed unprecedented growth, benefiting from the rapid expansion of the internet and other computing and communications technologies. During 2001, we — like many of our customers and competitors — were adversely affected by a general economic slowdown and an abrupt decline in demand for many of the end-user products that incorporate our integrated circuits and standard semiconductors. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 also further depressed economic activity and demand for end-user products. The impact of slowing end-customer demand was compounded by higher than normal levels of equipment and component inventories among our original equipment manufacturer, subcontractor and distributor customers, resulting in increasing pricing pressure. We expect that factors including, but not limited to, economic uncertainty and downturns relating to the threat or actual occurrence of armed international conflict or terrorist attacks, reduced demand for end-user products, underutilization of our manufacturing capacity and changes in our revenue mix could adversely impact our operating results in the near term. Our gross profit is dependent on a number of factors, including our level of capacity utilization. Semiconductor manufacturing requires significant capital investment, leading to high fixed costs, including depreciation expense. If we are unable to utilize our manufacturing and testing facilities at a high level, the fixed costs associated with these facilities will not be fully absorbed, resulting in higher average unit costs and lower gross profits. As a percentage of revenues, gross profit was 33.2% for 2005, compared to 32.4% for 2004 and 28.1% for 2003. Gross profit improved in 2004 and 2005, in each case as a result of increased sales volume and cost savings from our profitability enhancement programs. Increased competition and other factors may lead to further price erosion, lower revenues and lower margins for us in the future. 17 Table of Contents The failure to implement, as well as the completion and impact of, our profitability enhancement programs and cost reductions could adversely affect our business. Between 2000 and the end of 2005, we implemented a number of cost reduction initiatives in response to the significant downturn in our industry. These initiatives have included accelerating our manufacturing moves into lower cost regions, transitioning higher-cost external supply to internal manufacturing, working with our material suppliers to further lower costs, personnel reductions, reductions in employee compensation, temporary shutdowns of facilities with mandatory vacation and aggressively streamlining our overhead. However, we cannot assure you that these cost reduction initiatives will, in and of themselves, help us sustain our profitability. We recorded restructuring charges of $3.3 million in 2005, $19.6 million in 2004 and $61.2 million in 2003 to cover costs associated with our cost reduction initiatives. These costs were primarily comprised of employee separation costs and asset impairments. The impact of these restructuring actions on our ability to compete effectively is subject to risks and uncertainties. Because our restructuring activities involve changes to many aspects of our business, the cost reductions could adversely impact productivity and sales to an extent we have not anticipated. Even if we fully execute and implement these activities and they generate the anticipated cost savings, there may be other unforeseeable factors that could adversely impact our profitability and business. If we are unable to implement our business strategy, our revenues and profitability may be adversely affected. Our future financial performance and success are largely dependent on our ability to implement our business strategy successfully. Our present business strategy to build upon our position as a global supplier of power and data management semiconductors and standard semiconductor components includes, without limitation, plans to: (1) continue to aggresively manage, maintain and refine our product portfolio; (2) continue to develop leading edge customer support services; (3) expand further our just-in-time delivery capabilities; (4) increase our die manufacturing capacity in a cost-effective manner; (5) reduce further the number of our product platforms and process flows; (6) rationalize our manufacturing operations; (7) relocate manufacturing operations or outsource to lower cost regions; (8) reduce selling and administrative expenses; (9) manage capital expenditures to forecasted production demands; (10) actively manage working capital; (11) develop new products in a more efficient manner; and (12) focus on the development of power management and standard analog and high frequency clock and data management products. We cannot assure you that we will successfully implement our business strategy or that implementing our strategy will sustain or improve our results of operations. In particular, we cannot assure you that we will be able to build our position in markets with high growth potential, increase our volume or revenue, rationalize our manufacturing operations or reduce our costs and expenses. Our business strategy is based on our assumptions about the future demand for our current products and the new products and applications that we are developing and on our ability to produce our products profitably. Each of these factors depends on our ability, among other things, to finance our operating and product development activities, maintain high quality and efficient manufacturing operations, relocate and close manufacturing facilities and reduce operating expenses as part of our ongoing cost restructuring with minimal disruption to our operations, access quality raw materials and contract manufacturing services in a cost-effective and timely manner, protect our intellectual property portfolio and attract and retain highly-skilled technical, managerial, marketing and finance personnel. Several of these and other factors that could affect our ability to implement our business strategy, such as risks associated with international operations, the threat or occurrence of armed international conflict and terrorist activities, increased competition, legal developments and general economic conditions, are beyond our control. In addition, circumstances beyond our control and changes in our business or industry may require us to change our business strategy. We may require additional capital in the future, and additional funds may not be available on terms acceptable to us. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, together with the cash that we expect to generate from our operations and sales of assets in the ordinary course of business, will be sufficient to meet our planned 18 Table of Contents capital needs for the next 12 months. However, it is possible that we may need to raise additional capital to fund our future activities or to consummate acquisitions of other businesses, products or technologies. As of February 10, 2006, we had $13.6 million of borrowing capacity available under our revolving credit facility. Subject to the restrictions contained in our senior bank facilities, we may be able to raise these funds by selling securities to the public or selected investors, or by borrowing money. We may not be able to obtain additional funds on favorable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to curtail our operations significantly, reduce planned capital expenditures and research and development, make selective dispositions of our assets or obtain funds through arrangements with strategic partners or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain technologies or potential markets, or otherwise impair our ability to remain competitive. We may be unable to make the substantial research and development investments required to remain competitive in our business. The semiconductor industry requires substantial investment in research and development in order to develop and bring to market new and enhanced technologies and products. We are committed to maintaining spending on new product development in order to stay competitive in our markets. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources to maintain the level of investment in research and development that is required to remain competitive. Uncertainties involving the ordering and shipment of, and payment for, our products could adversely affect our business. Our sales are typically made pursuant to individual purchase orders or customer agreements and we generally do not have long-term supply arrangements with our customers. Generally, our customers may cancel orders 30 days prior to shipment without incurring a significant penalty. We routinely purchase inventory based on customers’ estimates of demand for their products, which is difficult to predict. This difficulty may be compounded when we sell to original equipment manufacturers indirectly through distributors or contract manufacturers, or both, as our forecasts for demand are then based on estimates provided by multiple parties. In addition, our customers may change their inventory practices on short notice for any reason. The cancellation or deferral of product orders, the return of previously sold products or overproduction due to failure of anticipated orders to materialize could result in excess obsolete inventory, which could result in write-downs of inventory or the incurrence of significant cancellation penalties under our arrangements with our raw materials and equipment suppliers. During various periods in 2003, 2004 and 2005, short customer lead times prevailed given the overcapacity in the industry. These and other factors adversely affected our revenues during these periods. An inability to introduce new products could adversely affect us, and changing technologies or consumption patterns could reduce the demand for our products. Rapidly changing technologies and industry standards, along with frequent new product introductions, characterize the industries that are currently the primary end-users of semiconductors. As these industries evolve and introduce new products, our success will depend on our ability to predict and adapt to these changes in a timely and cost-effective manner by designing, developing, manufacturing, marketing and providing customer support for our own new products and technologies. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify changes in the product markets and requirements of our customers and end-users and adapt to such changes in a timely and cost-effective manner. Nor can we assure you that products or technologies that may be developed in the future by our competitors and others will not render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. A fundamental shift in technologies or consumption patterns in our existing product markets or the product markets of our customers or end-users could have a material adverse effect on our business or prospects. 19 Table of Contents Competition in our industry could prevent us from maintaining our revenues and from raising prices to offset increases in costs. The semiconductor industry, particularly the market for semiconductor components, is highly competitive. As a result of the recent economic downturn, competition in the markets in which we operate has intensified as manufacturers of semiconductor components have offered reduced prices in order to combat production overcapacity and high inventory levels. Although only a few companies compete with us in all of our product lines, we face significant competition within each of our product lines from major international semiconductor companies as well as smaller companies focused on specific market niches. In addition, companies not currently in direct competition with us may introduce competing products in the future. The semiconductor components industry has also been undergoing significant restructuring and consolidations that could adversely affect our competitiveness. Many of our competitors may have certain advantages over us, including substantially greater financial and other resources with which to withstand adverse economic or market conditions and pursue development, engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products; longer independent operating histories and presence in key markets; patent protection and greater name recognition. Because our components are often building block semiconductors that in some cases can be integrated into more complex integrated circuits, we also face competition from manufacturers of integrated circuits, application-specific integrated circuits and fully customized integrated circuits, as well as customers who develop their own integrated circuit products. We compete in different product lines to various degrees on the basis of price, quality, technical performance, product features, product system compatibility, customized design, strategic relationships with customers, new product innovation, availability, delivery timing and reliability and customer sales and technical support. Gross margins in the industry vary by geographic region depending on local demand for the products in which semiconductors are used, such as personal computers, industrial and telecommunications equipment, consumer electronics and automotive goods. Our ability to compete successfully depends on elements both within and outside of our control, including industry and general economic trends. Unless we maintain manufacturing efficiency, our future profitability could be adversely affected. Manufacturing semiconductor components involves highly complex processes that require advanced equipment. We and our competitors continuously modify these processes in an effort to improve yields and product performance. Impurities or other difficulties in the manufacturing process can lower yields. Our manufacturing efficiency will be an important factor in our future profitability, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our manufacturing efficiency or increase manufacturing efficiency to the same extent as our competitors. From time to time, we have experienced difficulty in beginning production at new facilities, transferring production to other facilities or in effecting transitions to new manufacturing processes that have caused us to suffer delays in product deliveries or reduced yields. We cannot assure you that we will not experience manufacturing problems in achieving acceptable yields or experience product delivery delays in the future as a result of, among other things, capacity constraints, construction delays, transferring production to other facilities, upgrading or expanding existing facilities or changing our process technologies, any of which could result in a loss of future revenues. Our results of operations could also be adversely affected by the increase in fixed costs and operating expenses related to increases in production capacity if revenues do not increase proportionately. We could be required to incur significant capital expenditures for manufacturing and information technology and equipment to remain competitive, the failure, inadequacy or delayed implementation of which could harm our ability to effectively operate our business. Our capital expenditures were $46.1 million in 2005, $81.8 million in 2004 and $59.8 million in 2003. We may be required to increase our future capital expenditures to meet increased demand. 20 Table of Contents Semiconductor manufacturing has historically required, and in the future is likely to continue to require, a constant upgrading of process technology to remain competitive, as new and enhanced semiconductor processes are developed which permit smaller, more efficient and more powerful semiconductor devices. We maintain certain of our own manufacturing, assembly and test facilities, which have required and will continue to require significant investments in manufacturing technology and equipment. We have made substantial capital expenditures and installed significant production capacity to support new technologies and increased production volume. We also may incur significant costs to implement new manufacturing and information technologies to increase our productivity and efficiency. Any such implementation, however, can be negatively impacted by failures or inadequacies of the new manufacturing or information technology and unforeseen delays in its implementation, any of which may require us to spend additional resources to correct these problems or, in some instances, to conclude that the new technology implementation should be abandoned. In the case of abandonment, we may have to recognize losses for amounts previously expended in connection with such implementation that have been capitalized on our balance sheet. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient capital resources to make necessary investments in manufacturing or information technology and equipment. In addition, our principal credit agreement limits the amount of our capital expenditures. If we were to lose one of our large customers or if the existing downturn in the automotive market persists or deepens, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. Product sales to our ten largest customers accounted in the aggregate for approximately 55%, 54% and 54% of our total revenues in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Many of our customers operate in cyclical industries, and in the past we have experienced significant fluctuations from period to period in the volume of our products ordered. Generally, our agreements with our customers impose no minimum or continuing obligations to purchase our products. We cannot assure you that any of our customers will not significantly reduce orders or seek price reductions in the future or that the loss of one or more of our customers would not have a material adverse effect on our business or prospects. In 2005, approximately 19% of our total revenues were attributable to our various automotive customers. Certain of these automotive customers have been experiencing a downturn in their business, in part due to labor difficulties. On October 8, 2005, Delphi Corporation, one of our automotive customers, and certain of its U.S. subsidiaries commenced reorganization proceedings under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Federal Bankruptcy Code. In 2005, our sales to Delphi accounted for less than 3% of our total annual revenues and approximately $5.4 million of our receivables due from Delphi are subject to collection pending resolution of the reorganization proceedings. There can be no assurance that other automotive customers will not also enter into reorganization proceedings or declare bankruptcy. We may have to change our revenue recognition practices from an accrual basis to a cash basis for these customers if the collection of accounts receivable from them is not reasonably assured, which would have an adverse impact on our profitability. The loss of our sources of raw materials or manufacturing services, or increases in the prices of such goods or services, could adversely affect our operations and productivity. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials in a timely manner or if the costs of our raw materials increase significantly or their quality deteriorates. Our manufacturing processes rely on many raw materials, including silicon wafers, copper lead frames, mold compound, ceramic packages and various chemicals and gases. Generally, our agreements with suppliers impose no minimum or continuing supply obligations, and we obtain our raw materials and supplies from a large number of sources on a just-in-time basis. From time to time, suppliers may extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. Although we believe that our current supplies of raw materials are adequate, shortages could occur in various essential materials due to interruption of supply or increased demand in the industry. 21 Table of Contents In addition, for some of our products, such as our Silicon Germanium (SiGe) technology, we are dependent upon a limited number of highly specialized suppliers for required components and materials. The number of qualified alternative suppliers for these kinds of technologies is extremely limited. We cannot assure you that we will not lose our suppliers for these key technologies or that our suppliers will be able to meet performance and quality specifications or delivery schedules. Disruption or termination of our limited supply sources for these components and materials could delay our shipments of products utilizing these technologies and damage relationships with current and prospective customers. We also use third-party contractors for some of our manufacturing activities, primarily for wafer fabrication and the assembly and testing of final goods. These contract manufacturers, including AIT, ASE, KEC, MagnaChip, Phenitec and PSI, accounted for approximately 25%, 28% and 26% of our manufacturing costs in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Our agreements with these manufacturers typically require us to forecast product needs and commit to purchase services consistent with these forecasts, and in some cases require longer-term commitments in the early stages of the relationship. Our operations could be adversely affected if these contractual relationships were disrupted or terminated, the cost of such services increased significantly, the quality of the services provided deteriorated or our forecasts proved to be materially incorrect. Acquisitions and strategic alliances may harm our operating results or cause us to incur debt or assume contingent liabilities or dilute our stockholders. We may in the future acquire and form strategic alliances relating to other businesses, products and technologies. Successful acquisitions and alliances in the semiconductor industry are difficult to accomplish because they require, among other things, efficient integration and aligning of product offerings and manufacturing operations and coordination of sales and marketing and research and development efforts. The difficulties of integration and alignment may be increased by the necessity of coordinating geographically separated organizations, the complexity of the technologies being integrated and aligned and the necessity of integrating personnel with disparate business backgrounds and combining different corporate cultures. The integration and alignment of operations following an acquisition or alliance requires the dedication of management resources that may distract attention from the day-to-day business, and may disrupt key research and development, marketing or sales efforts. In addition, we may issue equity securities to pay for future acquisitions or alliances, which could be dilutive to existing stockholders. We may also incur debt or assume contingent liabilities in connection with acquisitions and alliances, which could harm our operating results. Without strategic acquisitions and alliances we may have difficulty meeting future customer product and service requirements. Our international operations subject us to risks inherent in doing business on an international level that could adversely impact our results of operations. Approximately 24%, 60% and 16% of our revenues in 2005, approximately 28%, 56% and 16% of our revenues in 2004 and approximately 30%, 52% and 18% of our revenues in 2003 were derived from the Americas, the Asia/Pacific region and Europe (including the Middle East), respectively. We maintain significant operations in Seremban, Malaysia; Carmona, the Philippines; Aizu, Japan; Leshan, China; Roznov, the Czech Republic; and Piestany, the Slovak Republic. In addition, we rely on a number of contract manufacturers whose operations are primarily located in the Asia/Pacific region. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in overcoming the risks that relate to or arise from operating in international markets. Risks inherent in doing business on an international level include, among others, the following: • economic and political instability (including as a result of the threat or occurrence of armed international conflict or terrorist attacks); • changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs, customs, duties and other trade barriers; • transportation delays; 22 Table of Contents • power supply shortages and shutdowns; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and other labor problems; • currency convertibility and repatriation; • taxation of our earnings and the earnings of our personnel; and • other risks relating to the administration of or changes in, or new interpretations of, the laws, regulations and policies of the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business. Our activities outside the United States are subject to additional risks associated with fluctuating currency values and exchange rates, hard currency shortages and controls on currency exchange. While our sales are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars, worldwide semiconductor pricing is influenced by currency rate fluctuations. If we fail to attract and retain highly-skilled personnel, our results of operations and competitive position could deteriorate. Our success depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly-skilled technical, managerial, marketing and finance personnel. The market for personnel with such qualifications is highly competitive. For example, analog component designers are difficult to attract and retain, and the failure to attract and retain analog component designers could compromise our ability to keep pace with our competitors in the market for analog components. We have not entered into employment agreements with all of our key personnel. As employee incentives, we issue common stock options that generally have exercise prices at the market value at time of the grant and that are subject to vesting. At times, our stock price has declined substantially, reducing the effectiveness of these incentives. Loss of the services of, or failure to effectively recruit, qualified personnel, including senior managers and design engineers, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Changes in stock option accounting rules may adversely impact our results of operations prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, our stock price and our competitiveness in the employee marketplace. Technology companies like ours have a history of using broad-based employee stock option programs to hire, incentivize and retain our workforce in a competitive marketplace. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,” allowed companies the choice of either using a fair value method of accounting for options, which would result in expense recognition for all options granted, or using an intrinsic value method, as prescribed by Accounting Principles Board Opinion (“APB”) No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,” with a pro forma disclosure of the impact on net income (loss) of using the fair value recognition method. We have elected to apply APB 25 and accordingly, we generally do not recognize any expense with respect to employee stock options as long as such options are granted at exercise prices equal to the fair value of our common stock on the date of grant. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 123R, “Share-Based Payment,” which replaces SFAS No. 123 and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25. Under SFAS No. 123R, companies are required to measure the compensation costs of share-based compensation arrangements based on the grant-date fair value and recognize the costs in the financial statements over the period during which employees are required to provide services. The guidance provides that employee stock options and employee stock purchase plan shares are included within the term “share-based compensation arrangements.” Public companies will be required to apply SFAS No. 123R as of the first annual reporting period beginning after June 15, 2005. The cumulative effect of initially applying SFAS No. 123R, if any, is recognized as of the required effective date. We plan to adopt SFAS No. 123R using the modified prospective application method as defined by SFAS No. 123R and accordingly will begin recognizing compensation expense in the first quarter of 2006. In light of our anticipated adoption of FAS 123R, we and our compensation committee are re-evaluating our current incentive compensation strategies. Based on this re-evaluation, we may make changes to our policies and procedures regarding equity-based 23 Table of Contents compensation. The adoption of SFAS No. 123R beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 will have an adverse impact on our results of operations as we will be required to expense the fair value of our share-based compensation arrangements rather than disclosing the impact on results of operations within our footnotes in accordance with the disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 123. This could negatively impact our future common stock price. In addition, this could impact our ability to utilize broad-based employee stock plans to reward employees and could result in a competitive disadvantage to us in the employee marketplace. We use a significant amount of intellectual property in our business. Some of that intellectual property is currently subject to disputes with third parties, and litigation could arise in the future. If we are unable to protect the intellectual property we use, our business could be adversely affected. We rely on patents, trade secrets, trademarks, mask works and copyrights to protect our products and technologies. Some of our products and technologies are not covered by any patents or pending patent applications and we cannot assure you that: • any of the substantial number of U.S. and foreign patents and pending patent applications that we employ in our business, including those that Motorola assigned, licensed or sublicensed to us in connection with our 1999 recapitalization, will not lapse or be invalidated, circumvented, challenged, abandoned or licensed to others; • the license rights granted by Motorola in connection with our recapitalization will provide competitive advantages to us; • any of our pending or future patent applications will be issued or have the coverage originally sought; • any of the trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, know-how or mask works that Motorola has assigned, licensed or sublicensed to us in connection with our recapitalization will not lapse or be invalidated, circumvented, challenged, abandoned or licensed to others; or • any of our pending or future trademark, copyright, or mask work applications will be issued or have the coverage originally sought. In addition, our competitors or others may develop products or technologies that are similar or superior to our products or technologies, duplicate our products or technologies or design around our protected technologies. Effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable, limited or not applied for in the United States and in foreign countries. Also, we may from time to time in the future be notified of claims that we may be infringing third-party patents or other intellectual property rights. If necessary or desirable, we may seek licenses under such patents or intellectual property rights. However, we cannot assure you that we will obtain such licenses or that the terms of any offered licenses will be acceptable to us. The failure to obtain a license from a third party for technologies we use could cause us to incur substantial liabilities or to suspend the manufacture or shipment of products or our use of processes requiring the technologies. Litigation could cause us to incur significant expense, by adversely affecting sales of the challenged product or technologies and diverting the efforts of our technical and management personnel, whether or not such litigation is resolved in our favor. In the event of an adverse outcome in any such litigation, we may be required to: • pay substantial damages; • cease the manufacture, use, sale or importation of infringing products; • expend significant resources to develop or acquire non-infringing technologies; • discontinue the use of processes; or • obtain licenses to the infringing technologies. 24 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that we would be successful in any such development or acquisition or that any such licenses would be available to us on reasonable terms. Any such development, acquisition or license could require the expenditure of substantial time and other resources. We will also seek to protect our proprietary technologies, including technologies that may not be patented or patentable, in part by confidentiality agreements and, if applicable, inventors’ rights agreements with our collaborators, advisors, employees and consultants. We cannot assure you that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach or that persons or institutions will not assert rights to intellectual property arising out of our research. We are party to securities class action litigation which may be costly to defend and the outcome of which is uncertain. In July 2001, three stockholder class action lawsuits were filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York against us, certain of our former officers, current and former directors and various investment banking firms who acted as underwriters in connection with our initial public offering in May 2000. In April 2002, the plaintiffs filed a consolidated, amended complaint that supercedes the individual complaints originally filed. The amended complaint generally alleges that our offering documents failed to disclose certain underwriting fees and commissions and underwriter tie-ins and other arrangements with certain customers of the underwriters that impacted the price of our common stock in the after-market. The plaintiffs are seeking unspecified damages. On July 15, 2002, together with other issuer defendants, we filed a collective motion to dismiss the class action lawsuit. On February 19, 2003, the Court dismissed claims brought against us under the antifraud provisions of the securities laws with prejudice. However, the Court denied the motion to dismiss claims brought under the registration provisions of the securities laws. In addition, the parties have stipulated to the voluntary dismissal without prejudice of claims brought against the current and former directors and officers who were named as individual defendants in the litigation. In June 2003, upon the determination of a special independent committee of our Board of Directors, we elected to participate in a proposed settlement with the plaintiffs in this litigation. Consummation of the proposed settlement is conditioned upon obtaining approval by the Court. On September 1, 2005, the Court preliminarily approved the proposed settlement, directed that notice of the terms of the proposed settlement be provided to class members and scheduled a fairness hearing, at which objections to the proposed settlement will be heard. Thereafter, the Court will determine whether to grant final approval to the proposed settlement. If this proposed settlement is ultimately approved by the Court, it would result in a dismissal, with prejudice, of all claims in the litigation against us and against any of the other issuer defendants who elect to participate in the proposed settlement, together with the current or former officers and directors of participating issuers who were named as individual defendants. We can provide no assurance as to the outcome of this securities litigation. Any conclusion of this litigation in a manner adverse to us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, the cost to us of defending the litigation, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Such litigation could also substantially divert the attention of our management and our resources in general. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of this litigation could harm our ability to compete in the marketplace. Because the price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile, we can provide no assurance that additional securities litigation will not be filed against us in the future. We are subject to litigation risks. All industries, including the semiconductor industry, are subject to legal claims, with and without merit. We are involved in a variety of routine legal matters that arise in the normal course of business. These matters typically fall into the following broad categories: those involving suppliers and customers, employment and labor, and intellectual property. We believe it is unlikely that the final outcome of these legal claims will have a 25 Table of Contents material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. However, defense and settlement costs can be substantial, even with respect to claims that have no merit. Due to the inherent uncertainty of the litigation process, the resolution of any particular legal claim or proceeding could have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We are exposed to increased costs and risks associated with complying with increasing and new regulation of corporate governance and disclosure standards including Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We are spending a significant amount of management time and external resources to comply with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 which requires management’s annual review and evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and attestations of the effectiveness of these systems by our management and by our independent registered public accounting firm. We have completed this Section 404 process for 2005, and in doing so we were required to hire additional personnel and use outside advisory services and as a result we incurred additional accounting and legal expenses. We believe that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2005; however, if in the future our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer or independent registered public accounting firm determines that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective as specified by applicable SEC rules and regulations and/or other applicable standards, our ability to publish accurate financial statements on a timely basis could be jeopardized and our common stock price and our business could be affected in a material adverse manner. We do not expect that our internal control over financial reporting and more broadly our disclosure controls and procedures will prevent and/or detect all errors and all fraud. Nevertheless, our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives. That being said, a control procedure, no matter how well designed and operated can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that objectives of the control procedure are met. Because of the inherent limitations in all control procedures, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within our company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods has risks, and breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the control. Because of its inherent limitations, disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Further, these sorts of controls and procedures must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within a company have been detected. See Part II, Item 9A “Controls and Procedures” of this report for information on disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. Environmental and other regulatory matters could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business and could require expenditures that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our manufacturing operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations relating to the management, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances and the emission and discharge of pollutants into the air and water. Our operations are also subject to laws and regulations relating to workplace safety and worker health, which, among other things, regulate employee exposure to hazardous substances. Motorola has agreed to indemnify us for environmental and health and safety liabilities related to the conduct or operations of our business or Motorola’s ownership, occupancy or use of real property occurring prior to the closing of our 1999 recapitalization. We also have purchased environmental insurance to cover certain claims related to historical contamination and future releases of hazardous substances. However, we cannot assure you that such 26 Table of Contents indemnification arrangements and insurance policy will cover all material environmental costs. In addition, the nature of our operations exposes us to the continuing risk of environmental and health and safety liabilities related to events or activities occurring after our recapitalization. Based on information currently available to us, we believe that the future cost of compliance with existing environmental and health and safety laws and regulations, and any liability for currently known environmental conditions, will not have a material adverse effect on our business or prospects. However, we cannot predict: • changes in environmental or health and safety laws or regulations; • the manner in which environmental or health and safety laws or regulations will be enforced, administered or interpreted; • our ability to enforce and collect under indemnity agreements and insurance policies relating to environmental liabilities; or • the cost of compliance with future environmental or health and safety laws or regulations or the costs associated with any future environmental claims, including the cost of clean-up of currently unknown environmental conditions. Terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred in New York and Washington D.C. on September 11, 2001, or threats or occurrences of international armed conflict or other terrorist activities both in the United States and internationally may affect the markets in which our common stock trades, the markets in which we operate and our profitability. On September 11, 2001 the United States was the target of terrorist attacks of unprecedented scope. The threat or occurrences of international armed conflict or other terrorist activities both in the United States and internationally may affect the markets in which our common stock trades, the market in which we operate and our profitability. The terrorist attacks have caused instability in the global financial markets and future or threatened terrorist attacks or occurrences of international armed conflict could result in greater economic instability. Warranty claims, product liability claims and product recalls could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to warranty and product liability claims in the event that our products fail to perform as expected or such failure of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury or property damage (or both). In addition, if any of our designed products are or are alleged to be defective, we may be required to participate in their recall. As suppliers become more integrally involved in the electrical design, original equipment manufacturers are increasingly expecting them to warrant their products and are increasingly looking to them for contributions when faced with product liability claims or recalls. A successful warranty or product liability claim against us in excess of our available insurance coverage and established reserves, or a requirement that we participate in a product recall, would have adverse effects (that could be material) on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Trends, Risks and Uncertainties Relating to Our Indebtedness Our substantial debt could impair our financial condition and adversely affect our ability to operate our business. We are highly leveraged and have substantial debt service obligations. As of December 31, 2005, we had total long-term indebtedness of $1,067.0 million (including current maturities, but excluding unused commitments) and interest expense of $61.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. Also, we may incur additional debt in the future, subject to certain limitations contained in our debt instruments. 27 Table of Contents The degree to which we are leveraged could have important consequences to you, including: • our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes may be impaired; • a significant portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of interest and principal on our debt, which reduces the funds available to us for our operations; • some of our debt is and will continue to be at variable rates of interest, which may result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in market interest rates; • our debt agreements contain, and any agreements to refinance our debt likely will contain, financial and restrictive covenants, and our failure to comply with them may result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us; • our level of indebtedness will increase our vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse industry conditions; • our debt service obligations could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the semiconductor industry; and • our substantial leverage could place us at a competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis our competitors who have less leverage relative to their overall capital structures. We may incur more debt, which could exacerbate the risks described above. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The agreements relating to our outstanding indebtedness restrict us from incurring additional indebtedness, but do not fully prohibit us or our subsidiaries from doing so. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the related risks that we and they now face could intensify. Some of the debt we may incur may be secured by the same collateral securing certain of our existing indebtedness. The agreements relating to our indebtedness may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take some actions. Our debt agreements contain, and any future debt agreements may include, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on, among other things, our ability to: • incur additional debt, including guarantees; • incur liens; • sell or otherwise dispose of assets; • make investments, loans or advances; • make some acquisitions; • engage in mergers or consolidations; • make capital expenditures; • pay dividends, redeem capital stock or make certain other restricted payments or investments; • pay dividends from Semiconductor Components Industries, LLC to ON Semiconductor Corporation; • engage in sale and leaseback transactions; • enter into new lines of business; • issue some types of preferred stock; and • enter into transactions with our affiliates. 28 Table of Contents In addition, our senior bank facilities require that we maintain or achieve a minimum consolidated EBITDA (as defined therein). Any future debt could contain financial and other covenants more restrictive than those that are currently applicable. Our failure to comply with the agreements relating to our outstanding indebtedness, including as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default that could materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition. If there were an event of default under any of the agreements relating to our outstanding indebtedness the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be due and payable immediately. We cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments, either upon maturity or if accelerated upon an event of default or, if we were required to repurchase any of our debt securities upon a change of control, that we would be able to refinance or restructure the payments on those debt securities. Further, if we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness under our secured debt, the holders of such debt could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. In addition, any event of default or declaration of acceleration under one debt instrument could also result in an event of default under one or more of our other debt instruments. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service obligations. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to make scheduled payments on our debt obligations will depend on our future financial performance, which will be affected by a range of economic, competitive and business factors, many of which are outside of our control. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and proceeds from sales of assets in the ordinary course of business to satisfy our debt obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our debt, selling additional assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or seeking to raise additional capital. The terms of our financing agreements contain limitations on our ability to incur additional indebtedness. As of February 10, 2006, we had $13.6 million of borrowing capacity available under our revolving credit facility. On January 9, 2003, we amended our primary foreign exchange hedging agreement to provide for termination if at any time the amount available under our revolving credit facility is less than $2.5 million. We cannot assure you that any refinancing would be possible, that any assets could be sold, or, if sold, of the timing of the sales and the amount of proceeds realized from those sales, or that additional financing could be obtained on acceptable terms, if at all, or would be permitted under the terms of our various debt instruments then in effect. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms, would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as on our ability to satisfy our debt obligations. Trends, Risks and Uncertainties Relating to Our Common Stock Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results may cause our stock price to decline. Given the nature of the markets in which we participate, we cannot reliably predict future revenues and profitability, and unexpected changes may cause us to adjust our operations. A large portion of our costs are fixed, due in part to our significant sales, research and development and manufacturing costs. Thus, small declines in revenues could negatively affect our operating results in any given quarter. Factors that could affect our quarterly operating results include: • the timing and size of orders from our customers, including cancellations and reschedulings; • the timing of introduction of new products; • the gain or loss of significant customers, including as a result of industry consolidation; • seasonality in some of our target markets; • changes in the mix of products we sell; 29 Table of Contents • changes in demand by the end-users of our customers’ products; • market acceptance of our current and future products; • variability of our customers’ product life cycles; • changes in manufacturing yields or other factors affecting the cost of goods sold, such as the cost and availability of raw materials and the extent of utilization of manufacturing capacity; • changes in the prices of our products, which can be affected by the level of our customers’ and end-users’ demand, technological change, product obsolescence, competition or other factors; • cancellations, changes or delays of deliveries to us by our third-party manufacturers, including as a result of the availability of manufacturing capacity and the proposed terms of manufacturing arrangements; • our liquidity and access to capital; and • our research and development activities and the funding thereof. Our stock price may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors in our securities. The stock markets in general, and the markets for high technology stocks in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. The market price of the common stock may also fluctuate significantly in response to the following factors, some of which are beyond our control: • variations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, capital commitments, new products or product enhancements; • loss of a major customer or failure to complete significant transactions; and • additions or departures of key personnel. The trading price of our common stock since our initial public offering has ranged from a high of $27.75 on the Nasdaq National Market on May 1, 2000 to a low of $0.89 on October 4, 2002. The last reported price of our common stock on February 10, 2006 was $6.72 per share. TPG, as our principal stockholder, controls our company, which will limit the ability of our other stockholders to influence the outcome of director elections and other matters submitted for a vote of the stockholders. On November 10, 2005, TPG ON Holdings LLC, an affiliate of Texas Pacific Group, our largest shareholder, converted its Series A cumulative preferred stock into approximately 49 million shares of common stock. We agreed to issue to TPG ON Holdings LLC inducement shares upon conversion representing an 8% share premium of approximately 4 million shares of our common stock. After the conversion of the preferred stock into common stock and the payment of the inducement shares, Texas Pacific Group and its affiliates’ beneficial ownership of the Company’s common stock equaled approximately 165.2 million shares. As of February 10, 2006, these shares represented 52.9% of the total voting power of our common stock. As a result, Texas Pacific Group, through its affiliates, is able to: • elect all of our directors and, as a result, control matters requiring board approval; 30 Table of Contents • control matters submitted to a stockholder vote, including mergers and consolidations with third parties and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets; and • otherwise control or influence our business direction and policies. In addition, our certificate of incorporation provides that the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which relate to business combinations with interested stockholders, do not apply to us. Provisions in our charter documents may delay or prevent the acquisition of our company, which could decrease the value of our stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it harder for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions: • create a board of directors with staggered terms; • permit only our board of directors or the chairman on our board of directors to call special meetings of stockholders; • establish advance notice requirements for submitting nominations for election to the board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at a meeting; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent; • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock, which is preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede a takeover attempt and that our board of directors can create and issue without prior stockholder approval; and • require the approval by holders of at least 66 2/3% of our outstanding common stock to amend any of these provisions in our certificate of incorporation or bylaws. Although we believe these provisions make a higher third-party bid more likely by requiring potential acquirors to negotiate with our board of directors, these provisions apply even if an initial offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None that meet the criteria of this item. 