Item 1A. Risk Factors Our future operating results may vary substantially from period to period. The price of our common stock will fluctuate in the future, and an investment in our common stock is subject to a variety of risks, including, but not limited to, the specific risks identified below. Inevitably, some investors in our securities will experience gains while others will experience losses depending on the prices at which they purchase and sell our securities. Prospective and existing investors should consider the following factors in evaluating our business or an investment in our securities. If any of the following or other risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Our business and operating results may be adversely affected by our proposed acquisition by Verint. On February 11, 2007, we signed an Agreement and Plan of Merger with Verint. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, a wholly owned subsidiary of Verint will merge with and into Witness Systems, Witness Systems will become a wholly owned subsidiary of Verint, and each outstanding share of our common stock will be exchanged for the right to receive $27.50 in cash, less any applicable withholding taxes and without interest. The Merger is subject to several conditions, including approval by our stockholders, the expiration of applicable waiting periods under antitrust laws and certain other regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. We have made customary representations and warranties and covenants in the Merger Agreement, including covenants relating to obtaining the requisite approval of the Company’s stockholders and the conduct of our business between the date of the signing of the Merger Agreement and the closing of the Merger. We anticipate that the Merger will be consummated in the second quarter of 2007. The announcement of the Merger could have an adverse effect on our revenue if customers delay, defer or cancel purchases pending consummation of the planned Merger. Current and prospective customers could be reluctant to purchase our products and services due to potential uncertainty about the combined company’s product offerings and its support and servicing of our existing products. If our announcement of the Merger causes our customers to delay purchase decisions pending consummation of the planned Merger, our business and operating results could be materially adversely affected. The uncertainty surrounding the proposed Merger may also cause employee turnover or impair our ability to add new employees to the company. Any significant employee turnover or delays in hiring forecasted positions could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. If our planned acquisition by Verint is not completed, our business, operating results and stock price may be adversely affected. If the planned Merger with Verint is not completed, we could suffer a number of consequences that could adversely affect our business, operating results and stock price, including the following: · the market price of our common stock could decline following an announcement that the Merger has been abandoned, to the extent that the current market price reflects a market assumption that the Merger will be completed; · we could, under certain circumstances, be required to pay Verint a termination fee of approximately $35.5 million; · we would remain liable for our costs related to the transaction, such as legal, accounting and certain investment banking fees, and we expect these costs to be significant; and · activities relating to the Merger may divert our management’s attention from our business and cause disruptions among our employees and our relationships with customers and business partners, 10 thus detracting from our ability to grow revenue and minimize costs and possibly leading to a loss of revenue and market position that we may not be able to regain if the transaction does not occur. Our operating results for 2001 to 2004 have been adversely impacted by the results of the voluntary review of our stock option practices and grants. In connection with our recent stock options review, we restated our Consolidated Financial Statements for each of the years ended December 31, 2001 through December 31, 2005, and for the first quarter of 2006. Accordingly, you should not rely on financial information included in the reports on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K previously filed by us, the related opinions of our independent registered public accounting firm, earnings press releases and similar communications issued by us, for periods ended on or before March 31, 2006, all of which have been superseded in their entirety by the information contained in our 2005 Form 10-K/A and our amended Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q/A for the three months ended March 31, 2006, each filed on February 8, 2007. Based on the results of the stock option review, we concluded that, pursuant to Accounting Principles Board (“APB”) No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and related interpretations, the accounting measurement dates for certain stock option grants, covering options to purchase approximately 4.6 million shares of our common stock, differed from the measurement dates previously used for such awards. As a result, revised measurement dates were applied to the affected option grants, and we recorded a total of $9.5 million in additional stock-based compensation expense for the years 2000 through 2005. The additional stock-based compensation expense was amortized over the service period relating to each option, typically four years, with approximately 90% of the total expense recorded in years prior to 2004. These expenses had the effect of decreasing income from operations, net income, and net income per share (basic and diluted) in affected periods in which we reported income, and increasing loss from operations, net loss, and net loss per share in affected periods in which we reported a loss. Further information regarding the effect of the restatement on our Consolidated Financial Statements for various periods is provided in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in Part II, Item 7 of this Report. An SEC inquiry and litigation relating to certain of our stock option grants remain pending and could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price and may divert the attention of our management and other key employees. An informal inquiry by the SEC relating to our stock option granting practices remains pending, as does derivative and class action litigation against the Company and certain of our Board of Directors and officers. Although we believe that we have made appropriate corrections to our Consolidated Financial Statements for matters relating to stock options, we cannot rule out the possibility that these proceedings may require further adjustments to the Financial Statements and other disclosures set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, these proceedings are likely to result in additional legal expense that may affect our results in future periods, and may also result in diversion of management attention and other resources, as well as fines, penalties, damages and other sanctions. The U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Georgia has also been given access to the documents and information provided by us to the SEC. Action by the SEC, the U.S. Attorney’s Office or other governmental agencies could result in civil or criminal actions against us and/or certain of our former officers, directors and/or employees and might result in monetary and other sanctions. As discussed in Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Report, civil litigation described in the preceeding paragraph includes allegations, among other, that certain of our current and former directors and officers improperly dated stock option grants to enhance 11 their own profits on the exercise of such options or for other improper purposes. Although we and the other defendants intend to defend these claims vigorously, there are many uncertainties associated with any litigation, and we cannot assure you that these actions will be resolved without substantial costs and/or settlement charges. We have entered into indemnification agreements with each of our present and former directors and officers. Under those agreements, we are (with certain exceptions) required to indemnify each such director or officer against expenses, including attorneys’ fees, judgments, fines and settlements, paid by such individual in connection with the pending litigation. The resolution of the pending investigations by the SEC and U.S. Attorney’s Office, the defense of our pending civil litigation, and the defense of any additional litigation relating to our past stock option practices or the February 2007 restatement of our prior Consolidated Financial Statements could result in significant costs and diversion of the attention of management and other key employees. The implementation of new accounting rules related to the expensing of stock-based awards negatively impacted our operating results in 2006 and is expected to continue to do so in 2007 and thereafter. Any subsequent changes in accounting rules may also have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 123(R), Share-Based Payment, effective January 1, 2006. SFAS No. 123(R) requires all share-based payment awards to employees, including grants of stock options, restricted stock units and employee stock purchase rights, to be recognized in our Consolidated Financial Statements based on their respective grant date fair values and does not allow the previously permitted pro forma disclosure-only method as an alternative to Financial Statements recognition. The adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) may have a significant adverse impact on our reported results of operations because the stock-based compensation expense is charged directly against our reported earnings. Stock-based compensation expense and unvested stock-based compensation will increase to the extent that we increase our work force, grant additional equity awards to employees or assume unvested equity awards in connection with acquisitions. If we fail to protect our intellectual property, third parties may use our technology for their own benefit. Our success and ability to compete depends to a significant degree upon our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark laws and confidentiality agreements with employees and third parties to establish and protect our proprietary rights. These measures may not be sufficient to protect our proprietary rights, and we cannot be certain that third parties will not misappropriate our technology and use it for their own benefit. Also, most of these protections do not preclude our competitors from independently developing products with functionality or features substantially equivalent or superior to our software. Any infringement of our proprietary rights could negatively affect our future operating results. As of December 31, 2006, we had 11 registered trademarks in the U.S. and 13 U.S. and 3 non-U.S patents. We cannot assure you that we will file new patent or trademark applications, that any future applications will be approved, that any existing or future patents, trademarks or copyrights will adequately protect our intellectual property or that any existing or future patents, trademarks or copyrights will not be challenged by third parties. We are aware of certain uses, U.S. trademark registrations, and U.S. trademark applications for our “eQuality” trademark and its variations that predate our use, and the April 2002 issuance of the U.S. registration for our trademark eQuality®. It is possible that an owner of legal rights resulting from prior use, registrations, or applications will bring legal action to challenge our registration of and/or our use of the trademark eQuality®, and may also seek compensation for damages resulting from our use this trademark. As a result, we cannot assure you that our registration of this trademark will be undisturbed, or that this use will not result in liability for trademark infringement, trademark dilution, and/or unfair competition. 12 Moreover, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Furthermore, policing the unauthorized use of our products is difficult, and litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could negatively affect our future operating results. Claims by other companies that our software infringes their intellectual property could require us to incur substantial costs or prevent us from selling our software or services. Third parties have in the past claimed, and it is possible that third parties will in the future claim, that we have infringed their current or future intellectual property. We expect that we and other participants in our industry will be increasingly subject to infringement claims as the number of competitors and products grows. Any claims, with or without merit, which are generally uninsurable, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, require us to reengineer or redevelop our software, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, any of which could negatively affect our operating results. Any efforts to reengineer our software or obtain licenses from third parties may not be successful, could be extremely costly and would likely divert valuable management and product development resources. For example, claims have been asserted against us in lawsuits involving Knowlagent, STS and NICE (as described in Item 3, “Legal Proceedings”, of Part I). We cannot assure you that we will be successful in defending against the claims that have been asserted or any other claims that may be asserted. We also cannot assure you that such claims will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or operations. Defending infringement claims or other claims involves substantial costs and diversion of management resources. In addition, to the extent we are not successful in defending such claims, we may be subject to injunctions with respect to the use or sale of certain of our products or to liabilities for damages to the claimants or to customers to whom we have indemnification commitments, and we may be required to obtain licenses which may not be available on reasonable terms. In addition, we cannot assure you that legal action claiming patent infringement will not be commenced against us, or that we would prevail in litigation given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in patent litigation. In addition, users of our software may become subject to claims if our software is alleged to infringe the intellectual property rights of others. These software users could attempt to hold us responsible for these claims and any resulting harm they suffer. If a patent claim against us were to be successful and we could not obtain a license on acceptable terms or license a substitute technology or redesign to avoid infringement, we may be prevented from distributing our software or required to incur significant expense and delay in developing non-infringing software. Such a result could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because our products have a long sales cycle, it is more difficult to plan our expenses and forecast our results; and our operating results may fail to meet investor expectations and may fluctuate materially from period to period, which may adversely affect our stock price. It typically takes three to nine months from the time we qualify a sales lead until we sign a sales contract with the customer. As a result, it is difficult for us to predict the quarter in which a particular sale will occur. If our sales cycle unexpectedly lengthens for one or more large orders or a significant number of small orders, it would delay the timing of our revenue, but not the timing of most of our corresponding expenses. Lengthening of our sales cycle could also increase the total cost of a sale due to additional employee time and costs associated with the sale. Material changes in our sales cycle could cause our quarterly revenue or operating results to be below the expectations of investors, and the price of our common stock could fall substantially. 13 Our customers’ decision process regarding their purchase of our products and services is relatively long due to several factors, including: · the complex nature of our products, requiring our need to educate potential customers about the uses and benefits of our products; · competition for the corporate resources necessary to finance the purchase and implementation of our products; · customers’ budgeting and purchasing cycles; · general economic conditions; · the extent of customers’ evaluation and internal approval process often required before purchasing our products and services; and · delayed purchases due to announcements of new products or enhancements by our competitors or us. If our products and services are not used and accepted by existing and prospective customers, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. The market for workforce optimization software, including software that records and analyzes customer interactions and that forecast and schedules employees, is still developing. Our success depends on the use and acceptance of our software and services by existing and prospective customers. In addition, demand for our software remains uncertain because our existing and potential customers may: · not understand the benefits of using workforce optimization software generally or, more specifically, software which records and analyzes the interactions between a business and its customers or which optimizes the forecasting and scheduling of employees; · not achieve favorable results using our software; · experience technical difficulty in implementing our software; · use alternative methods such as online self-help to solve the same business problems our software is intended to address; or · close contact centers. Our quarterly results are difficult to predict and adverse fluctuations in operating results could cause our stock price to fall. Our quarterly revenue and operating results are difficult to predict and could fluctuate significantly from period to period. In particular, we typically derive a significant portion of our software product revenue toward the end of each quarter and from a small number of relatively large orders. The delay or failure to close anticipated sales in a particular quarter could reduce our revenue in that quarter and subsequent quarters over which revenue for the sale could be recognized. In addition, because our revenue from installation and training services largely correlates with our product revenue, a decline in product revenue could also cause a decline in our professional services revenue in the same quarter or in subsequent quarters. Our quarterly revenue is difficult to forecast for several reasons, including the following: · changes in demand for our products and services; · the tendency of customers to delay software purchases until the end of the fiscal quarter; 14 · lengthening of our customers’ budgeting and purchasing cycles; · timing of any acquisitions and related costs; · delays in installations of our software; · varying sales and implementation cycles for our products and services from customer to customer; · the failure of our customers to renew their maintenance service agreements; · the timing of hiring new services employees and the rate at which these employees become productive; and · the development and performance of our distribution channels. As a result of these and other factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results may not be a good indicator of our future performance, and you should not rely on them to predict our future performance or the performance of our stock price. If our revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock would likely decline. We may be unable to manage and expand our international operations, which may adversely affect our business and operating results. We derived revenues of $97.2 million, $84.6 million and $68.1 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, from customers located outside the United States. Our operations outside of the United States at December 31, 2006, consisted of operations located in Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Germany, India, Japan, Mexico, the Netherlands, Singapore, South Africa and the United Kingdom. We have also established relationships with a number of international resellers. We intend to expand our international operations through acquisitions, internal business expansion and strategic business relationships. These efforts require significant management attention and financial resources. We may not be able to successfully penetrate international markets or, if we do, we may not be able to grow or to maintain adequate profit margins in these markets. Because of the complex nature of our international expansion, it may adversely affect our business and operating results. International expansion and sales are subject to many risks, including the following: · limited development of an international market for our software and services; · expanding and training our international sales force and support operations; · higher costs of employment in certain international locations; · difficulties in producing localized versions of our products; · political and economic instability; · potentially adverse tax consequences of operating in foreign countries; · international laws and regulations, including trade restrictions, local labor ordinances, changes in tariff rates and import and export licensing requirements; · longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; · currency fluctuations; · cultural differences which may affect workforce performance and sales processes; · difficulties and expenses associated with complying with a variety of foreign laws; and 15 · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements. As we further expand our operations outside the United States, we will also face new competitors and competitive environments. In addition to the risks associated with our domestic competitors, foreign competitors may pose an even greater risk, because they may possess a better understanding of their local markets and have better working relationships with local infrastructure providers and others. In particular, because telephone protocols and standards are unique to each country, local competitors will have more experience with, and may have a competitive advantage in, these markets. We may not be able to obtain similar levels of knowledge, which could place us at a significant competitive disadvantage. In addition, we have limited experience in developing local language versions of our products or in marketing our products to international customers. We may not be able to successfully translate, market, sell and deliver our products internationally. If we are unable to maintain a productive direct sales force, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. We believe that our future success will depend on maintaining a productive direct sales force. Historically, it has taken us up to six months to train new sales personnel before they reach an acceptable level of productivity. We have also experienced difficulty in recruiting sales personnel with experience in computer and telephone integration technologies. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to manage turnover and hire new sales personnel to meet our needs. If the personnel we hire are less qualified than we expect, it may take us more time to train them before they reach an acceptable level of productivity, which could increase our costs and reduce our revenue. If we are unable to expand the distribution of our products through indirect sales channels, our business and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Our strategy is to continue to increase the proportion of customers served through indirect sales channels, such as select resellers and a variety of strategic marketing alliances. Product revenue, excluding hardware revenue, from our indirect sales channel represented approximately 44% and 41% of total product revenue in 2006 and 2005, respectively. We expect revenue from our indirect sales channel and, accordingly, our dependence on distribution partners, to increase as we establish relationships with companies to resell our software worldwide. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain productive relationships with our current partners, or that we will be able to establish similar relationships with additional resellers on a timely basis, if at all. Some resellers with which we do business have similar, and often more established, relationships with our competitors, and may recommend the products and services of our competitors to customers instead of our software and services. We cannot provide assurance that these distribution partners will devote adequate resources to selling our software and services or that our resellers may not learn about our products and the market for our software and services and develop and sell competing products and services. As a result, our relationships with resellers could lead to increased competition for us. Competition in our business could adversely affect our revenue, profitability and market share. The market for products that record customer interactions, forecast and schedule employees, analyze performance and/or provide electronic learning is intensely competitive, evolving and is subject to rapid changes in technology. We believe our principal competitors include, but are not limited to: · traditional call-logging vendors; · quality monitoring suppliers to the contact center industry; 16 · workforce management, forecasting and scheduling vendors to the call center, branch banking and back office operations industries; · electronic learning vendors; · business analytics vendors; · large telecom solution providers; · enterprise software vendors; · systems integrators and consulting firms; and · new, larger and more established entities that may acquire, invest in or form joint ventures with providers of recording or performance enhancing software solutions. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, more established business relationships, larger customer bases, a broader range of products and services, greater name recognition and substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, personnel, management, service, support and other resources than we do. As a result, our current and potential competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, take better advantage of acquisitions and other opportunities, devote greater resources to marketing and selling their products and services and adopt more aggressive pricing policies. We cannot assure you that our current or potential competitors will not develop products comparable or superior in terms of price and performance features to those developed by us. In addition, many of our competitors market their products through resellers and companies that integrate their technology and products with those of the competitor. These resellers and technology partners often have strong business relationships with our customers and potential customers. For example, some of our competitors have better and more long standing relationships than we do with telephone switch vendors. Our competitors may use these business relationships to market and sell their products and compete for potential customers. It is also possible that resellers or technology partners may acquire or be acquired by one or more of our competitors, which would further solidify their business relationships. We expect that competition will increase as other established and emerging companies enter our market and as new products, services and technologies are introduced. Increased competition may result in price reductions, lower gross margins and loss of market share, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our heavy reliance on sales of our recording, quality monitoring and workforce management software exposes us to risks of obsolescence due to changes in competitive product offerings. We have derived a substantial portion of our product revenues from sales of our recording, quality monitoring and workforce management software products. We expect revenue from these products to continue to account for a significant portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. As a result, any factors affecting the markets for these products could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that the market will continue to demand our current products or those we will be successful in marketing any new or enhanced products. If our competitors release new products that are superior to our products in performance or price, demand for our products may decline. A decline in demand for our products as a result of competition, technological change or other factors would reduce our total revenues and adversely affect profitability. 17 If we fail to develop new software or improve our existing software, we may not remain competitive. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, frequent new product introductions and enhancements, changes in customer demands and evolving industry standards. Our existing products could be rendered obsolete if we fail to continue to advance our technology. We have also found that the technological life cycles of our products are difficult to estimate, partially because of changing demands of our customers. We believe that our future success will depend on our ability to continue to enhance our current product line while we concurrently develop and introduce new products that keep pace with competitive and technological developments. These developments require us to anticipate customers’ future needs and to continue to make substantial product development investments. Although we are presently developing a number of product enhancements to our product suites, we cannot assure you that these enhancements will be completed on a timely basis or gain customer acceptance. In addition, failure to develop new software or improve existing software products may adversely affect our ability to maintain our maintenance renewal rate which could adversely affect our revenue. Our liability to customers may be substantial if our products fail to perform properly. Our software is used in a complex operating environment that requires its integration with computer and telephone networks and other business software applications. If our products fail to function as required, we may be subject to claims for substantial damages. Courts may not enforce provisions in our contracts that would limit our liability or otherwise protect us from liability for damages. Although we maintain general liability insurance coverage, including coverage for errors or omissions, this coverage may not continue to be available on reasonable terms or in sufficient amounts to cover claims against us. In addition, our insurer may disclaim coverage as to any future claim. If claims exceeding the available insurance coverage are successfully asserted against us, or our insurer imposes premium increases, large deductibles or co-insurance requirements on us, our business, financial position, and results of operations could be adversely affected. If an original equipment manufacturer that is part of our indirect sales channel experiences technical difficulties, our product sales through that channel may be adversely affected. When we sell our software through an original equipment manufacturer, or OEM, our software is embedded in the OEM’s product, which we sometimes refer to as the “environment” for our software. When the OEM’s product uses our software, there is a risk that the “environment” will fail or that it will not achieve the compatibility with our product that we and the OEM seek. If this happens, our software might not function properly, or the OEM might sell less of it, or both, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, operating cash flows and the growth of our business. Our software may contain undetected errors or “bugs,” resulting in harm to our reputation and operating results. Software products as complex as those offered by us might contain undetected errors or failures when first introduced or when new versions are released. We cannot assure you, despite testing by us and by current and prospective customers that errors will not be found in new products or product enhancements after commercial release. Any errors found may cause substantial harm to our reputation and result in a loss in revenue and additional unplanned expenses to remedy any defects. If our advanced compliance recording applications fail to record our customers’ interactions, we may be subject to liability and our reputation may be harmed. Many of our customers use our advanced compliance recording applications to record and store interactions with customers to provide back-up and verification of transactions and to guard against risks posed by lost or misinterpreted voice communications. These customers rely on our applications to record, 18 store and retrieve voice data in a timely, reliable and efficient manner. If our applications fail to record our customers’ interactions or our customers are unable to retrieve the recordings when necessary, we may be subject to liability and our reputation may be harmed. If we are unable to maintain the security of our systems, our business, financial condition and operating results could be harmed. The occurrence or perception of security breaches in the operation of our business or suffered by third parties using our products could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Our customers use our products to compile and analyze highly sensitive or confidential information. We may come into contact with such information or data when we perform support or maintenance functions for our customers. While we have internal policies and procedures for employees performing these functions, the perception that we have improperly handled sensitive, confidential information could have a negative effect on our business. If, in handling this information, we fail to comply with privacy or security laws, we could incur civil liability to government agencies, customers and individuals whose privacy is compromised. If personal information is received or used from sources outside the U.S., we could be subject to civil, administrative or criminal liability under the laws of other countries. In addition, while we implement sophisticated security measures, third parties may attempt to breach our security or inappropriately use our products through computer viruses, electronic break-ins and other disruptions. If successful, confidential information may be improperly obtained and we may be subject to lawsuits and other liability. Any internal or external security breaches could harm our reputation, and even the perception of security risks, whether or not valid, could inhibit market acceptance of our products. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could affect our financial results. We may experience gains and losses resulting from fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Moreover, in locations where we price our products in U.S. dollars, our sales could be affected adversely by declines in foreign currencies relative to the dollar, thereby making our products more expensive in local currencies. In locations where we sell our products in local currencies, we could be competitively unable to increase our prices to reflect fluctuations in exchange rates. We do not use derivative instruments to manage our foreign exchange risk, and we cannot predict the impact that future exchange rate fluctuations may have on our results. Certain provisions in agreements that we have entered into may expose us to liability for breach that is not limited in amount by the terms of the contract. Certain contract provisions, principally confidentiality and indemnification obligations in certain of our license agreements, could expose us to risks of loss that, in some cases, are not limited by contract to a specified maximum amount. If we fail to perform to the standards required by these contracts, we could be subject to additional liability and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to maintain the compatibility of our software with certain other products and technologies, our future business would be adversely affected. Our software must integrate with software and hardware solutions provided by a number of our existing and potential competitors. For example, our products must integrate with phone switches made by the telephone switch vendors and computer telephony software applications offered by other software providers. These competitors or their business partners could alter their products so that our software no longer integrates well with them, or they could delay or deny our access to software releases that allow us to timely adapt our software to integrate with their products. If we cannot adapt our software to changes in necessary technology, it may significantly impair our ability to compete effectively, particularly if our software must integrate with the software and hardware solutions of our competitors. 19 If our professional services employees do not provide installation services effectively and efficiently, our customers may not use our installation services or may stop using our software. Our customers ordinarily purchase installation, training and maintenance services together with our products. The functionality of our products is not dependent on our installation and training services. We believe that the speed and quality of installation services are competitive factors in our industry. If our installation services are not satisfactory to our customers, the customers may choose not to use our installation services or they may not license our software in the future. As a result, we would lose licensing and services revenue, and it could harm our reputation. In addition, our revenues realized from the performance of maintenance services are material to our operating results, and a failure to provide adequate maintenance support to our customers would result in reduced maintenance revenues and have an adverse effect on our operating results. We may make acquisitions or investments that are not successful and that adversely affect our ongoing operations. We may acquire or make investments in companies, products, services and technologies that we believe complement our business and assist us in quickly bringing new products to market. We have limited experience in making acquisitions and investments. As a result, our ability to identify and evaluate prospects, complete acquisitions and properly manage the integration of businesses is relatively unproven. If we fail to properly evaluate and execute acquisitions or investments, it may have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. In making or attempting to make acquisitions or investments, we face a number of risks, including: · identifying suitable candidates, performing appropriate due diligence, identifying potential liabilities and negotiating acceptable terms; · reducing our working capital and hindering our ability to expand or maintain our business, if we make acquisitions using cash; · the potential distraction of our management, diversion of our resources and disruption of our business; · retaining and motivating key employees of the acquired companies; · managing operations that are distant from our current headquarters and operations; · entering into geographic markets in which we have little or no prior experience; · competing for acquisition opportunities with competitors that are larger than we are or have greater financial and other resources than we have; · accurately forecasting the financial impact of a transaction; · assuming liabilities of acquired companies, including litigation related to the operation of the business prior to the acquisition; · maintaining good relations with the customers and suppliers of the acquired company; · potentially dilutive issuances of securities as consideration for an acquisition; · effectively integrating acquired companies and achieving expected synergies; and · the impairment of the value of the assets acquired in any corporate acquisition. 20 If we need additional financing to maintain or expand our business, it may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. Although we believe our current cash and borrowing capacity will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next 12 months and the foreseeable future, we may need additional funds to expand or meet all of our operating needs. If we need additional financing, we cannot be certain that it will be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities or convertible debt, the ownership interest of our stockholders could be significantly diluted, and any additional equity securities we issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to the rights of our stockholders. Also, the terms of any additional financing we obtain may significantly limit our future financing and operating activities. If we need funds and cannot obtain them on acceptable terms, we may be unable to: · develop and enhance our software to remain competitive; · take advantage of future opportunities, such as acquisitions; · respond to changing customer needs and our competitors’ innovations; or · attract and retain qualified key personnel. Any of these events could significantly harm our business and financial condition and limit our growth. Our inability to source hardware could harm our business. A number of customers expect us to source hardware to support the implementation of our software. We seek to reduce the amount of hardware sales in the future and have transferred the fulfillment of hardware orders to third-party distributors. Thus, we are largely dependent on third parties for the supply of hardware components to our customers. If these hardware distributors experience financial, operational or quality assurance difficulties, or if there is any other disruption in our relationships, we may be required to locate alternative hardware sources. We are subject to the following risks due to our hardware distribution system: · cancellations of orders due to unavailability of hardware; · increased hardware prices, which may make our products less attractive; and · additional development expense to modify our products to work with new hardware configurations. Even if we and/or our distributors are successful in locating alternative sources of supply, alternative suppliers could increase prices significantly. In addition, alternative components may malfunction or interact with existing components in unexpected ways. The use of new suppliers and the modification of our products to function with new systems would require testing and may require further modifications, which may result in additional expense, diversion of management attention and other resources, inability to fulfill customer orders or delay in fulfillment, reduction in quality and reliability, customer dissatisfaction, and other adverse effects on our reputation, business and operating results. We have reported material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting and cannot assure you that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. If our internal controls over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures are not effective, there may be errors in our Consolidated Financials Statements that could require a restatement or our filings may not be timely and investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposes certain duties on us and our executives, Board of Directors and attorneys. Our efforts to comply with the requirements of Section 404 have resulted in increased general and administrative expense and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue- 21 generating activities to compliance activities, and we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. We have reported material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting which we found in connection with our evaluation of controls and procedures as of December 31, 2006. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could result in investigation and/or sanctions by regulatory authorities, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results, investor confidence in our reported financial information, and the market price of our common stock. Our stock price has been volatile. The market price of our common stock has been subject to significant fluctuations in response to variations in quarterly operating results and other factors. In addition, the stock market has experienced significant volatility that has particularly affected the market prices of equity securities of many technology companies and that often has been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Any announcement with respect to any adverse variance in revenue or earnings from levels generally expected by securities analysts or investors could have a significant adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. In addition, factors such as announcements of technological innovations or new products by us, our competitors or third parties, changing conditions in the customer relationship management software market, changes in the market valuations of similar companies, loss of a major customer, additions or departures of key personnel, changes in estimates by securities analysts, announcements of extraordinary events, such as acquisitions or litigation, or general economic conditions may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. With the announcement of our pending Merger with Verint pursuant to which our stockholders would receive a fixed cash price of $27.50 per share of our common stock (less any applicable withholding taxes and without interest), the market price of our common stock may depend more on developments and expectations relating to the probability and timing of completion of the Merger and may be less subject to fluctuation resulting from other changes. Government regulation of telephone and Internet monitoring could cause a decline in the use of our software, result in increased expenses for us or subject our customers and us to liability. As the telecommunications industry continues to evolve, state, federal and foreign governments (including supranational governmental organizations such as the European Union) and industry associations may increasingly regulate the monitoring of telecommunications and telephone and Internet monitoring and recording products, such as our software. We believe that increases in regulation could come in a number of different forms, including regulations regarding privacy, protection of personal information such as Social Security numbers, credit card information and employment. For example, the State of California enacted the Database Security Breach Act, which requires any business that suffers a computer security breach to immediately notify customers in California if personal information has been compromised, and the payment card industry has adopted regulations that require additional security regarding the storage of consumers’ credit card numbers. The adoption of any new regulations or changes to existing regulations could cause a decline in the use of our software and could result in increased expense for us as we modify our software to accommodate these regulations. Moreover, these regulations could subject our customers or us to liability. Whether or not these regulations are adopted, if we do not adequately address the privacy concerns of consumers, companies may be hesitant to use our software. If any of these events occur, it could materially and adversely affect our business. 22 If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our ability to effectively manage and grow our business would suffer. Our success greatly depends on our ability to hire, train, retain and motivate qualified personnel, particularly in sales, marketing, research and development, service and support. We face significant competition for individuals with the skills required to perform the services we offer. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel or if we experience high personnel turnover, it could prevent us from effectively managing and expanding our business. Our success also depends upon the continued service of our executive officers. Any of our executive officers and other employees could terminate his or her relationship with us at any time. The loss of the services of our executive officers or other key personnel, particularly if lost to competitors, could materially and adversely affect our business. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as Delaware law, may inhibit a takeover of our company, which could limit the price investors might be willing to pay for our securities. Should our proposed Merger with Verint not be consummated our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as Delaware law, contain provisions that might enable our management to resist a takeover of our company by some other person or entity. For example, our stockholders cannot take action by written consent or call a special meeting to remove our Board of Directors. In addition, our directors serve for staggered terms, which makes it difficult to remove all our directors at once. Further, in October 2002, our Board of Directors approved, and we implemented, a stockholder rights plan which has the effect of causing substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by the Board of Directors. These anti-takeover provisions might discourage, delay or prevent a change in the control of our company or a change in our management. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other shareholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. The existence of these provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for our securities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have not received any written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more before the end of our fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, and therefore no issues remain unresolved. 