D. Risk factors In addition to the other information contained in this annual report on Form 20-F, you should carefully consider the following risk factors. If any of the possible events described below occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be adversely affected. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also adversely affect us. Risks Relating to Our Business and Operations Our application for a free TV license in Hong Kong was rejected and although our judicial review was successful, we may not ultimately receive a license. In 2009, we submitted an application for a free TV license to the HKBA. On October 15, 2013, the Chief Executive in Council announced that it had rejected our application. As a result, we are not able to operate domestic free television program services in Hong Kong. On April 11, 2014, we submitted a new application for a free TV license, which is being considered by the CA. On January 6, 2014, we filed an application for leave to apply for judicial review in respect of the Chief Executive’s denial of our first application and the substantive hearing was conducted from August 27 to 29, 2014. The court’s judgment was handed down on April 24, 2015, quashing the Chief Executive’s denial of our application for a free TV license and directing the government to pay our legal fees and expenses in relation to the judicial review. The application was remitted to the Chief Executive in Council for reconsideration. The Chief Executive in Council, after reconsidering our application, may again reject our application. Even if we again apply for judicial review of the new denial, that could be a protracted and costly process and one which is not successful in the end. We may not ultimately receive a license. As we had planned on domestic free television being one of the major distribution channels for our self-produced television content and the primary source of our advertising revenue, any failure to obtain a free TV license will make us more reliant on the other distribution channels we have been exploring, such as our mobile TV services, and developing, such as our OTT and Online Shopping Business. 8 Table of Contents Depending on the progress we make in obtaining a free TV license, we may at some point cease pursuing the domestic free television business in Hong Kong, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects and financial condition. Our application to use the widely adopted DTMB standard to provide mobile TV services in Hong Kong using the license of our subsidiary was rejected by the CA, and our judicial review may not be successful. By acquiring the Target Company in December 2013, we acquired a license to provide mobile TV services in Hong Kong. In April 2014, however, we suspended the launch of mobile TV services after being denied permission by the CA to provide the services using the DTMB transmission standard without also having a free tv license. As a consequence, we have reduced the scale of our workforce in the creative and production teams, and we suspended the filming of new television programs The High Court granted us leave to apply for judicial review, and the substantive hearing was conducted on November 26 and 27, 2014, with the judgment reserved to be handed down at a later date. As noted above, we have submitted a new application for a free TV license, and our first application for a free TV license may be reconsidered by the Chief Executive in Council in light of the outcome of the judicial review of his denial of that application. This free TV license, if granted, would enable us to use the DTMB transmission standard, but we may not ultimately receive the license. Subject to feedback from viewers, to the result of the Chief Executive’s reconsideration of our first application for a free TV license, to the result of the CA’s consideration of our second application for a free TV license, and to the result of the judicial review on our provision of mobile TV services, we may adjust the direction and pace of our content and will consider resuming content production. We will also continue to explore opportunities to extend the reach of our content to Hong Kong people using different platforms. Given the uncertainties relating to our licenses, there can be no assurance that we will in fact resume content production or extend the reach of our content. As we had planned on our mobile TV services being one of the major distribution channels for our self-produced television content and a significant source of our advertising revenue, our failure to gain permission to provide mobile TV services in Hong Kong using an acceptable transmission standard will make us more reliant on the other distribution channels we have been developing, such as our OTT platform, and on other business development, such as our online shopping business. If we lose the judicial review in respect of our provision of mobile TV services, we may be responsible for the government’s costs incurred in the process. Even if the judicial review is successful, we will not necessarily be granted permission to use the DTMB transmission standard or another standard acceptable to us; a successful judicial review may merely mean that the CA will be required to reconsider our plan to use the DTMB transmission standard in light of the outcome of the judicial review. If we do not make real progress in the near future toward permission to provide mobile TV service in Hong Kong using an acceptable transmission standard, we may cease pursuing the mobile TV business in Hong Kong, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects and financial condition. We have a limited operating history in our Multimedia Business, which makes it difficult to evaluate our business. Our Multimedia Business includes our offer of free television programming through our OTT platform, our online shopping business, multimedia and drama productions, and content distribution and licensing, as well as artiste management services. We launched our OTT platform, HKTV Mall, in November 2014 and our online shopping business in February 2015. As a result, we have a limited operating history in the Multimedia Business for you to evaluate our business, financial performance and prospects. Our historical results, which were largely based on the Telecom Business that we disposed of in May 2012, are not indicative of our future performance. To date, we have not achieved significant revenue or profitability in our Multimedia Business and, going forward, we may not be able to generate significant revenue or achieve profitability. We may not be able to implement our business plans and expansion strategies successfully. We may not be able to implement our business plans and expansion strategies successfully. Our business plans include strengthening our position in the multimedia and television industry, in part through the expansion of our OTT platform, as well as expanding our online presence with our online shopping business. Our business plans and strategies have been formulated based on a number of assumptions, including successful cooperation with our business partners, and are expected to place substantial demands on our managerial, operational, financial and other resources. The success of our business plans and expansion strategies depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: • build our infrastructure on schedule and within budget; • produce high-quality content appealing to our customers within budget; 9 Table of Contents • source merchants with products and services which are appealing to our customers and have attractive pricing and sufficient inventory for ready availability for delivery to our customers in their required timeframe; • generate revenue through advertising, online shopping operations, content licensing and distribution, content production, artiste management and other multimedia-related platforms; • develop effective marketing channels in Hong Kong and international markets; and • maintain effective operational cost and quality control. The failure to achieve any of the above could increase our costs of operation and investment. We may not be able to manage our operations efficiently to compete successfully in our existing markets or any new markets that we may enter, which may materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Our OTT and Online Shopping Businesses may not be profitable. We have refined our business plan to focus primarily on the development of our OTT and online shopping businesses. On November 19, 2014, we officially announced the launch of the HKTV Mall – an OTT platform integrating entertainment and a one-stop online shopping platform in Hong Kong. The first phase was to launch the OTT platform with about 18 hours of broadcasting content, including self-produced drama series, variety and infotainment programs and purchased content. After the trial run on December 17, 2014, our online shopping mall was formally launched on February 2, 2015. This platform can be accessed through multiple Internet-connected devices, such as smart phones running on Android, iOS and Windows, tablet computers, personal computers, smart TV sets, Android TV boxes and game consoles. For the sixteen months ended December 31, 2014, we incurred a loss of HK$237.0 million. We may incur substantial expenditure in connection with these endeavors before we can generate significant revenue from our OTT and online shopping businesses. As a result, our OTT and online shopping businesses may not be able to become profitable in the future. The construction and development of the Centre is subject to a number of risks beyond our control. We started building the Centre on land granted by Hong Kong Science and Technology Parks Corporation in the Tseung Kwan O Industrial Estate in February 2012. In light of the rejection of our application for a free TV license, we have suspended the construction of the Centre. Depending on business developments, the result of the Chief Executive’s reconsideration of our first application for a free TV license, the result of the CA’s consideration of our second application for a free TV license and the outcome of the judicial review relating to our mobile TV license, we may resume the construction of the Centre to support our business development. We have obtained an extension of time for development of the Centre to February 28, 2017. If we do not resume the construction of the Centre, we will be unable to recover the investment made to date in the project, which totaled HK$156.3 million as of December 31, 2014. If we do resume the construction and development of the Centre, the success of the project will be subject to a number of risks beyond our control, including: • the possibility of construction delays or cost overruns due to inclement weather, labor or material shortages, work stoppages, market inflation or delayed regulatory approvals; • the possibility of discovering previously undetected defects or problems; and • natural disasters, social disorder and other extraordinary events. The occurrence of any of these events could further delay the construction and development of the Centre or increase construction costs, which may in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. The development of our Multimedia Business requires significant capital expenditure, which may not be available on satisfactory terms or may impose a burden on our other business activities. We expect to incur significant capital expenditure to develop our Multimedia Business, a major portion of which will be for the building of the Centre. Our capital expenditure plans will also include the development of our OTT and online shopping businesses. While we intend to fund such expenditure by using our currently available cash, as well as unutilized banking facilities, we may not have adequate capital to fund our projected capital expenditure if there is any further delay in our capital expenditure plans or if there is an increase in costs. If we cannot finance our capital expenditure using existing available cash and unutilized banking facilities, we may be required to incur additional debt, reduce capital expenditure, sell assets, or raise equity. Market conditions may impair our ability to obtain financing to support our capital expansion plans. Additional debt or equity financing may not be available, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictions on our investing, financing and operating activities. 10 Table of Contents If we fail to capture viewer preferences, our business prospects and reputation could be materially and adversely affected. The success of our self-produced multimedia content, such as the entertainment programs broadcast on our OTT platform and available in HKTV Mall, depends primarily on our ability to capture viewer preferences, which vary among different demographic groups and regions and could change rapidly. In general, the popularity of multimedia content among viewers is mainly determined by the producer’s ability to originate and source viewer-engaging content, create high-quality scripts and characters that appeal to a broad range of viewers, and cast popular talent and directors. If viewers’ reaction to our multimedia content is different from that we have predicted, the success and popularity of our multimedia content may be jeopardized. If our multimedia content fails to perform as expected, we may not be able to establish a strong reputation in the multimedia content production business, and our business prospects may be materially and adversely affected. Changes in consumer viewing habits could adversely affect our business. The manner in which consumers view multimedia content is changing rapidly. Digital cable, wireless and Internet content providers are continuing to improve technologies, content offerings, user interfaces, and business models that allow consumers to access multimedia content with interactive capabilities. The devices through which multimedia content can be consumed are also changing rapidly. Currently, multimedia content may be viewed on our OTT platform via multiple Internet-connected devices, such as smart phones, tablet computers, personal computers, smart TV sets, Android TV boxes and game consoles. If other providers of multimedia content address the changes in consumer viewing habits in a manner that is better able to meet consumer needs and expectations, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Our distribution of multimedia content may be materially and adversely affected by instability of the network of our prior Telecom Business or disruption in the network’s continued development. Upon the completion of the disposal of the Telecom Business, we were granted an indefeasible right of use, among other rights, to use certain of HKBN’s telecommunications capacity for a term of 20 years to enable the delivery of our multimedia content through the telecommunications network operated by HKBN. We expect the indefeasible right of use will form one of the main channels of distribution in Hong Kong for our multimedia content. Instability of the telecommunications network or disruption in the network’s continued development could materially and adversely affect our operations. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by claims of infringement of intellectual property rights. Monitoring and preventing the unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights may be difficult, costly and time-consuming. We are currently challenging a third party’s applications to register trademarks incorporating our name. If we are unable to adequately protect our copyrights and other intellectual property rights, these rights may be infringed, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. Moreover, third parties may claim that our self-produced multimedia content, including television content, or our trademarks, misappropriate or infringe their intellectual property rights, including those with respect to their previous productions, scripts, characters and trademarks. We are actively defending ourselves against a third-party challenge to one of our registered trademarks. Litigation over intellectual property rights could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. If we are unsuccessful in defending any such assertions or claims, our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation may be materially and adversely affected. Our success depends on our ability to attract, retain and rehire high-quality production crew, talent artistes and logistics personnel in a highly competitive market. The Multimedia Business requires the collaboration of many different workstreams and people with different expertise. In addition, some of our operations, such as our logistics operations, are human-capital intensive. As such, our ability to attract, retain and rehire high-quality production crew, popular talent artistes and logistics personnel will be a key factor to our success. Loss of a significant number of members of our logistics operations could cause customer dissatisfaction with our online shopping services; and, as a result, our business could be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to re-hire Talents, in particular, production team members and talent artistes whom we have made redundant or whose contracts we have not renewed, or to make replacement hires, if we resume content production in the future or need them in order to meet other future business needs. In addition, we face competition for high-quality production crew and popular talent artistes from other multimedia content production companies and other organizations. Competition for these individuals could require us to offer higher compensation and other benefits in order to attract and retain them, which would increase our future operating expenses. 11 Table of Contents We depend on key personnel, and our business and growth prospects may be disrupted by the loss of their services. Our success depends upon the continued service of our key executives and Talents. If any of our key personnel were unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them easily and our business may be significantly disrupted. Furthermore, as our industry is characterized by high demand and increased competition for Talents, we may need to offer higher compensation and other benefits in order to attract and retain key personnel. We might not be able to attract and retain the key personnel that we need to achieve our business objectives. We may lose investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements if we fail to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, which in turn could harm our business and adversely affect the trading prices of our ADSs. Under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, every public company must include a management report on its internal controls over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting. Under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we are also required to have an independent registered public accounting firm to attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. For a detailed discussion of our controls and procedures, see Item 15 “Controls and procedures.” Notwithstanding our efforts, our management could conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective. Even if our management concludes that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective. If either of these were to occur, we could experience a negative reaction in the financial markets and incur additional costs to improve our internal controls. If we do not successfully design and implement changes to our internal controls and management systems, or if we fail to maintain the adequacy of these controls as the relevant standards are modified or amended from time to time, we may not be able to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. This could subject us to regulatory scrutiny and penalties that could lead to a loss of public confidence in our management, which in turn could, among other things, adversely affect our shareholders’ confidence, our stock price and our ability to raise additional capital and operate our business as projected. We may not be able to sustain the level of other income we generated in fiscal 2014. We recorded “other income, net” of HK$147.6 million in fiscal 2014, which was significantly more than in previous years. As compared with fiscal 2013, the increase was mainly due to an increase of HK$56.3 million in investment return, which included an additional four months’ investment return of HK$35.5 million, as well as an additional four month’s rental from investment properties of HK$3.8 million, which were partially offset by a HK$41.4 million decrease in exchange gain. In fiscal 2014, our “other income, net” mainly comprised interest income from available-for-sale securities, bank interest income, net exchange gain and rental income from investment properties. As we develop our Multimedia Business, less surplus cash will be available for these investments and, accordingly, we may not be able to generate a similar level of other income as we did in fiscal 2014. In addition, our investment income is affected by many factors beyond our control. For example, our interest income is affected by changes in interest rates, which are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policy and domestic and international economic and political conditions. Deterioration in the credit of the securities in which we have invested and general market conditions may also materially and adversely affect our investment income. We may not be able to realize our investment in other financial assets at our desired time, price and transaction size, or to receive the debt principal back upon maturity. We recorded other financial assets of HK$1,784.4 million as of December 31, 2014 which represented investment in available-for-sale securities mainly composed of debt securities, a significant portion of which has a maturity date of over one year from December 31, 2014, and equity securities. Although we mostly invested in liquid instruments with sound credit quality, such as investment grade products, securities of constituents in major stock indices or securities of state-owned or -controlled companies, we may still face liquidity risk, which is highly sensitive to many factors, including issuers’ credit and financial condition, governmental monetary policy and general market conditions. We may not be able to realize our investment in other financial assets at our desired time, price and transaction size. In addition, we may not be able to recover the par value of our investment in available-for-sale debt securities, upon maturity or at all, if the credit quality and financial position of the debt issuers deteriorate. 12 Table of Contents If we are unable to offer products that attract new customers and recurring purchases from existing customers through our online shopping platform, HKTV Mall, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We launched our 24-hour online shopping platform on HKTV Mall in February 2015. We expect this online shopping business will be one of the major contributors to our business. Our future growth depends on our ability to continue to attract new online shopping customers as well as recurring purchases from existing online shopping customers. Constantly changing consumer preferences have affected and will continue to affect the online retail industry. We must stay abreast of emerging consumer preferences and anticipate product trends that will appeal to existing and potential customers. Our customers choose to purchase authentic and quality products on our website due in part to the attractive prices that we offer, and they may choose to shop elsewhere if we cannot match the prices offered by other websites or by physical stores. If our customers cannot find their desired products on our website at attractive prices, they may lose interest in us and visit our website less frequently or even stop visiting our website altogether, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Our online shopping business faces intense competition. We may lose customers if we fail to compete effectively. The online retail industry in Hong Kong is intensely competitive. Our current or potential competitors include major online retailers in the Hong Kong area that offer a wide range of general merchandise product categories, major traditional retailers in Hong Kong that are moving into online retailing, major internet companies that have commenced online retail businesses, online retail companies in Hong Kong focused on specific product categories, and physical retail stores, including big-box stores that also aim to offer a one-stop shopping experience. In addition, new and enhanced technologies may increase the competition in the online retail industry. New competitive business models may appear, for example based on new forms of social media or social commerce. Increased competition may reduce our margins or result in significant losses. When we set prices, we have to consider how competitors have set prices for the same or similar products. When they cut prices or offer additional benefits to compete with us, we may have to lower our own prices or offer additional benefits or risk losing market share, either of which could harm our financial condition and results of operations. Some of our current or future competitors may have longer operating histories, greater brand recognition, better supplier relationships, larger customer bases or greater financial, technical or marketing resources than we do. Some of our competitors may be able to secure more favorable terms from suppliers, devote greater resources to marketing and promotional campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing or inventory policies and devote substantially more resources to their website, mobile application and systems development than us. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors, and competitive pressures may have a material and adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Our online shopping business offers product categories which are not familiar to us, and a substantial increase in the number of products in the future may expose us to new challenges and more risks. As of April 27, 2015, our online shopping mall has over 350 stores offering a variety of products in categories which include fashion, mother and baby, skin care and make up, personal care, medicine and health, supermarket, food and wine, household, music, video and books, games, toys and stationery, outdoor and sports, pet care, and digital and electronics products. In addition, we may substantially increase number of products we offer in the future. Our lack of familiarity with these products and lack of relevant customer data relating to these products may make it more difficult for us to anticipate customer demand and preferences. We may misjudge customer demand. It may also make it more difficult for us to inspect and control quality and ensure proper handling, storage and delivery. We may experience higher return rates on new products, receive more customer complaints about them and face costly product liability claims as a result of selling them for the merchants who are the owners of the products, which could harm our brand and reputation as well as our financial performance. Furthermore, we may not be able to negotiate favorable terms with suppliers. We may need to provide aggressive promotional offers to gain market share or remain competitive in new categories. It may be difficult for us to achieve profitability in the new product categories, and our profit margin, if any, may be lower than we anticipate, which could adversely affect our overall profitability and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents We may be subject to product liability claims if people or properties are harmed by the products we sell through our online shopping platform. We are a marketplace with a substantial number of products and services, selling for third-party merchants through our online shopping platform, some of which may be defectively designed or manufactured. As a result, sales of such products could expose us to product liability claims relating to personal injury or property damage and may require product recalls or other actions. Third parties subject to such injury or damage may bring claims or legal proceedings against us as the operator of the marketplace selling the product. Although we would have legal recourse against the third-party merchants or manufacturer of such products under Hong Kong law, attempting to enforce our rights against such parties may be expensive, time-consuming and ultimately futile. In addition, we do not currently maintain any product liability insurance in relation to products we sell. As a result, any material product liability claim or litigation could have a material and adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Even unsuccessful claims could result in the expenditure of funds and managerial efforts in defending them and could have a negative impact on our reputation. We are subject to payment-related risks. We enable customers of our online shopping business to make payments through our website by working with third-party online payment processing service providers. As we rely on third parties to provide payment processing services, including processing payments made with credit cards, it could disrupt our business or even we may need to scale down or suspense the online shopping business if these companies become unwilling or unable to provide these services to us. We may be subject to human error, fraud and other illegal activities in connection with third-party online payment services. If our data security systems are breached or compromised, we may lose our ability to accept credit card payments from our customers, and we may be subject to claims for damages from our customers and third parties, all of which could adversely and materially affect our reputation as well as our results of operations. If we are unable to conduct our marketing activities cost-effectively, our business, financial conditions and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We have incurred, and we may in the future incur, significant expenses on a variety of marketing efforts designed to increase sales of our products and enhance our brand recognition. Our marketing activities may not be well received by consumers and may not result in the levels of sales that we anticipate. Marketing approaches and tools in the online shopping business in Hong Kong are evolving. This further requires us to enhance our marketing approaches and experiment with new marketing methods to keep pace with industry developments and customer preferences. Failure to refine our existing marketing approaches or to introduce new marketing approaches in a cost-effective manner could reduce our market share, cause our net revenue to decline and negatively impact our prospects to achieve profitability. Failure to protect confidential information of the customers of our online shopping business, due to network against security breaches or other causes, could damage our reputation and substantially harm our business and results of operations. A significant challenge to the online retail industry is the secure storage of confidential information and its secure transmission over public networks. The online payments for products sold on our online shopping platform are settled through third-party online payment processing service providers. Maintaining complete security for the storage and transmission of confidential information on our technology platform, such as customer names, personal details and billing addresses, is essential to maintaining customer confidence. We have adopted security policies and measures, including encryption technology, to protect our proprietary data and customer information. However, advances in technology, the expertise of hackers, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments could result in a compromise or breach of the technology that we use to protect confidential information. We may not be able to prevent third parties, especially hackers or other individuals or entities engaging in similar activities, from illegally obtaining the confidential or private information we hold as a result of our customers’ visits to our website and use of our mobile applications. Any individuals or entities that obtained our customers’ confidential or private information could engage in various other illegal activities using such information. In addition, we have limited control or influence over the security policies or measures adopted by third-party providers of online payment services through which our customers may elect to make payment for purchases. If we give third parties greater access to our technology platform in the future as part of a strategy of providing more technology services to third-party sellers and others, it may become more challenging for us to ensure the security of our systems. Any compromise of our information security, or the information security measures of our contracted third-party online payment and other service providers, could have a material and adverse effect on our reputation, business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Practices regarding the collection, use, storage, transmission and security of personal information by companies operating over the Internet have recently come under increased public scrutiny. As online retail continues to evolve, we believe that increased regulation by the relevant authorities of data privacy on the Internet is likely. We may become subject to new laws and regulations applying to the solicitation, collection, processing or use of personal or consumer information that could affect how we store, process and share data with our customers, suppliers and third-party sellers. Compliance with any additional laws could be expensive, and may place restrictions on the conduct of our business and the manner in which we interact with our customers. Any failure to comply with applicable regulations could also result in regulatory enforcement actions against us. Significant capital and other resources may be required to protect against information security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches or to comply with our privacy policies or privacy-related legal obligations. The resources required may increase over time as the methods used by hackers and others engaged in online criminal activities are increasingly sophisticated and constantly evolving. Any failure or perceived failure by us to prevent information security breaches or to comply with privacy policies or privacy-related legal obligations, or any compromise of security that results in the unauthorized release or transfer of personally identifiable information or other customer data, could cause our customers to lose trust in us and could expose us to legal claims. Any perception by the public that online transactions or the privacy of user information are becoming increasingly unsafe or vulnerable to attacks could inhibit the growth of online retail and other online services generally, which may reduce the number of orders we receive. The proper functioning of our technology platform is essential to our business. Any failure to maintain the satisfactory performance of our website and systems could materially and adversely affect our business and reputation. The satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our technology platform are critical to our success and our ability to attract and retain customers and provide quality customer service. All of our sales of products are made online through our website. Any system interruptions caused by telecommunications failures, computer viruses, hacking or other attempts to harm our systems that result in the unavailability or slowdown of our website or reduced order fulfillment performance could reduce the volume of products sold and the attractiveness of product offerings on our website. Our servers may also be vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, which could lead to system interruptions, website slowdown or unavailability, delays or errors in transaction processing, loss of data or the inability to accept and fulfill customer orders. Security breaches, computer viruses and hacking attacks have become more prevalent in the e-commerce industry. We can provide no assurance that our current security mechanisms will be sufficient to protect our IT systems from third-party intrusions, viruses or hacker attacks, information or data theft or other similar activities. Any such future occurrences could reduce customer satisfaction, damage our reputation and result in a material decrease in our revenue. Additionally, we must continue to upgrade and improve our technology platform to support our business growth; failure to do so could impede our growth. However, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in executing these system upgrades and improvement strategies. In particular, our systems may experience interruptions during upgrades, and the new technologies or infrastructures may not be fully integrated with the existing systems on a timely basis, or at all. If our existing or future technology platform does not function properly, it could cause system disruptions and slow response times, affecting data transmission, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any interruption in our logistics operation, including our warehousing and delivery operations, for an extended period may have an adverse impact on our business. We have set up our own logistics center at Kowloon Bay with a logistics, warehousing and delivery team. Our ability to process and fulfill orders accurately and provide high quality customer service depends on the smooth operation of our logistics team, which includes our warehousing operation and the delivery services provided by our couriers and drivers. Our logistics operations may be vulnerable to damage caused by fire, flood, power outage, telecommunications failure, break-ins, human error and other events. If any of our warehouse or delivery services were rendered incapable of operation, then we may be unable to fulfill relevant orders. We do not carry business interruption insurance, and the occurrence of any of the foregoing risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We may incur liability or become subject to penalties for counterfeit or unauthorized products sold on our website, or for products sold on our website or content posted on our website that infringe on third-party intellectual property rights, or for other misconduct. As of April 27, 2015, our online shopping mall has over 350 stores offering a variety of products in categories which include fashion, mother and baby, skin care and make up, personal care, medicine and health, supermarket, food and wine, household, music, video and books, games, toys and stationery, outdoor and sports, pet care, and digital and electronics products. A substantial majority of such products and services are offered by third-party merchants through our online shopping platform which functions as a marketplace for such third parties. We also directly sell from our own inventory a small portion of the products and services on our online shopping platform. Some of products offered on our online shopping platform may be defectively designed or manufactured. 15 Table of Contents In addition to acting as a marketplace for merchants, we also source a small portion of products in our inventory from third-party suppliers. Third-party sellers on our online marketplace are separately responsible for sourcing the products they sell on our website. Although we have adopted measures to verify the authenticity and authorization of products sold on our website and avoid potential infringement of third-party intellectual property rights in the course of sourcing and selling products, we may not always be successful. In the event that counterfeit, unauthorized or infringing products are sold on our website, or infringing content is posted on our website, we could face claims that we should be held liable. Irrespective of the validity of such claims, we could incur significant cost and effort in either defending against or settling such claims. If there is a successful claim against us, we might be required to pay substantial damages or refrain from further sale of the relevant products. Potential liability under Hong Kong law if we negligently participated or assisted in infringement activities associated with counterfeit goods includes injunctions to cease infringing activities, rectification, compensation, administrative penalties and even criminal liability. Moreover, such third-party claims or administrative penalties could result in negative publicity, and our reputation could be severely damaged. Any of these events could have a material and adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations or financial condition. Our results of operations may be subject to seasonal fluctuations. We may experience seasonality in our online shopping business similar to other retail businesses in Hong Kong. For example, sales in the traditional retail industry are significantly higher in the fourth quarter of each calendar year than in the preceding three quarters. Given that our OTT services were launched only in November 2014 and our online shopping mall formally began operations only in February 2015, we are still assessing the significance of any seasonal fluctuations in our business and their impact on our results of operations. Our business, financial conditions and results of operations for future periods may experience seasonal fluctuations. Risks Relating to the Regulatory, Political and Economic Environment We are subject to consumer protection laws that could require us to modify our current business practices and incur increased costs. We are subject to Hong Kong laws and regulations that regulate retailers generally or govern online retailers specifically. If these regulations were to change or if we, suppliers or third-party sellers on our marketplace were to violate them, the costs of certain products or services could increase, or we could be subject to fines or penalties or suffer reputational harm, which could reduce demand for the products or services offered on our website and hurt our business and results of operations. Legal requirements are frequently changed and subject to interpretation, and we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. We may be required to make significant expenditure or modify our business practices to comply with existing or future laws and regulations, which may increase our costs and materially limit our ability to operate our business. We may be adversely affected by the complexity, uncertainties and changes in Hong Kong regulation of Internet-related businesses. We are subject to Hong Kong laws and regulations that regulate the Internet industry. The Internet-related laws and regulations are relatively new and evolving, and their interpretation and enforcement involve significant uncertainties. As a result, in certain circumstances it may be difficult to determine what actions or omissions may be deemed to be in violation of applicable laws and regulations. New laws and regulations may be promulgated that will regulate Internet activities, including online retail. If these new laws and regulations are promulgated, additional licenses may be required for our operations. If our operations do not comply with these new regulations at the time they become effective, or if we fail to obtain any licenses required under these new laws and regulations, we could be subject to penalties which may materially and adversely affect our business, prospectus, results of operations and financial condition. Currency fluctuations of the Hong Kong dollar, our functional currency, may increase our operating costs and adversely affect our profitability. We are exposed to foreign exchange risk because our expected revenue will be predominantly denominated in Hong Kong dollars, while a portion of our operating costs and some of our capital expenditure plans are expected to be denominated in U.S. dollars, Renminbi or other foreign currencies. In addition, a significant portion of our investments in available-for-sale securities and deposits is denominated in U.S. dollars and Renminbi. Although the Hong Kong dollar has been linked to the U.S. dollar since 1983, it may not continue to be linked. Any material depreciation of the Hong Kong dollar against the U.S. dollar, Renminbi or other currencies would increase our operating costs, make some of our capital expenditure plans more expensive and adversely affect our profitability. In addition, any depreciation in U.S. dollar or Renminbi against the Hong Kong dollar would reduce the value of our investments in available-for-sale securities and deposits. 16 Table of Contents Our Chairman and Vice Chairman have significant ownership interests in the Company. They could engage in transactions that could conflict with the interests of our shareholders. Our Chairman and Vice Chairman each have an indirect ownership interest in our Company through Top Group International Limited, which, as of April 27, 2015, held approximately 42.00% of the Company’s shares, of which 42.12% and 27.06% was owned by our Chairman and Vice Chairman, respectively. Top Group International Limited is a special purpose vehicle incorporated in the British Virgin Islands. Its board of directors consists of Mr. Wong and Mr. Cheung. Mr. Wong and Mr. Cheung have entered into a voting agreement pursuant to which they agreed to vote the 339,814,284 shares held by Top Group International Limited, the 15,236,893 shares held by Mr. Wong individually, and the 50,377,763 shares held by Mr. Cheung individually, collectively as a group. Our Chairman and Vice Chairman could take actions that may not be in the best interests of our other shareholders. We believe we were a passive foreign investment company for our taxable year ended December 31, 2014, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. Holders of our American depository shares or ordinary shares. Based on the market price of our American depository shares, the value of our assets, and the composition of our income and assets, we believe we were a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our taxable year ended December 31, 2014. In addition, it is likely one or more of our subsidiaries were also PFICs for such year. A non-U.S. corporation will be a PFIC for any taxable year if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for such year is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets) during such year is attributable to assets that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income (the “asset test”). In general, the total value of our assets for purposes of the asset test will be determined based on the market price of our American depositary shares and ordinary shares. A separate determination must be made after the close of each taxable year as to whether we were a PFIC for that year. Because the value of our assets for purposes of the PFIC test will generally be determined by reference to the market price of our American depositary shares and ordinary shares, our PFIC status will depend in large part on the market price of the American depositary shares and ordinary shares, which may fluctuate significantly. Furthermore, unless our share value increases and/or we invest a substantial amount of our cash and other passive assets in assets that produce active income, there is a significant risk we will be a PFIC for our taxable year ending December 31, 2015. Because we believe we were a PFIC for our taxable year ended December 31, 2014, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences could apply to a U.S. Holder (as defined in “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation”) who holds an American depository share or an ordinary share with respect to any “excess distribution” received from us and any gain from a sale or other disposition of the American depositary shares or ordinary shares. See “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company.” Risks Relating to Our ADSs As a foreign private issuer, we are not subject to U.S. proxy rules and are subject to Exchange Act reporting obligations that are more lenient than those of a U.S. issuer. As a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from certain provisions of the Exchange Act that are applicable to U.S. domestic issuers, including (i) the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents and authorizations in respect of a security registered under the Exchange Act, (ii) the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and liability for insiders who profit from trades made in a short period of time and (iii) the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the filing with the SEC of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q containing unaudited financial and other specified information, or current reports on Form 8-K upon the occurrence of specified significant events. In addition, the executive compensation disclosure requirements to which we are subject under Form 20-F are less rigorous than those required of U.S. issuers under Form 10-K. Furthermore, foreign private issuers are not required to file their annual report on Form 20-F until 120 days after the end of each fiscal year, while U.S. domestic issuers that are not large accelerated filers or accelerated filers are required to file their annual report on Form 10-K within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year. Foreign private issuers are also exempt from Regulation FD, aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosure of material information. Holders of ADSs must act through the depositary to exercise their rights as shareholders of our Company. Holders of our ADSs do not have the same rights as our shareholders and may only exercise the voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement for the ADSs. If you are a holder of our ADSs, when a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient notice to permit you to withdraw your ordinary shares to allow you to cast your vote with respect to any specific matter. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to you or carry out your voting instructions in a timely manner. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to you in a timely manner, but you might not receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your ADSs. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if your ADSs are not voted as you requested. In addition, in your capacity as an ADS holder, you will not be able to call a shareholders’ meeting. 17 Table of Contents Except in limited circumstances, the depositary for our ADSs will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs if you do not vote at shareholders’ meetings, which could adversely affect your interests. Holders of our ordinary shares are not subject to this discretionary proxy. You may be subject to limitations on the transfer of ADSs. Our ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deems it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings, and you may not receive cash dividends or other distributions if it is impractical to make them available to you. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Also, under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not make rights available to you unless either both the rights and any related securities are registered under the Securities Act or the distribution of them to ADS holders is exempted from registration under the Securities Act. We are not obligated to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. The holding, acquisition or exercise of voting control by non-Hong Kong resident ADS holders and shareholders may be restricted if we obtain a free TV license. The holding, acquisition or exercise of voting control of a free TV license by persons who do not meet certain Hong Kong residency requirements as set out in the Broadcasting Ordinance (“Unqualified Voting Controllers”) is restricted in various ways by the Broadcasting Ordinance. Such restrictions include, but are not limited to, the requirement for prior approval from the CA for the holding, acquisition or exercise of voting control by an Unqualified Voting Controller of more than 2% of a licensee and restrictions on the exercise of “voting control” by such Unqualified Voting Controller. Under the Broadcasting Ordinance, “voting control” means “the control of or the ability to control, whether directly or indirectly, the exercise of the right to vote attaching to one or more voting shares of a licensee.” If we obtain a free TV license, our Company and any Unqualified Voting Controller will be subject to these restrictions. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulatory Framework—Domestic Free Television Programme Services—Foreign Ownership Restrictions.” 