D. Risk Factors Investment in our ordinary shares or ADSs involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the following information about these risks, together with the other information contained in this annual report, before you decide whether to buy our ordinary shares or ADSs. i-CABLE is subject to various changing regulatory, competitive, economic, political and social risks and conditions, which are described below: We have effectuated the delisting of our ADSs from Nasdaq and may terminate the registration of our securities with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in the future and this may adversely affect our share price. On May 15, 2007, we announced that our board of directors has approved the delisting of our ADSs from Nasdaq. The delisting was sought due to limited trading volume of the ADSs and the time and cost of maintaining a listing in the United States. On May 29, 2007, we filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission a Form 25 to effect the delisting from Nasdaq as from June 8, 2007. Since the delisting, our ADRs have been traded in the over-the-counter markets, and the Bank of New York has continued to act as our ADR depositary pursuant to the existing Deposit Agreement. We have not arranged for the listing of our ADSs or ordinary shares on another national securities exchange in the United States. We plan to maintain our ADR program in the United States, but the liquidity of our ADSs may be adversely affected by their delisting from Nasdaq. Further, where circumstances permit, we may terminate our registration as a reporting company under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act. Deregistration will eliminate our obligation to file annual reports on Form 20-F and current reports on Form 6-K. Accordingly, in the event of a deregistration, ADR holders may 6 Table of Contents receive less details concerning our principal shareholders, directors and executive officers, compensation paid our executives, audited financial statements and certain relationships in related transactions between related parties, which under certain circumstances could better enable the ADR holders to assess our financial operations and policies. The delisting of our ADSs from Nasdaq and the possible termination of our registration as a reporting company under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act may have a negative impact on the price of our ADSs and ordinary shares. Any significant change in our ability to pay dividends or our dividend policy may adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Although we have declared and paid dividends in respect of the years ended December 31, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006, there can be no assurance that we will declare and pay dividends in the future or that we will maintain our current dividend policy. Any significant change in our ability to pay a dividend or our dividend policy may adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares and ADSs. We reported net losses in previous years and we may incur net losses in the future. Although we have recorded net profits for each year since 2000, we reported net losses from 1993 when we began our pay-TV operation until 1999. As of December 31, 2006, our consolidated accumulated losses were HK$4,612 million. Our ability to maintain profitability will depend on the growth of our existing business and the success of our new products and services, our program acquisition costs which are being driven up by competition, as well as general market conditions. If we do not remain profitable or our accumulated losses are not offset by future profits, our financing needs may increase, we may not be able to pay dividends in the future and the market price of our ordinary shares and/or ADSs may be adversely affected. We may need to incur substantial capital expenditures to keep pace with technological developments or our customers’ demand for new products and services. This may adversely affect our financial condition. The markets for pay-TV, Internet access services and related services are characterized by rapidly changing technology, industry standards, subscriber needs and new products and services. The emerging nature of these products and services and their rapid evolution will require us to continually improve the performance, features and reliability of our network, Internet content and consumer services, especially in response to our competitors’ offerings. We may not be successful in responding quickly, cost effectively or sufficiently to these developments. In addition, services or technologies developed by competitors may render our services or technologies undesirable or obsolete. Some of our competitors offer broadband Internet access service with bandwidth advantage over our broadband Internet access service in the residential market. Furthermore, changing our services in response to market demand may require the adoption of new technologies that could render many of our assets less competitive or obsolete. Even if we respond successfully to technological advances and emerging industry standards, the integration of new technology may require substantial capital expenditures. This may adversely affect our financial condition. We may not be successful in modifying our network infrastructure in a timely and cost-effective manner. In addition, our new products and services may contain design flaws or other defects that could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We do not intend to conduct our own research and development of new technologies. Illegal viewing activities may affect our pay-TV subscriber growth and subscription revenue. Our pay-TV business is dependent upon subscription revenue. We are aware that some viewers in Hong Kong use unauthorized pay-TV decoders to receive our pay-TV service illegally. Although we have migrated our transmissions from analog to digital platforms in order to better control and limit illegal viewing activities, manufacturers or vendors of unauthorized pay-TV decoders have so far been able to repeatedly overcome our various digital encryption methods. Illegal activities have continued and we are aware that pirated digital set-top-boxes are available in the market. We have been deploying countermeasures to combat such activities. If we fail to deploy appropriate and timely countermeasures in response to such activities, illegal viewing activities may grow. Such illegal viewing activities will adversely affect the growth of our pay-TV subscriber base and our subscription revenue. 7 Table of Contents The loss of key employees, including senior management, and our failure to recruit qualified personnel as needed could weaken our strategic, technological and operational expertise, delay the introduction of new products and services and lower the quality of our services. In early 2006, a member of our senior management decided to leave us. We may not be able to attract and retain key employees, including our senior management. Our key employees may be recruited by our competitors. This could hinder the introduction of our new products and services as planned. Our operations could suffer with the loss of any member of our senior management team or any key employee. Our success also depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel for strategic planning, programming and enhanced services, including Internet, marketing and network operations. The competition for qualified personnel in the Internet services and pay-TV industry may increase in the future, making it difficult for us to attract and retain qualified personnel in the Internet services and pay-TV industry. Our programming costs are substantial and may increase, which could reduce our margins if we are unable to pass on any such increase to our subscribers. The growth and revenues for our pay-TV services depend on our ability to produce or purchase programming that is affordable to our subscribers. The cost of some of our acquired programming has increased in the past and may increase substantially in the future if competition in the pay-TV and television services markets intensifies. If we are not able to pass on programming cost increases to our subscribers, our revenues, cash flow and operating margins may be reduced. We carry various soccer events on our pay-TV platform. The costs of the exclusive rights to carry these soccer events have increased in the past. In particular, the English Premier League has been the most popular soccer event on our platform. The exclusive rights to carry the English Premier League expired in May 2007. Due to the high costs of the telecasting rights for the next three seasons spanning from August 2007 through May 2010, we were not able to renew English Premier League, and the event will be exclusively carried by our key competitor, PCCW. We currently have exclusive rights to other soccer and sports events and we intend to acquire new rights to other sports programming. For example, we had exclusive rights to carry other top European soccer events including the Spanish and German soccer leagues and the prestigious U.S. PGA Tour. We also had exclusive rights to carry major tennis tournaments such as the French Open and the U.S. Open. However, the acquisition costs for exclusive rights to carry these sports events are substantial. In future, the costs of the exclusive rights to carry these sports events may increase significantly. If we are not able to pass on the increase in these costs to our subscribers, our revenues, cash flow and operating margins may be reduced. New digital pay-TV channels may add to our programming costs and may adversely affect our profitability. Digital broadcasting allows the compression of pay-TV signals, which increases our effective channel capacity. We intend to utilize this additional capacity by increasing the number of pay-TV channels offered on our digital platform. We now offer 103 channels with 69 channels in our basic package. During 2006, a total of 10 new channels were added to our digital platform. The channels were either included in the basic package or mini packages to derive additional revenues from existing as well as new subscribers. We incur significant costs for producing or acquiring content for these channels. If we are unable to pass on these costs to our pay-TV subscribers, our profitability may be adversely affected. Demand for our broadband Internet access service may not continue to grow. The success of our broadband Internet access service (also known as “broadband” service) will require continued growth in the use of the Internet and the demand for broadband services in Hong Kong. Although our broadband Internet subscriber base has been growing since the launch of the service in March 2000, this growth trend may not continue. We believe the overall penetration in the residential market has flattened out and our share of that market and ARPU have been flat and may come under pressure as competitors roll out higher bandwidth services. Critical issues concerning the increased use of the Internet, including security, reliability, cost, ease of access and quality of service are likely to affect future demand for our broadband service. The competitive pressures to provide low-cost broadband access may impact our ability to charge subscription fees at favorable rates. The demand for our broadband access service may decline or it may not command the fees necessary to permit us to maintain or increase the profitability of our broadband business. 8 Table of Contents The competition we face from other television broadcasters and Internet service providers may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Other operators began rolling out bundled voice, data and television service in earnest in 2004, causing the markets for pay-television, Internet access and related services in Hong Kong to become more competitive. PCCW began to roll out bundled packages with aggressive marketing and pricing strategies. In response, we rolled out a bundled pay-TV and broadband package in May 2004. We subsequently rolled out pay-TV and broadband packages that are bundled with local VoIP service provided by one of our affiliates. The VoIP service enables subscribers to make and receive calls using traditional telephone handsets connected to a voice-enabled cable modem. In June 2005, PCCW completed the acquisition of a mobile phone service provider named SUNDAY Communications Limited. Since the acquisition, PCCW has marketed voice, data or television services that are bundled with the mobile phone service offered by SUNDAY Communications Limited. Since we do not presently operate any mobile phone service, we are not able to provide any pay TV or broadband service that are bundled with mobile phone service without cooperating with a local mobile phone service provider. Our competitors may in the future become even more aggressive in pricing their services. This may lead us to further reduce our prices for similar services, causing our revenue to decline. This high level of competition may also result in a loss of our subscribers and may significantly increase our programming costs, resulting in a decrease in our cash flow and operating margin. We face strong competition in the television services market from Hong Kong’s free-to-air networks, Asia Television Limited and Television Broadcasts Limited, commonly known as ATV and TVB. The Hong Kong Government announced in July 2004 the implementation framework for digital terrestrial TV, or DTT. The existing two terrestrial TV broadcasters, ATV and TVB, are required to launch DTT before the end of 2007 and achieve at least 75% of coverage in 2008. Subject to further market and technical studies, the Government aims to switch off analog broadcasting in 2012. ATV plans to provide a hybrid digital service of HDTV and multi-channel broadcasting whereas TVB plans to provide an HDTV channel with no fewer than 14 hours per day of HDTV programmes. DTT will among other things enable the addition of free-to-air TV channels in Hong Kong and may adversely affect our pay-TV business. In addition, two pay-TV services were launched during the third quarter of 2003. They are operated by the incumbent telecommunications service provider, PCCW, and another telecommunications service provider, Hong Kong Broadband Network. In February 2004, Galaxy Satellite Broadcasting Limited launched its pay-TV service under the brand name SuperSUN TV, which was renamed TVB Pay Vision following the conclusion of a carriage agreement with PCCW in 2006. TVB Pay Vision is 49% owned by TVB, the dominant free-to-air television operator in Hong Kong. These new pay-TV service providers may cause us to lose market share and encounter pricing pressure in the future. New technologies and services introduced by the companies mentioned above may increase competition against our services in the future, which may lead to a decrease in the number of subscribers and a decline in our market share in the pay-television market or in the market of Internet access and related services. As operators compete strongly in the areas of rates and services, we may not be able to maintain existing subscribers at the levels we expect and may need to incur additional costs than we expect, including various rate revisions, to maintain existing subscribers and attract new subscribers. Our pay-TV ARPU or broadband ARPU may decrease as a result. The opening up of our network to other service providers may negatively affect our revenues and profitability. Under our fixed telecommunication network services license, we are required to open up our network to other telecommunications and television service providers through interconnection arrangements. The opening up of our network may lead to increased competition which may negatively affect our subscriber base, revenues and operating profit. Although we expect to derive revenues from the service providers to whom we open up our network, we may not be able to charge these service providers fees high enough to compensate for the loss in revenues and operating profit due to increased competition. If this is the case, the revenues from, and operating profit of, our pay-TV and broadband business may be negatively affected. 9 Table of Contents We may encounter pricing pressure and experience an adverse impact on our subscriber base for broadband Internet access service as a result of competition from alternative Internet access platforms. The Hong Kong Government is creating a regulatory regime that will accelerate the introduction of new broadband and wireless platforms in Hong Kong. The development of these alternative Internet access platforms, such as third-generation mobile phone services, satellite interactive services, and local wireless fixed network services may intensify competition. As a result, we may encounter pricing pressure and experience an adverse impact on our subscriber base for our broadband Internet access service. We may not be able to acquire or retain the right to broadcast certain TV content. Our pay-TV service includes broadcasting of TV content that we acquire from third parties. In the event we do not acquire or retain the right to broadcast certain TV content, we may acquire rights to broadcast alternative TV content in substitution. Such alternative TV content may not be available on the same terms, or at all, and any loss of TV content or inability to obtain the rights to provide suitable alternative TV content could adversely affect the quality of our pay-TV service. In the event that we retain certain TV content on terms and conditions significantly different from prior agreements, our programming costs and/or pay-TV subscription revenues may be adversely affected. We carry various soccer events on our pay-TV platform. In particular, the exclusive rights for English Premier League, which has been the most popular soccer event on our platform, expired in May 2007. Due to the high costs of the telecasting rights for the next three seasons spanning from August 2007 through May 2010, we were not able to renew the contract for the English Premier League. For the next three seasons beginning in August 2007, we will no longer have the rights to broadcast the English Premier League and our pay-TV revenue may be severely affected as a result. We intend to retain or acquire exclusive rights to other soccer and sports events. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to acquire exclusive rights, or that such rights will not become non-exclusive in the future. We may be unable to acquire or produce substitute TV content to offset the effect of the loss of exclusive rights to certain TV content on our pay-TV platform. Our pay-TV revenue may be adversely affected as a result. Even if we are able to acquire certain rights, the acquisition costs may be so high that our profitability will be adversely affected. Any small percentage change in our operating expenses may significantly reduce our consolidated earnings. In 2006, our total operating expenses accounted for as much as 92% of our total operating revenues. A high proportion of our operating expenses are fixed and do not vary in proportion to the number of our subscribers. Any small percentage change in our operating expenses may significantly reduce our consolidated earnings. Our network system may fail or shut down, which may adversely affect the quality of our pay-TV or Internet services. Any failure to maintain a consistent level of high-quality service could harm our reputation and have a material effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our network is vulnerable to damage or cessation of operations from fire, earthquakes, severe storms, power loss, telecommunications failures, network software flaws, transmission cable cuts and other catastrophic events. We may experience failures or shutdowns relating to individual points of presence or even catastrophic failure of our entire network. Our insurance coverage may not cover such losses or, even if such losses are covered by our insurance, may not be sufficient to cover all losses arising from such events. Any failure of our network, our servers, or any link in the delivery chain, whether from operational disruption, natural disaster or otherwise, resulting in an interruption in our operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our network is potentially vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptive problems caused by our subscribers or other Internet users. Computer viruses, break-ins or other problems could lead to the following problems: • interruption, delay or cessation in service to our subscribers; • compromised security of confidential information stored in the computer systems of our subscribers; and • costly litigation. 10 Table of Contents The success of our pay-TV and broadband Internet access service depends on our ability to maintain high-quality transmission with minimal service disruptions or interference. This will be critical to our ability to attract and retain subscribers. We have launched a satellite channel targeted primarily at Mainland China. This channel continues to incur losses and it may not become profitable. We have launched a satellite channel targeted primarily at Mainland China. The channel is available in hotels that are rated at or above three stars, foreign compounds, and other select areas in Mainland China. The relevant television market in Mainland China is highly competitive. The channel has incurred losses since its launch and is expected to incur losses in its initial years of operation. In addition, any adverse development in the economic, political or legal environment in Mainland China could have a negative effect on the operations and financial condition of this channel. We established a wholly-owned subsidiary to embark on film production. This new subsidiary may cause volatility in our consolidated earnings and may not become profitable. In 2005, we established a wholly-owned subsidiary, Sundream Motion Pictures Limited (“Sundream”), to engage in film production. Sundream released its first ever movie in February 2006 and released a second movie in November 2006. In addition to the two movies already released, Sundream has completed three other movies during the year 2006. We are new to the film production industry and we will have to seek qualified personnel from external sources to be successful. We may not be able to attract personnel with appropriate expertise or experience in the film industry. The protection of intellectual property is essential for any film production business. Any infringement of our intellectual property may significantly reduce our revenue from the films we produce. The existing or future regulatory environment and law enforcement mechanism in the markets where our films are released may not offer adequate levels of protection from intellectual property infringement or we may not be effective in enforcing our intellectual property rights in any of these markets. The financial performance of Sundream may vary significantly across different financial periods as our production may fluctuate in terms of quantity as well as quality. There is no assurance that this subsidiary will become profitable and may cause volatility in our consolidated earnings. We are diversifying our business into cross media ventures in Mainland China. These new ventures may cause volatility in our consolidated earnings and may not become profitable. In 2006, we acquired a 70% stake in Teamwork Zhuoran Advertising Limited, a PRC company now renamed Ad On Media Limited (“AOM”), to engage in advertising businesses on behalf of a PRC magazine called Sanlian Life Weekly. We are in the process of launching several publications in the PRC as part of our cross-media strategies. There is no assurance that these businesses will become profitable and may cause volatility in our consolidated earnings. Our failure to maintain the adequacy to our internal controls in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could subject us to regulatory actions and may adversely affect our stock price and our ability to raise additional capital. Beginning with the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, Section 404 requires us to perform an evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting and file annual management assessments of their effectiveness with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The management assessment to be filed is required to include a certification of our internal controls by our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. In addition, beginning with the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007, our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to issue an attestation report on our internal controls over financial reporting. Although our management concluded that our internal control over our financial reporting for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 was effective, we may discover other deficiencies in the course of our future evaluation of our internal control over our financial reporting and may be unable to rectify such deficiencies in a timely manner. Moreover, in future years, even if our 11 Table of Contents management concludes that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may still be unable to issue an attestation report that concludes that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal control is necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and is important to prevent fraud. As a result, our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could subject us to regulatory scrutiny and result in a loss of public confidence in our management, which could, among other things, adversely affect the price of our ADSs and ordinary shares and our ability to raise additional capital. There may be political risks associated with doing business in Hong Kong A significant part of our facilities and operations are currently located in Hong Kong. Hong Kong is a Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China, with its own executive, judicial and legislative branches. Hong Kong enjoys a high degree of autonomy from China under the principle of “one country, two systems”. However, we can give no assurance that Hong Kong will continue to enjoy the same level of autonomy from China. Any intervention by the government of China in the affairs of Hong Kong, in breach of the “one country, two systems” principle, may adversely affect our revenues and our share prices. The state of Hong Kong’s economy may affect our profitability. As we are principally engaged in the provision of pay-TV and broadband services in Hong Kong, our financial position and the results of our operations will be affected by the conditions of the pay-TV and Internet access markets in Hong Kong, which may in turn be influenced by the general state of the Hong Kong economy, changes in the Hong Kong regulatory environment, and changes in demand and usage habits of Hong Kong consumers. We have limited control over any of these factors. The Hong Kong economy has experienced considerable volatility during the late 1990s and from 2000 to 2003, and there can be no assurance that it will not experience volatility in the future. This could adversely affect our business operations. We may be liable for information disseminated over our Internet services network, which could increase our costs or cause us to discontinue certain services or content offerings. We may be required to spend substantial resources or discontinue certain services or content offerings as a result of liability under Hong Kong law for dissemination of information, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Hong Kong law relating to liability of Internet service providers for information carried on or disseminated through their networks is new and untested. The imposition of potential liability upon Internet service providers, such as liability for defamatory speech or copyright infringement, for materials carried on or disseminated over a network may cause us to adopt measures that may reduce our exposure to such liability. We do not carry errors and omissions insurance which, under certain circumstances, could mitigate any damages incurred by us. Rights of shareholders under Hong Kong law may not provide expected levels of protection for shareholders. Our corporate affairs are governed by our constitutive documents and by the laws of Hong Kong. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Hong Kong law are not as clearly established as under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain jurisdictions in the United States. Therefore, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by our management, directors or our controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in some jurisdictions in the United States. Certain judgments obtained against us by our shareholders may not be enforceable in Hong Kong. We are a Hong Kong company and most of our assets are located outside the United States. Substantially all of our current operations are conducted in Hong Kong. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. All or a substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. In addition, there is uncertainty as to 12 Table of Contents whether the courts of Hong Kong would recognize or enforce judgments of United States courts obtained against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether Hong Kong courts would be competent to hear original actions brought in Hong Kong against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. Forward-looking statements reflect current expectations and may not be correct. This document contains various forward-looking statements, including statements regarding our expectations and projections for future operating performance and business prospects. The words “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “project” and similar words identify forward-looking statements. In addition, all statements other than statements of historical facts included herein are forward-looking statements. These statements are forward-looking and reflect our current expectations. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct. Such statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including changes in the economic and political environments in Hong Kong. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the reference to these risks. 