Item 1A. Risk Factors Trends, Risks and Uncertainties Overview This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes “forward-looking statements,” as that term is defined in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). All statements, other than statements of historical facts, included or incorporated in this Form 10-K could be deemed forward-looking statements, particularly statements about our plans, strategies and prospects under the headings “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Business.” Forward-looking statements are often characterized by the use of words such as “believes,” “estimates,” “expects,” “projects,” “may,” “will,” “intends,” “plans,” or “anticipates,” or by 19 Table of Contents discussions of strategy, plans or intentions. All forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K are made based on our current expectations and estimates, and involve risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause results or events to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements. Among these factors are, as discussed more below, our revenues and operating performance, poor economic conditions and markets (including the current credit and financial conditions), the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry, changes in demand for our products, changes in inventories at our customers and distributors, technological and product development risks, availability of raw materials, competitors’ actions, pricing and gross margin pressures, loss of key customers, order cancellations or reduced bookings, changes in manufacturing yields, control of costs and expenses, significant litigation, risks associated with acquisitions and dispositions (including the recently completed acquisition of CMD), risks associated with our substantial leverage and restrictive covenants in our debt agreements, risks associated with our international operations, the threat or occurrence of international armed conflict and terrorist activities both in the United States and internationally, risks and costs associated with regulation of corporate governance and disclosure standards (including pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002), and risks involving environmental or other governmental regulation. Additional factors that could affect our future results or events are described from time to time in our SEC reports. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. We assume no obligation to update such information. You should carefully consider the trends, risks and uncertainties described below and other information in this Form 10-K and subsequent reports filed with or furnished to the SEC before making any investment decision with respect to our securities. If any of the following trends, risks or uncertainties actually occurs or continues, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected, the trading prices of our securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. All forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by this cautionary statement. Trends, Risks and Uncertainties Related to Our Business We have experienced declines in revenues and have incurred operating losses, and we may experience additional declines in revenues and incur additional operating losses in the future. At times our historical financial results have been subject to substantial fluctuations and during those times we have experienced declines in revenues and incurred operating losses. Although, we have recently experienced some strength in our results over the course of the past couple fiscal years, reduced end-user demand, price declines, excess inventory, underutilization of our manufacturing capacity and other factors could adversely affect our business. We also currently face an environment of declining revenues, uncertain demand and pricing pressure in the markets our products address. In order to remain profitable, we must continue to successfully implement our business plan, including our cost reduction initiatives. We operate in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry, which is subject to significant downturns and upturns. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and, as a result, is subject to significant downturns and upturns. The industry has experienced significant downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles (for semiconductors and for the end-user products in which they are used) and declines in general economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. On the other hand, significant upturns have led to increased customer demand for our products and the risk of not being able to meet this demand in a timely and cost efficient manner. In some ways, we have experienced these conditions in our business in the past and may experience these in the future. We cannot accurately predict the timing of the current and future downturns and upturns in the semiconductor industry and how severe and prolonged these conditions might be. These future conditions in the semiconductor industry could seriously impact our revenues and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents Current economic conditions, including those related to the credit markets, may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. The United States and global economy is currently undergoing a period of slowdown and unprecedented volatility, and the future economic environment may continue to be less favorable for the foreseeable future. This slowdown has and could further lead to reduced consumer and commercial spending in the foreseeable future. In addition, the semiconductor industry has traditionally been highly cyclical and has often experienced significant downturns in connection with, or in anticipation of, declines in general economic conditions. Reduced spending has and may continue to drive us and our competitors to reduce product pricing, which would have a negative impact on gross profit. A continued softening in the economy may adversely and materially affect our industry, business and results of operations and we can not accurately predict how severe and prolonged any downturn might be. Moreover, reduced revenues as a result of a softening of the economy may also reduce our working capital and interfere with our short term and long term strategies. Furthermore, the United States and global credit markets continue to experience unprecedented contraction. As a result of the tightened credit markets, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. If one or more of the financial institutions that support our existing credit facilities fails, we may not be able to find a replacement, which would negatively impact our ability to borrow under our credit facilities. In addition, if the current pressures on credit continue or worsen, we may not be able to refinance, if necessary, our outstanding debt when due, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. While we believe we have adequate sources of liquidity to meet our anticipated requirements for working capital, debt service and capital expenditures for the immediate future, if our operating results falter and our cash flow or capital resources prove inadequate, or if interest rates increase significantly, we could face liquidity problems that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the ongoing global financial and economic crisis affecting the financial and other markets could impact our business in a number of other ways, including: • Uncertainty about current and future economic conditions may cause our customers and consumers in general to defer purchases. • The inability of customers to obtain sufficient credit to finance purchases of our products and meet their payment obligations to us could adversely impact our financial results. • Our ability to adequately service our customers depends on our ability to obtain timely and adequate delivery of quality materials, parts and components from our suppliers. If certain key suppliers were to become capacity constrained or insolvent as a result of the financial crisis, it could result in a reduction or interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of supplies and adversely impact our financial results. In addition, credit constraints at key suppliers could result in acceleration of payment due from us which might adversely affect our cash flow. • In light of existing economic conditions, certain of our customers may need us to extend additional credit commitments and a continuation of the current credit crisis could require us to make difficult decisions between increasing our level of customer financing or potentially losing sales to these customers. We may continue to make strategic acquisitions of other companies or businesses and these acquisitions introduce significant risks and uncertainties, including risks related to integrating the acquired businesses, incurring additional debt, assuming contingent liabilities or diluting our existing stockholders. In order to position ourselves to take advantage of growth opportunities, we have made, and may continue to make, strategic acquisitions, mergers and alliances that involve significant risks and uncertainties. Successful acquisitions and alliances in the semiconductor industry are difficult to accomplish because they require, among other things, efficient integration and aligning of product offerings and manufacturing operations and coordination of sales and marketing and research and development efforts. We face risks resulting from the 21 Table of Contents expansion of our operations through acquisitions, including but not limited to, (1) the difficulty of integrating, aligning and coordinating organization, which will likely be geographically separated and involve separate technologies and corporate cultures; (2) our existing or prospective customers may delay or defer their purchasing or other decisions as we integrate new businesses and companies into our business, or they may seek to change their existing business relationships; (3) challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits from acquisitions; (4) the risk that our markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the technologies acquired do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; (5) the risks of entering new markets in which we have limited experience; (6) difficulties in expanding information technology systems and other business processes to accommodate the acquired businesses; (7) risks associated with integrating financial reporting and internal control systems including in the case of companies that we may acquire from time to time which are lacking in financial reporting and internal control systems; and (8) negative pressure on gross margins resulting from the stepped-up valuation of a target’s inventory. Current and prospective employees could experience uncertainty about their future with us, and as a result, we could lose key employees. These uncertainties may also impair our ability to recruit or motivate key personnel. In connection with a transaction, key employees of acquired businesses may receive substantial value in the form of change-in-control agreements, acceleration of stock options and the lifting of restrictions on other equity-based compensation rights. The integration of newly acquired businesses such as PulseCore and CMD will also require a significant amount of time and attention from management. The diversion of management attention away from ongoing operations and key research and development, marketing or sales efforts could adversely affect ongoing operations and business relationships. In connection with an acquisition, it is possible that we may anticipate tax savings through integration of the newly acquired business into our business and rationalization of a combined infrastructure. As with any estimate, it is possible that the estimates of the potential cost savings could turn out to be incorrect. Moreover, there can be no assurance that integration will result in the realization of the full benefits of synergies, cost savings, innovation and operational efficiencies or that these benefits will be achieved within a reasonable period of time. We review goodwill associated with our acquisitions for impairment on an annual basis (See “Note 3: Significant Accounting Policies — Goodwill” to the Notes to our consolidated audited financial statements located elsewhere in this Form 10-K for additional information). In the past we recorded goodwill impairment charges related to our acquisitions of AMIS, Cherry Semiconductor Corporation (“Cherry”) and the PTC Business. Factors we consider important that could trigger a subsequent impairment to goodwill include significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, significant changes in the manner of the use of our assets or the strategy for our overall business and significant negative industry or economic trends. If current economic conditions worsen causing decreased revenues and/or increased costs, we may have further material goodwill impairments. In addition, we may also issue equity securities to pay for future acquisitions or alliances, which could be dilutive to existing stockholders. We may also incur debt or assume contingent liabilities in connection with acquisitions and alliances, which could harm our operating results. Our gross profit is dependent on a number of factors, including our level of capacity utilization. Semiconductor manufacturing requires significant capital investment, leading to high fixed costs, including depreciation expense. If we are unable to utilize our manufacturing and testing facilities at a high level, the fixed costs associated with these facilities will not be fully absorbed, resulting in higher average unit costs and lower gross profits. As a percentage of total revenues, gross profit was 35.1% for 2009 compared to 36.3% for 2008, and 37.7% for 2007. Gross profit declined in 2009 primarily due to decreases in prices and the effects of lower volume during the period, partially offset by cost savings from profitability enhancement programs. In 2008, the gross profit percentage declined primarily due to the sale of inventory that was written up to fair value in connection with the acquisitions of ADI, AMIS and Catalyst, as well as the decrease in average selling prices, partially offset by cost reduction activities. In 2007, the gross profit percentage declined because the decrease in average selling prices was not fully offset by cost reduction activities. Increased competition and other factors, including current economic factors, may lead to price erosion, lower revenues and lower margins for us in the future. 22 Table of Contents The failure to implement, as well as the completion and impact of, our profitability enhancement programs and cost reductions could adversely affect our business. From time to time, we have implemented various cost reduction initiatives in response to, among other things, significant downturns in our industry. These initiatives have included accelerating our manufacturing moves into lower cost regions, transitioning higher-cost external supply to internal manufacturing, working with our material suppliers to further lower costs, personnel reductions, reductions in employee compensation, and temporary shutdowns of facilities with mandatory vacation and aggressively streamlining our overhead. In the past, we have recorded net restructuring charges to cover costs associated with our cost reduction initiatives. These costs were primarily comprised of employee separation costs and asset impairments as well as gains on the sale of assets and insurance recoveries. On January 31, 2009, we announced that we intended to accelerate our stand-alone cost reduction programs including a continued focus on the consolidation of our manufacturing operations. During the first quarter of 2009, we commenced certain actions to reduce overall spending levels, which continued through the second quarter of 2009. In addition, during the third quarter of 2009, we announced that employees will be required to take two weeks of paid vacation during the fourth quarter of 2009. For additional information regarding our profitability enhancement programs and cost reduction measures, see “Part II — Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Cost Savings and Restructuring Activities” included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. We cannot assure you that future cost reduction initiatives will be successfully implemented, or will materially impact our profitability. Because our restructuring activities involve changes to many aspects of our business, the cost reductions could adversely impact productivity and sales to an extent we have not anticipated. Even if we fully execute and implement these activities and they generate the anticipated cost savings, there may be other unforeseeable and unintended factors or consequences that could adversely impact our profitability and business, including unintended employee attrition. If we are unable to implement our business strategy, our revenues and profitability may be adversely affected. Our future financial performance and success are largely dependent on our ability to implement our business strategy successfully. Our present business strategy to build upon our position as a global supplier of power and data management semiconductors and standard semiconductor components includes, without limitation, plans to: (1) continue to aggressively manage, maintain and refine our product portfolio; (2) continue to develop leading edge customer support services; (3) further expand our just-in-time delivery capabilities; (4) increase our die manufacturing capacity in a cost-effective manner; (5) further reduce the number of our product platforms and process flows; (6) rationalize our manufacturing operations; (7) relocate manufacturing operations or outsource to lower cost regions; (8) reduce selling and administrative expenses; (9) manage capital expenditures to forecasted production demands; (10) actively manage working capital; (11) develop new products in a more efficient manner; and (12) focus on the development of power management and standard analog and high frequency clock and data management products. We cannot assure you that we will successfully implement our business strategy or that implementing our strategy will sustain or improve our results of operations. In particular, we cannot assure you that we will be able to build our position in markets with high growth potential, increase our volume or revenue, rationalize our manufacturing operations or reduce our costs and expenses. Our business strategy is based on our assumptions about the future demand for our current products and the new products and applications that we are developing and on our ability to produce our products profitably. Each of these factors depends on our ability, among other things, to finance our operating and product development activities, maintain high quality and efficient manufacturing operations, relocate and close manufacturing facilities and reduce operating expenses as part of our ongoing cost restructuring with minimal disruption to our operations, access quality raw materials and contract manufacturing services in a cost-effective and timely manner, protect our intellectual property portfolio and attract and retain highly-skilled technical, managerial, marketing and finance personnel. Several of these and other factors that could affect our ability to implement our 23 Table of Contents business strategy, such as risks associated with international operations, the threat or occurrence of armed international conflict and terrorist activities, increased competition, legal developments and general economic conditions, are beyond our control. In addition, circumstances beyond our control and changes in our business or industry may require us to change our business strategy. We may be unable to make the substantial research and development investments required to remain competitive in our business. The semiconductor industry requires substantial investment in research and development in order to develop and bring to market new and enhanced technologies and products. We are committed to maintaining spending on new product development in order to stay competitive in our markets. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources to maintain the level of investment in research and development that is required to remain competitive. An inability to introduce new products could adversely affect us, and changing technologies or consumption patterns could reduce the demand for our products. Rapidly changing technologies and industry standards, along with frequent new product introductions, characterize the industries that are currently the primary end-users of semiconductors. As these industries evolve and introduce new products, our success will depend on our ability to predict and adapt to these changes in a timely and cost-effective manner by designing, developing, manufacturing, marketing and providing customer support for our own new products and technologies. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify changes in the product markets and requirements of our customers and end-users and adapt to such changes in a timely and cost-effective manner. Nor can we assure you that products or technologies that may be developed in the future by our competitors and others will not render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. A fundamental shift in technologies or consumption patterns in our existing product markets or the product markets of our customers or end-users could have a material adverse effect on our business or prospects. Uncertainties involving the ordering and shipment of, and payment for, our products could adversely affect our business. Our sales are typically made pursuant to individual purchase orders or customer agreements and we generally do not have long-term supply arrangements with our customers. Generally, our customers may cancel orders 30 days prior to shipment without incurring a significant penalty. We routinely purchase inventory based on customers’ estimates of demand for their products, which is difficult to predict. This difficulty may be compounded when we sell to original equipment manufacturers indirectly through distributors or contract manufacturers, or both, as our forecasts for demand are then based on estimates provided by multiple parties. In addition, our customers may change their inventory practices on short notice for any reason. Furthermore, short customer lead times are standard in the industry due to overcapacity. The cancellation or deferral of product orders, the return of previously sold products or overproduction due to the failure of anticipated orders to materialize could result in excess obsolete inventory, which could result in write-downs of inventory or the incurrence of significant cancellation penalties under our arrangements with our raw materials and equipment suppliers. Competition in our industry could prevent us from maintaining our revenues and from raising prices to offset increases in costs. The semiconductor industry, particularly the market for semiconductor components, is highly competitive. As a result of the continuing economic downturn, competition in the markets in which we operate has intensified, as manufacturers of semiconductor components have offered reduced prices in order to combat production 24 Table of Contents overcapacity and high inventory levels. Although only a few companies compete with us in all of our product lines, we face significant competition within each of our product lines from major international semiconductor companies as well as smaller companies focused on specific market niches. In addition, companies not currently in direct competition with us may introduce competing products in the future. The semiconductor components industry has also been undergoing significant restructuring and consolidations that could adversely affect our competitiveness. Many of our competitors, particularly larger competitors resulting from consolidations, may have certain advantages over us, including substantially greater financial and other resources with which to withstand adverse economic or market conditions and pursue development, engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products; longer independent operating histories; presence in key markets; patent protection; and greater name recognition. Because our components are often building block semiconductors that, in some cases, are integrated into more complex integrated circuits, we also face competition from manufacturers of integrated circuits, application-specific integrated circuits and fully customized integrated circuits, as well as customers who develop their own integrated circuit products. We compete in different product lines to various degrees on the basis of price, quality, technical performance, product features, product system compatibility, customized design, strategic relationships with customers, new product innovation, availability, delivery timing and reliability and customer sales and technical support. Gross margins in the industry vary by geographic region depending on local demand for the products in which semiconductors are used, such as personal computers, industrial and telecommunications equipment, consumer electronics and automotive goods. Our ability to compete successfully depends on elements both within and outside of our control, including industry and general economic trends. Unless we maintain manufacturing efficiency, our future profitability could be adversely affected. Manufacturing semiconductor components involves highly complex processes that require advanced equipment. We and our competitors continuously modify these processes in an effort to improve yields and product performance. Impurities or other difficulties in the manufacturing process can lower yields. Our manufacturing efficiency will be an important factor in our future profitability, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our manufacturing efficiency or increase manufacturing efficiency to the same extent as our competitors. From time to time, we have experienced difficulty in beginning production at new facilities, transferring production to other facilities or in effecting transitions to new manufacturing processes that have caused us to suffer delays in product deliveries or reduced yields. We cannot assure you that we will not experience manufacturing problems in achieving acceptable yields or experience product delivery delays in the future as a result of, among other things, capacity constraints, construction delays, transferring production to other facilities, upgrading or expanding existing facilities or changing our process technologies, any of which could result in a loss of future revenues. Our results of operations could also be adversely affected by the increase in fixed costs and operating expenses related to increases in production capacity, if revenues do not increase proportionately. We could be required to incur significant capital expenditures for manufacturing and information technology and equipment to remain competitive, the failure, inadequacy or delayed implementation of which could harm our ability to effectively operate our business. Semiconductor manufacturing has historically required a constant upgrading of process technology to remain competitive, as new and enhanced semiconductor processes are developed which permit smaller, more efficient and more powerful semiconductor devices. We maintain certain of our own manufacturing, assembly and test facilities, which have required and will continue to require significant investments in manufacturing technology and equipment. We have made substantial capital expenditures and installed significant production capacity to support new technologies and increased production volume. 25 Table of Contents We also may incur significant costs to implement new manufacturing and information technologies to increase our productivity and efficiency. Any such implementation, however, can be negatively impacted by failures or inadequacies of the new manufacturing or information technology and unforeseen delays in its implementation, any of which may require us to spend additional resources to correct these problems or, in some instances, to conclude that the new technology implementation should be abandoned. In the case of abandonment, we may have to recognize losses for amounts previously expended in connection with such implementation that have been capitalized on our balance sheet. On January 7, 2009, in connection with several cost reduction measures, we announced our intent to reduce 2009 capital expenditures. Actual expenditures were $55.3 million down from normalized yearly levels of approximately $130 to $140 million. This reduction, and any future reductions, may affect our ability to remain competitive or maintain efficiency and productivity. Ultimately, we may be forced to increase our future capital expenditures to meet our operational needs in, among other areas, manufacturing, information technology and equipment. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient capital resources to make necessary investments in the areas discussed above or other areas we have not identified. If we were to lose one of our large customers our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. Product sales to our ten largest customers have traditionally accounted for a significant amount of our business. Many of our customers operate in cyclical industries, and, in the past, we have experienced significant fluctuations from period to period in the volume of our products ordered. Generally, our agreements with our customers impose no minimum or continuing obligations to purchase our products. We cannot assure you that any of our customers will not significantly reduce orders or seek price reductions in the future or that the loss of one or more of our customers would not have a material adverse effect on our business or prospects. The loss of our sources of raw materials or manufacturing services, or increases in the prices of such goods or services, could adversely affect our operations and productivity. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials in a timely manner or if the costs of our raw materials increase significantly or their quality deteriorates. Our manufacturing processes rely on many raw materials, including polysilicon, silicon wafers, gold, copper lead frames, mold compound, ceramic packages and various chemicals and gases. Generally, our agreements with suppliers impose no minimum or continuing supply obligations, and we obtain our raw materials and supplies from a large number of sources on a just-in-time basis. From time to time, suppliers may extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. Although we believe that our current supplies of raw materials are adequate, shortages could occur in various essential materials due to interruption of supply or increased demand in the industry. In addition, for some of our products, we are dependent upon a limited number of highly specialized suppliers for required components and materials. The number of qualified alternative suppliers for these kinds of technologies is extremely limited. We cannot assure you that we will not lose our suppliers for these key technologies or that our suppliers will be able to meet performance and quality specifications or delivery schedules. Disruption or termination of our limited supply sources for these components and materials could delay our shipments of products utilizing these technologies and damage relationships with current and prospective customers. We also use third-party contractors for some of our manufacturing activities, primarily for wafer fabrication and the assembly and testing of final goods. Our agreements with these manufacturers typically require us to forecast product needs and commit to purchase services consistent with these forecasts, and in some cases require longer-term commitments in the early stages of the relationship. Our operations could be materially adversely affected if these contractual relationships were disrupted or terminated, the cost of such services increased significantly, the quality of the services provided deteriorated or our forecasts proved to be materially incorrect. 26 Table of Contents Our international operations subject us to risks inherent in doing business on an international level that could adversely impact our results of operations. A significant amount of our total revenue is derived from the Americas, the Asia/Pacific region and Europe (including the Middle East). Similarly, we maintain significant operations in these regions. In addition, we rely on a number of contract manufacturers whose operations are primarily located in the Asia/Pacific region. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in overcoming the risks that relate to or arise from operating in international markets. Risks inherent in doing business on an international level include, among others, the following: • economic and political instability (including as a result of the threat or occurrence of armed international conflict or terrorist attacks); • changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs, customs, duties and other trade barriers; • transportation delays; • power supply shortages and shutdowns; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, exposure to foreign labor laws and other employment and labor issues; • currency convertibility and repatriation; • taxation of our earnings and the earnings of our personnel; and • other risks relating to the administration of or changes in, or new interpretations of, the laws, regulations and policies of the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business. In the last few fiscal years, we have benefited from relatively low effective tax rates because most of our income has been earned and reinvested in jurisdictions outside the U.S. Recently-proposed income tax regulations in the United States could, under our existing tax structure, significantly increase our effective tax rate and ultimately reduce our cash flow from operations and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Other activities outside the United States are subject to additional risks associated with fluctuating currency values and exchange rates, hard currency shortages and controls on currency exchange. For instance, while our sales are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars, worldwide semiconductor pricing is influenced by currency rate fluctuations. If we fail to attract and retain highly skilled personnel, our results of operations and competitive position could deteriorate. Our success depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly-skilled technical, managerial, marketing and financial personnel. The market for personnel with such qualifications is highly competitive. For example, analog component designers are difficult to attract and retain, and the failure to attract and retain analog component designers could compromise our ability to keep pace with our competitors in the market for analog components. In addition, in January 2009, we announced certain cost reductions that included the freezing of salaries and elimination of bonuses, mandatory unpaid time off, factory shutdowns and reduction in personnel. These measures, as well as any future cost reduction measures, could negatively affect morale and lead to unintended employee attrition at all levels of our organization. Moreover, we have not entered into employment agreements with all of our key personnel. As employee incentives, we issue common stock options that generally have exercise prices at the market value at time of the grant and that are subject to vesting over time. We have also issued restricted stock units with time-based vesting and performance based awards. Any difficulty relating to obtaining stockholder approval of new or amendments to equity compensation plans could limit our ability to issue these types of awards. Moreover, our stock price at times has declined substantially, reducing the effectiveness of certain of these incentives. Loss of the services of, or failure to effectively recruit, qualified personnel, including senior managers and design engineers, could have a material adverse effect on our business. 27 Table of Contents We use a significant amount of intellectual property in our business. Some of that intellectual property is currently subject to disputes with third parties, and litigation could arise in the future. If we are unable to protect the intellectual property we use, our business could be adversely affected. We rely on patents, trade secrets, trademarks, mask works and copyrights to protect our products and technologies. Some of our products and technologies are not covered by any patents or pending patent applications and we cannot assure you that: • any of the substantial number of U.S. and foreign patents and pending patent applications that we employ in our business, including those that Motorola assigned, licensed or sublicensed to us in connection with our 1999 recapitalization, will not lapse or be invalidated, circumvented, challenged, abandoned or licensed to others; • the license rights granted by Motorola in connection with our recapitalization will provide competitive advantages to us; • the license rights granted by ADI in connection with the PTC Business will provide competitive advantage to us; • the license rights granted by LSI in connection with our acquisition of its Gresham, Oregon semiconductor manufacturing facility will provide competitive advantage to us; • any of our pending or future patent applications will be issued or have the coverage originally sought; • any of the trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, know-how or mask works that Motorola has assigned, licensed or sublicensed to us in connection with our recapitalization will not lapse or be invalidated, circumvented, challenged, abandoned or licensed to others; or • any of our pending or future trademark, copyright, or mask work applications will be issued or have the coverage originally sought. In addition, our competitors or others may develop products or technologies that are similar or superior to our products or technologies, duplicate our products or technologies or design around our protected technologies. Effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable, limited or not applied for in the United States and in foreign countries. Also, we may from time to time in the future be notified of claims that we may be infringing third-party patents or other intellectual property rights. If necessary or desirable, we may seek licenses under such patents or intellectual property rights. However, we cannot assure you that we will obtain such licenses or that the terms of any offered licenses will be acceptable to us. The failure to obtain a license from a third party for technologies we use could cause us to incur substantial liabilities or to suspend the manufacture or shipment of products or our use of processes requiring the technologies. Litigation could cause us to incur significant expense, by adversely affecting sales of the challenged product or technologies and diverting the efforts of our technical and management personnel, whether or not such litigation is resolved in our favor. In the event of an adverse outcome in any such litigation, we may be required to: • pay substantial damages; • cease the manufacture, use, sale or importation of infringing products; • expend significant resources to develop or acquire non-infringing technologies; • discontinue the use of processes; or • obtain licenses to the infringing technologies. We cannot assure you that we would be successful in any such development or acquisition or that any such licenses would be available to us on reasonable terms. Any such development, acquisition or license could require the expenditure of substantial time and other resources. 28 Table of Contents We will also seek to protect our proprietary technologies, including technologies that may not be patented or patentable, in part by confidentiality agreements and, if applicable, inventors’ rights agreements with our collaborators, advisors, employees and consultants. We cannot assure you that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach or that persons or institutions will not assert rights to intellectual property arising out of our research. We may not be able to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights, which may harm our ability to compete and adversely affect our business. Our ability to enforce our patents, copyrights, software licenses and other intellectual property is subject to general litigation risks, as well as uncertainty as to the enforceability of our intellectual property rights in various countries. When we seek to enforce our rights, we are often subject to claims that the intellectual property right is invalid, is otherwise not enforceable or is licensed to the party against whom we are asserting a claim. In addition, our assertion of intellectual property rights often results in the other party seeking to assert alleged intellectual property rights of its own against us, which may adversely impact our business. An unfavorable ruling in these sorts of matters could include money damages or, in cases for which injunctive relief is sought, an injunction prohibiting us from manufacturing or selling one or more products, which could in turn negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We can provide no assurances as to the outcome of these claims asserted by other parties with respect to their alleged intellectual property rights. We are subject to litigation risks, including securities class action litigation, which may be costly to defend and the outcome of which is uncertain. All industries, including the semiconductor industry, are subject to legal claims, with and without merit, including securities class action litigation that may be particularly costly and which may divert the attention of our management and our resources in general. We are involved in a variety of legal matters, most of which we consider routine matters that arise in the normal course of business. These routine matters typically fall into broad categories such as those involving suppliers and customers, employment and labor, and intellectual property. We believe it is unlikely that the final outcome of these legal claims will have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. However, defense and settlement costs can be substantial, even with respect to claims that have no merit. Due to the inherent uncertainty of the litigation process, the resolution of any particular legal claim or proceeding could have a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. As mentioned above, from time to time, we have been, or may in the future be, involved in securities litigation. We can provide no assurance as to the outcome of any securities litigation matter in which we are party. These types of matters are costly to defend and even if resolved in our favor, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Such litigation could also substantially divert the attention of our management and our resources in general. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of securities litigation could harm our ability to compete in the marketplace. Because the price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile, we can provide no assurance that additional securities litigation will not be filed against us in the future. See Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” of this report for more information on our legal proceedings, including our pending securities class action litigation. In addition, our acquisitions have subjected us to additional litigation, including our acquisition of CMD. In December 2009 and in January 2010, three purported class action lawsuits were filed in Delaware and California against us, CMD and its directors. On January 19, 2010, the parties entered into a memorandum of understanding to settle the three lawsuits, subject to court approval and a final settlement agreement. See Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” of this report for more information on these lawsuits. There can be no assurance that the result of these proceedings or any future proceedings that may arise out of our acquisition of CMD will not materially harm our business or adversely effect the integration of CMD into our corporate structure. 29 Table of Contents We are exposed to increased costs and risks associated with complying with increasing and new regulation of corporate governance and disclosure standards, including Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Like most publicly-traded companies, we incur significant cost and spend a significant amount of management time and internal resources to comply with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires management’s annual review and evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and attestations of the effectiveness of these systems by our management and by our independent registered public accounting firm. As we continue to make strategic acquisitions, mergers and alliances, the integration of these businesses increases the complexity of our systems of controls. While we devote significant resources and time to comply with the internal control over financial reporting requirements under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we design, implement and maintain adequate control over our financial process and reporting in the future. We have not been able to ascertain the impact that the integration of CMD will have in the future on our ability to maintain internal control over financial reporting. There can be no assurance that our independent registered public accounting firm will not identify a material weakness in the combined company’s internal control over financial reporting in the future. If internal controls over financial reporting are materially deficient, we may experience a loss of public confidence, which could have a material adverse effect on its business and stock price. See Part II, Item 9A “Controls and Procedures” of this report for information on disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. Environmental and other regulatory matters could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business and could require expenditures that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our manufacturing operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations relating to the management, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances and the emission and discharge of pollutants into the air, water and ground. Our operations are also subject to laws and regulations relating to workplace safety and worker health, which, among other things, regulate employee exposure to hazardous substances. Motorola has agreed to indemnify us for environmental and health and safety liabilities related to the conduct or operations of our business or Motorola’s ownership, occupancy or use of real property occurring prior to the closing of our 1999 recapitalization. We also have purchased environmental insurance to cover certain claims related to historical contamination and future releases of hazardous substances. However, we cannot assure you that such indemnification arrangements and insurance policy will cover all material environmental costs. In addition, the nature of our operations exposes us to the continuing risk of environmental and health and safety liabilities related to events or activities occurring after our recapitalization. Based on information currently available to us, we believe that the future cost of compliance with existing environmental and health and safety laws and regulations, and any liability for currently known environmental conditions, will not have a material adverse effect on our business or prospects. However, we cannot predict: • changes in environmental or health and safety laws or regulations; • the manner in which environmental or health and safety laws or regulations will be enforced, administered or interpreted; • our ability to enforce and collect under indemnity agreements and insurance policies relating to environmental liabilities; or • the cost of compliance with future environmental or health and safety laws or regulations or the costs associated with any future environmental claims, including the cost of clean-up of currently unknown environmental conditions. 30 Table of Contents Warranty claims, product liability claims and product recalls could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to warranty and product liability claims in the event that our products fail to perform as expected or such failure of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury or property damage (or both). In particular, through our AMIS subsidiary, we are subject to warranty and product liability claims relating to the medical market that are disproportional to the revenue we receive from our customers who incorporate our products into their goods or products. In addition, if any of our designed products are or are alleged to be defective, we may be required to participate in their recall. As suppliers become more integrally involved in the electrical design, original equipment manufacturers are increasingly expecting them to warrant their products and are increasingly looking to them for contributions when faced with product liability claims or recalls. A successful warranty or product liability claim against us in excess of our available insurance coverage and established reserves, or a requirement that we participate in a product recall, would have adverse effects (that could be material) on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Trends, Risks and Uncertainties Relating to Our Indebtedness Our substantial debt could impair our financial condition and adversely affect our ability to operate our business. We are highly leveraged and have substantial debt service obligations. In addition, we may incur additional debt in the future, subject to certain limitations contained in our debt instruments. The degree to which we are leveraged could have important consequences to our potential and current investors, including: • our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes may be impaired; • a significant portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of interest and principal on our debt, which reduces the funds available to us for our operations; • some of our debt is and will continue to be at variable rates of interest, which may result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in market interest rates; • our debt agreements contain, and any agreements to refinance our debt likely will contain, financial and restrictive covenants, and our failure to comply with them may result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us; • our level of indebtedness will increase our vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse industry conditions; • as our long-term debt ages, we may need to reclassify or repay such debt or seek additional financing (see Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this report under “Commercial Commitments, Contractual Obligations and Indemnities” of the “Liquidity and Capital Resources” section); • our debt service obligations could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the semiconductor industry; and • our substantial leverage could place us at a competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis our competitors who have less leverage relative to their overall capital structures. We may incur more debt and may require additional capital in the future to service this new debt, which could exacerbate the risks described above. We may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The agreements relating to our outstanding indebtedness currently limit us along with our subsidiaries from incurring additional indebtedness. While we expect to have sufficient cash and cash equivalents for the next 12 months, if we incur additional debt, 31 Table of Contents the related risks that we now face could intensify and it is possible that we may need to raise additional capital to service this new debt and to fund our future activities. Moreover, some of the debt we may incur may be secured by the same collateral securing certain of our existing indebtedness. Ultimately, we may not be able to obtain additional funding on favorable terms, or at all, and we may need to curtail our operations significantly, reduce planned capital expenditures and research and development, or be forced to obtain funds through arrangements that management did not anticipate, including disposing of our assets and relinquishing rights to certain technologies or other activities that may impair our ability to remain competitive. The agreements relating to our indebtedness may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take some actions. Our debt agreements contain, and any future debt agreements may include, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on, among other things, our ability to: • incur additional debt, including guarantees; • incur liens; • sell or otherwise dispose of assets; • make investments, loans or advances; • make some acquisitions; • engage in mergers or consolidations; • make capital expenditures; • pay dividends, redeem capital stock or make certain other restricted payments or investments; • pay dividends from Semiconductor Components Industries, LLC to ON Semiconductor Corporation; • engage in certain sale and leaseback transactions; • enter into new lines of business; • issue some types of preferred stock; and • enter into transactions with our affiliates. Any future debt could contain financial and other covenants more restrictive than those that are currently applicable. Our failure to comply with the agreements relating to our outstanding indebtedness, including as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default, that could materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition. If there were an event of default under any of the agreements relating to our outstanding indebtedness the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be due and payable immediately. We cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments, either upon maturity or if accelerated upon an event of default or, if we were required to repurchase any of our debt securities upon a change of control, that we would be able to refinance or restructure the payments on those debt securities. Further, if we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness under our secured debt, the holders of such debt could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. In addition, any event of default or declaration of acceleration under one debt instrument could also result in an event of default under one or more of our other debt instruments. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service obligations. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to make scheduled payments on our debt obligations will depend on our future financial performance, which will be affected by a range of economic, 32 Table of Contents competitive and business factors, many of which are outside of our control. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and proceeds from sales of assets in the ordinary course of business to satisfy our debt obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our debt, selling additional assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or seeking to raise additional capital. The terms of our financing agreements contain limitations on our ability to incur additional indebtedness. We cannot assure you that any refinancing would be possible, that any assets could be sold, or, if sold, of the timing of the sales and the amount of proceeds realized from those sales, or that additional financing could be obtained on acceptable terms, if at all, or would be permitted under the terms of our various debt instruments then in effect. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms, would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as on our ability to satisfy our debt obligations. Trends, Risks and Uncertainties Relating to Our Common Stock Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results may cause our stock price to decline. Given the nature of the markets in which we participate, we cannot reliably predict future revenues and profitability, and unexpected changes may cause us to adjust our operations. A large portion of our costs are fixed, due in part to our significant sales, research and development and manufacturing costs. Thus, small declines in revenues could negatively affect our operating results in any given quarter. Factors that could affect our quarterly operating results include: • the timing and size of orders from our customers, including cancellations and reschedulings; • the timing of introduction of new products; • the gain or loss of significant customers, including as a result of industry consolidation; • seasonality in some of our target markets; • changes in the mix of products we sell; • changes in demand by the end-users of our customers’ products; • market acceptance of our current and future products; • variability of our customers’ product life cycles; • changes in manufacturing yields or other factors affecting the cost of goods sold, such as the cost and availability of raw materials and the extent of utilization of manufacturing capacity; • changes in the prices of our products, which can be affected by the level of our customers’ and end-users’ demand, technological change, product obsolescence, competition or other factors; • cancellations, changes or delays of deliveries to us by our third-party manufacturers, including as a result of the availability of manufacturing capacity and the proposed terms of manufacturing arrangements; • our liquidity and access to capital; and • our research and development activities and the funding thereof. Our stock price may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors in our securities. The stock markets in general, and the markets for high technology stocks in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. 33 Table of Contents The market price of the common stock may also fluctuate significantly in response to the following factors, some of which are beyond our control: • variations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, capital commitments, new products or product enhancements; • loss of a major customer or failure to complete significant transactions; and • additions or departures of key personnel. The trading price of our common stock since our initial public offering has had a significant variance and we can not accurately predict every potential risk that may materially and adversely affect our stock price. Provisions in our charter documents may delay or prevent the acquisition of our company, which could decrease the value of our stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it harder for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions: • create a board of directors with staggered terms; • permit only our board of directors or the chairman of our board of directors to call special meetings of stockholders; • establish advance notice requirements for submitting nominations for election to the board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at a meeting; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent; • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock, which is preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede a takeover attempt and that our board of directors can create and issue without prior stockholder approval; and • require the approval by holders of at least 66 2/ 3% of our outstanding common stock to amend any of these provisions in our certificate of incorporation or bylaws. Although we believe these provisions make a higher third-party bid more likely by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, these provisions apply even if an initial offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 