ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business faces significant risks. These risks include those described below and may include additional risks of which we are not currently aware or which we currently do not believe are material. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occurs, they may materially harm our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. As a result, the market price of our common stock could decline. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not yet identified or that we think are immaterial may also materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. The following risks should be read in conjunction with the other information set forth in this report. We have a history of net losses and an accumulated deficit, and we may never generate revenue or achieve or maintain profitability in the future. Since our inception in 1992, we have not generated any revenue from product sales and have experienced significant net losses and negative cash flows from operations. To date, we have financed our operations primarily through the private and public sale of securities. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, we had net losses attributable to common stockholders of $39.4 million, $30.2 million, and $20.8 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2007, we had accumulated a deficit during our development stage of $247.9 million. We have incurred these losses principally from costs incurred in our research and development programs, clinical manufacturing and from our marketing, general and administrative expenses. We expect to continue incurring net losses for the foreseeable future. Our ability to generate revenue and achieve profitability is dependent on our ability, alone or with partners, to successfully complete the development of our product candidates, conduct clinical trials, obtain the necessary regulatory approvals, and manufacture and market our product candidates. We may never generate revenue from product sales or become profitable. We expect to continue to spend substantial amounts on research and development, including amounts spent on conducting clinical trials for our product candidates, and in preparing for the potential commercial launch of our product candidates. We may not be able to continue as a going concern if we are unable to generate meaningful amounts of revenue to support our operations or cannot otherwise raise the necessary funds to support our operations. 17 Our near-term prospects are substantially dependent on PDX, our lead product candidate. If we are unable to successfully develop and obtain regulatory approval for PDX for the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory PTCL, our ability to generate revenue will be significantly delayed. We currently have no products that are approved for commercial sale. Our product candidates are in various stages of development, and significant research and development, financial resources and personnel will be required to develop commercially viable products and obtain regulatory approvals for them. Most of our efforts and expenditures over the next few years will be devoted to PDX. Accordingly, our future prospects are substantially dependent on the successful development, regulatory approval and commercialization of PDX for the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory PTCL. PDX is not expected to be commercially available for this or any other indication until at least 2009. RH1 is in an earlier stage of development relative to PDX, and if both PDX and RH1 are approved for marketing, we expect that RH1 would not be commercially available until after PDX is commercially available. Further, certain of the indications that we are pursuing have relatively low incidence rates, which may make it difficult for us to enroll a sufficient number of patients in our clinical trials on a timely basis, or at all, and may limit the revenue potential of our product candidates. If we are unable to successfully develop, obtain regulatory approval for and commercialize PDX for the treatment of relapsed or refractory PTCL, our ability to generate revenue from product sales will be significantly delayed and our stock price would likely decline. We cannot predict when or if we will obtain regulatory approval to commercialize our product candidates. A pharmaceutical product cannot be marketed in the United States or most other countries until it has completed a rigorous and extensive regulatory approval process. If we fail to obtain regulatory approval to market our product candidates, we will be unable to sell our products and generate revenue, which would jeopardize our ability to continue operating our business. Satisfaction of regulatory requirements typically takes many years, is dependent upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. Of particular significance are the requirements covering research and development, testing, manufacturing, quality control, labeling and promotion of drugs for human use. We may not obtain regulatory approval for any product candidates we develop, including PDX, even though PROPEL may be positive and we have a SPA agreement, or we may not obtain regulatory review of such product candidates in a timely manner. If our product candidates, including PDX, fail to meet safety and efficacy endpoints in clinical trials, they will not receive regulatory approval, and we will be unable to market them. Our product candidates may not prove to be safe and efficacious in clinical trials and may not meet all of the applicable regulatory requirements needed to receive regulatory approval. The clinical development and regulatory approval process is extremely expensive and takes many years. Failure can occur at any stage of development, and the timing of any regulatory approval cannot be accurately predicted. We currently expect to complete patient enrollment in our pivotal Phase 2 PROPEL trial in the second quarter of 2008, although the actual timing of completion of enrollment may vary based on a number of factors, including site initiation and patient enrollment rates. We cannot assure you that the design of, or data collected from, the PROPEL trial will be adequate to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of PDX for the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory PTCL, or otherwise be sufficient to support FDA or any foreign regulatory approval, even though PROPEL may be positive and we have a SPA agreement. If the PROPEL trial fails to achieve its safety and efficacy endpoints, we may be unable to obtain regulatory approval to commercialize PDX, and our business and stock price would be harmed. If we fail to obtain regulatory approval for PDX or any of our other current or 18 future product candidates, we will be unable to market and sell them and therefore may never generate meaningful amounts of revenue or become profitable. As part of the regulatory process, we must conduct clinical trials for each product candidate to demonstrate safety and efficacy to the satisfaction of the FDA and other regulatory authorities abroad. The number and design of clinical trials that will be required varies depending on the product candidate, the condition being evaluated, the trial results and regulations applicable to any particular product candidate. The design of our clinical trials is based on many assumptions about the expected effect of our product candidates, and if those assumptions prove incorrect, the clinical trials may not demonstrate the safety or efficacy of our product candidates. Preliminary results may not be confirmed upon full analysis of the detailed results of a trial, and prior clinical trial program designs and results may not be predictive of future clinical trial designs or results. Product candidates in later stage clinical trials may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy despite having progressed through initial clinical trials with acceptable endpoints. For example, we terminated the development of EFAPROXYN when it failed to demonstrate statistically significant improvement in overall survival in the targeted patients in a Phase 3 clinical trial. If our product candidates fail to show clinically significant benefits, they will not be approved for marketing. We may experience delays in our clinical trials that could adversely affect our financial position and our commercial prospects. We do not know when our current clinical trials, including our PROPEL trial, will be completed, if at all. We also cannot accurately predict when other planned clinical trials will begin or be completed. Many factors affect patient enrollment, including the size of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the trial, competing clinical trials and new drugs approved for the conditions we are investigating. Other companies are conducting clinical trials and have announced plans for future trials that are seeking or likely to seek patients with the same diseases as those we are studying. Competition for patients in some cancer trials is particularly intense because of the limited number of leading specialist physicians and the geographic concentration of major clinical centers. As a result of the numerous factors which can affect the pace of progress of clinical trials, our trials may take longer to enroll patients than we anticipate, if they can be completed at all. Delays in patient enrollment in the trials may increase our costs and slow our product development and approval process. Our product development costs will also increase if we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than planned. If other companies' product candidates show favorable results, we may be required to conduct additional clinical trials to address changes in treatment regimens or for our products to be commercially competitive. Any delays in completing our clinical trials will delay our ability to generate revenue from product sales, and we may have insufficient capital resources to support our operations. Even if we do have sufficient capital resources, our ability to become profitable will be delayed. While we have negotiated a special protocol assessment with the FDA relating to our PROPEL trial, this agreement does not guarantee any particular outcome from regulatory review of the trial or the product, including any regulatory approval. The protocol for the PROPEL trial was reviewed by the FDA under the special protocol assessment, or SPA, process, which allows for FDA evaluation of a clinical trial protocol intended to form the primary basis of an efficacy claim in support of a new drug application, and provides an agreement that the study design, including trial size, clinical endpoints and/or data analyses are acceptable to the FDA. However, even if we believe PROPEL is positive, a SPA agreement is not a guarantee of approval, and we cannot be certain that the design of, or data collected from, the PROPEL trial will be adequate to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of PDX for the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory PTCL, or otherwise be sufficient to support FDA or any foreign 19 regulatory approval. Further, the SPA agreement is not binding on the FDA if public health concerns unrecognized at the time the SPA agreement is entered into become evident, other new scientific concerns regarding product safety or efficacy arise, or if we fail to comply with the agreed upon trial protocols. In addition, the SPA agreement may be changed by us or the FDA on written agreement of both parties, and the FDA retains significant latitude and discretion in interpreting the terms of the SPA agreement and the data and results from the PROPEL trial. As a result, we do not know how the FDA will interpret the parties' respective commitments under the SPA agreement, how it will interpret the data and results from the PROPEL trial, or whether PDX will receive any regulatory approvals as a result of the SPA agreement or the clinical trial. Therefore, despite the potential benefits of the SPA agreement, significant uncertainty remains regarding the clinical development and regulatory approval process for PDX for the treatment of PTCL. We may be required to suspend, repeat or terminate our clinical trials if they are not conducted in accordance with regulatory requirements, the results are negative or inconclusive or the trials are not well designed. Clinical trials must be conducted in accordance with the FDA's Good Clinical Practices and are subject to oversight by the FDA and Institutional Review Boards at the medical institutions where the clinical trials are conducted. In addition, clinical trials must be conducted with product candidates produced under the FDA's Good Manufacturing Practices, and may require large numbers of test subjects. Clinical trials may be suspended by the FDA or us at any time if it is believed that the subjects participating in these trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or if the FDA finds deficiencies in the conduct of these trials. Even if we achieve positive interim results in clinical trials, these results do not necessarily predict final results, and acceptable results in early trials may not be repeated in later trials. Data obtained from preclinical and clinical activities are susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory clearances, and the FDA can request that we conduct additional clinical trials. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier trials. As a result, there can be no assurance that our PROPEL trial will achieve its primary or secondary endpoints. In addition, negative or inconclusive results or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could cause a clinical trial to be repeated or terminated. Also, failure to construct clinical trial protocols to screen patients for risk profile factors relevant to the trial for purposes of segregating patients into the patient populations treated with the drug being tested and the control group could result in either group experiencing a disproportionate number of adverse events and could cause a clinical trial to be repeated or terminated. If we have to conduct additional clinical trials, whether for PDX or any other product candidate, it would significantly increase our expenses and delay potential marketing of our product candidates. Reports of adverse events or safety concerns involving our product candidates or in related technology fields or other companies' clinical trials could delay or prevent us from obtaining regulatory approval or negatively impact public perception of our product candidates. Our product candidates may produce serious adverse events. These adverse events could interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials of our product candidates and could result in the FDA or other regulatory authorities denying approval of our product candidates for any or all targeted indications. An independent data safety monitoring board, the FDA, other regulatory authorities or the Company may suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time. We cannot assure you that any of our product candidates will be safe for human use. At present, there are a number of clinical trials being conducted by other pharmaceutical companies involving small molecule chemotherapeutic agents. If other pharmaceutical companies announce that they observed frequent adverse events or unknown safety issues in their trials involving 20 compounds similar to, or competitive with, our product candidates, we could encounter delays in the timing of our clinical trials or difficulties in obtaining the approval of our product candidates. In addition, the public perception of our product candidates might be adversely affected, which could harm our business and results of operations and cause the market price of our common stock to decline, even if the concern relates to another company's product or product candidate. Due to our reliance on contract research organizations and other third parties to conduct our clinical trials, we are unable to directly control the timing, conduct and expense of our clinical trials. We rely primarily on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, including the PROPEL trial. As a result, we have had and will continue to have less control over the conduct of our clinical trials, the timing and completion of the trials, the required reporting of adverse events and the management of data developed through the trial than would be the case if we were relying entirely upon our own staff. Communicating with outside parties can also be challenging, potentially leading to mistakes as well as difficulties in coordinating activities. Outside parties may have staffing difficulties, may undergo changes in priorities or may become financially distressed, adversely affecting their willingness or ability to conduct our trials. We may experience unexpected cost increases that are beyond our control. Problems with the timeliness or quality of the work of a contract research organization may lead us to seek to terminate the relationship and use an alternative service provider. However, making this change may be costly and may delay our trials, and contractual restrictions may make such a change difficult or impossible. Additionally, it may be impossible to find a replacement organization that can conduct our trials in an acceptable manner and at an acceptable cost. Even if our product candidates meet safety and efficacy endpoints in clinical trials, regulatory authorities may not approve them, or we may face post-approval problems that require withdrawal of our products from the market. We will not be able to commercialize any of our product candidates until we have obtained regulatory approval. We have limited experience in filing and pursuing applications necessary to gain regulatory approvals, which may place us at risk of delays, overspending and human resources inefficiencies. Our product candidates may not be approved even if they achieve their endpoints in clinical trials. Regulatory agencies, including the FDA or their advisors, may disagree with our interpretations of data from preclinical studies and clinical trials. Regulatory agencies also may approve a product candidate for fewer conditions than requested or may grant approval subject to the performance of post-marketing studies for a product candidate. In addition, regulatory agencies may not approve the labeling claims that are necessary or desirable for the successful commercialization of our product candidates. Even if we receive regulatory approvals, our product candidates may later produce adverse events that limit or prevent their widespread use or that force us to withdraw those product candidates from the market. In addition, a marketed product continues to be subject to strict regulation after approval and may be required to undergo post-approval studies. Any unforeseen problems with an approved product or any violation of regulations could result in restrictions on the product, including its withdrawal from the market. Any delay in or failure to receive or maintain regulatory approval for any of our products could harm our business and prevent us from ever generating meaningful revenues or achieving profitability. 21 Even if we receive regulatory approval for our product candidates, we will be subject to ongoing regulatory obligations and review. Following any regulatory approval of our product candidates, we will be subject to continuing regulatory obligations such as safety reporting requirements and additional post-marketing obligations, including regulatory oversight of the promotion and marketing of our products. In addition, we or our third-party manufacturers will be required to adhere to regulations setting forth current Good Manufacturing Practices. These regulations cover all aspects of the manufacturing, storage, testing, quality control and record keeping relating to our product candidates. Furthermore, we or our third-party manufacturers must pass a pre-approval inspection of manufacturing facilities by the FDA and foreign authorities before obtaining marketing approval and will be subject to periodic inspection by these regulatory authorities. Such inspections may result in compliance issues that could prevent or delay marketing approval, or require the expenditure of financial or other resources to address. If we or our third-party manufacturers fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. Budget constraints may force us to delay our efforts to develop certain product candidates in favor of developing others, which may prevent us from commercializing all product candidates as quickly as possible. Because we have limited resources, and because research and development is an expensive process, we must regularly assess the most efficient allocation of our research and development budget. As a result, we may have to prioritize development candidates and may not be able to fully realize the value of some of our product candidates in a timely manner, if at all. If we fail to obtain the capital necessary to fund our operations, we will be unable to successfully develop or commercialize our product candidates. We expect that significant additional capital will be required in the future to continue our research and development efforts and to commercialize our product candidates, if approved for marketing. Our actual capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: •the timing and outcome of our ongoing PROPEL trial; •costs associated with the commercialization of our product candidates, if approved for marketing; •our evaluation of, and decisions with respect to, additional therapeutic indications for which we may develop PDX; •our evaluation of, and decisions with respect to, our strategic alternatives; and •costs associated with securing potential in-license opportunities and additional product candidates and conducting preclinical research and clinical development for our product candidates. We will be required to raise additional capital to support our future operations, including the potential commercialization of PDX in the event the PROPEL trial is positive and we obtain regulatory approval to market PDX. We may seek to obtain this additional capital through arrangements with corporate partners, equity or debt financings, or from other sources. Such arrangements may be dilutive to our existing stockholders. However, there is no assurance that we will be successful in consummating any such arrangements. In addition, in the event that additional funds are obtained through arrangements with collaborative partners or other sources, such arrangements may require us to relinquish rights to some of our technologies, product candidates or products under development that 22 we would otherwise seek to develop or commercialize ourselves. If we are unable to generate meaningful amounts of revenue from future product sales, if any, or cannot otherwise raise sufficient additional funds to support our operations, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our development programs and our business and future prospects for revenue and profitability may be harmed. If we are unable to effectively protect our intellectual property, we will be unable to prevent third parties from using our technology, which would impair our competitiveness and ability to commercialize our product candidates. In addition, enforcing our proprietary rights may be expensive and result in increased losses. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain meaningful patent protection for our products, both in the United States and in other countries. We rely on patents to protect a large part of our intellectual property and our competitive position. Any patents issued to or licensed by us could be challenged, invalidated, infringed, circumvented or held unenforceable. In addition, it is possible that no patents will issue on any of our licensed patent applications. It is possible that the claims in patents that have been issued or licensed to us or that may be issued or licensed to us in the future will not be sufficiently broad to protect our intellectual property or that the patents will not provide protection against competitive products or otherwise be commercially valuable. Failure to obtain and maintain adequate patent protection for our intellectual property would impair our ability to be commercially competitive. Our commercial success will also depend in part on our ability to commercialize our product candidates without infringing patents or other proprietary rights of others or breaching the licenses granted to us. We may not be able to obtain a license to third-party technology that we may require to conduct our business or, if obtainable, we may not be able to license such technology at a reasonable cost. If we fail to obtain a license to any technology that we may require to commercialize our technologies or product candidates, or fail to obtain a license at a reasonable cost, we will be unable to commercialize the affected product or to commercialize it at a price that will allow us to become profitable. In addition to patent protection, we also rely upon trade secrets, proprietary know-how and technological advances which we seek to protect through confidentiality agreements with our collaborators, employees and consultants. Our employees and consultants are required to enter into confidentiality agreements with us. We also enter into non-disclosure agreements with our collaborators and vendors, which are intended to protect our confidential information delivered to third parties for research and other purposes. However, these agreements could be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach, or our trade secrets and proprietary know-how could otherwise become known or be independently discovered by others. Furthermore, as with any pharmaceutical company, our patent and other proprietary rights are subject to uncertainty. Our patent rights related to our product candidates might conflict with current or future patents and other proprietary rights of others. For the same reasons, the products of others could infringe our patents or other proprietary rights. Litigation or patent interference proceedings, either of which could result in substantial costs to us, may be necessary to enforce any of our patents or other proprietary rights, or to determine the scope and validity or enforceability of other parties' proprietary rights. The defense and prosecution of patent and intellectual property infringement claims are both costly and time consuming, even if the outcome is favorable to us. Any adverse outcome could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from third parties, or require us to cease selling our future products. We are not currently a party to any patent or other intellectual property infringement claims. 23 We do not have manufacturing facilities or capabilities and are dependent on third parties to fulfill our manufacturing needs, which could result in the delay of clinical trials, regulatory approvals, product introductions and commercial sales. We are dependent on third parties for the manufacture and storage of our product candidates for clinical trials and, if approved, for commercial sale. If we are unable to contract for a sufficient supply of our product candidates on acceptable terms, or if we encounter delays or difficulties in the manufacturing process or our relationships with our manufacturers, we may not have sufficient product to conduct or complete our clinical trials or support commercial requirements for our product candidates, if approved for marketing. Both PDX and RH1 are cytotoxic which requires manufacturers of these substances to have specialized equipment and safety systems to handle such substances. In addition, the starting materials for PDX require custom preparations, which will require us to manage an additional set of suppliers to obtain the needed supplies of PDX. Given our lack of formal supply agreements and the fact that in many cases our components are supplied by a single source, our third party suppliers may not be able to fulfill our potential commercial needs or meet our deadlines, or the components they supply to us may not meet our specifications and quality policies and procedures. If we need to find an alternative supplier of PDX or other components, we may not be able to contract for those components on acceptable terms, if at all. Any such failure to supply or delay caused by such suppliers would have an adverse affect on our ability to continue clinical development of our product candidates or commercialize any future products. Even if we obtain approval to market our product candidates in one or more indications, our current or future manufacturers may be unable to accurately and reliably manufacture commercial quantities of our product candidates at reasonable costs, on a timely basis and in compliance with the FDA's current Good Manufacturing Practices. If our current or future contract manufacturers fail in any of these respects, our ability to timely complete our clinical trials, obtain required regulatory approvals and successfully commercialize our product candidates will be materially and adversely affected. This risk may be heightened with respect to PDX and RH1 as there are a limited number of fill/finish manufacturers with the ability to handle cytotoxic products such as PDX and RH1. Our reliance on contract manufacturers exposes us to additional risks, including: •delays or failure to manufacture sufficient quantities needed for clinical trials in accordance with our specifications or to deliver such quantities on the dates we require; •our current and future manufacturers are subject to ongoing, periodic, unannounced inspections by the FDA and corresponding state and international regulatory authorities for compliance with strictly enforced current Good Manufacturing Practice regulations and similar state and foreign standards, and we do not have control over our contract manufacturers' compliance with these regulations and standards; •our current and future manufacturers may not be able to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, which would prohibit them from manufacturing products for us; •our manufacturers may have staffing difficulties, may undergo changes in control or may become financially distressed, adversely affecting their willingness or ability to manufacture products for us; •our manufacturers might not be able to fulfill our commercial needs, which would require us to seek new manufacturing arrangements and may result in substantial delays in meeting market; •demands if we need to change to other commercial manufacturing contractors, the FDA and comparable foreign regulators must approve our use of any new manufacturer, which would require additional testing, regulatory filings and compliance inspections, and the new 24 manufacturers would have to be educated in, or themselves develop substantially equivalent processes necessary for, the production of our products; and •we may not have intellectual property rights, or may have to share intellectual property rights, to any improvements in the manufacturing processes or new manufacturing processes for our products. Any of these factors could result in the delay of clinical trials, regulatory submissions, required approvals or commercialization of our product candidates. They could also entail higher costs and result in our being unable to effectively commercialize our product candidates. We may explore strategic partnerships that may never materialize or may fail. We may, in the future, periodically explore a variety of possible strategic partnerships in an effort to gain access to additional complimentary resources. At the current time, we cannot predict what form such a strategic partnership might take. We are likely to face significant competition in seeking appropriate strategic partners, and these strategic partnerships can be complicated and time consuming to negotiate and document. We may not be able to negotiate strategic partnerships on acceptable terms, or at all. We are unable to predict when, if ever, we will enter into any additional strategic partnerships because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with establishing strategic partnerships. If we enter into one or more strategic partnerships, we may be required to relinquish important rights to and control over the development of our product candidates or otherwise be subject to unfavorable terms. Any future strategic partnerships we enter into could subject us to a number of risks, including: •we may be required to undertake expenditure of substantial operational, financial and management resources in integrating new businesses, technologies and products; •we may be required to issue equity securities that would dilute our existing stockholders' percentage ownership; •we may be required to assume substantial actual or contingent liabilities; •we may not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that our strategic partners devote to the development or commercialization of product candidates; •strategic partners may delay clinical trials, provide insufficient funding, terminate a clinical trial or abandon a product candidate, repeat or conduct new clinical trials or require a new version of a product candidate for clinical testing; •strategic partners may not pursue further development and commercialization of products resulting from the strategic partnering arrangement or may elect to discontinue research and development programs; •strategic partners may not commit adequate resources to the marketing and distribution of any future products, limiting our potential revenues from these products; •disputes may arise between us and our strategic partners that result in the delay or termination of the research, development or commercialization of our product candidates or that result in costly litigation or arbitration that diverts management's attention and consumes resources; •strategic partners may experience financial difficulties; 25 •strategic partners may not properly maintain or defend our intellectual property rights or may use our proprietary information in a manner that could jeopardize or invalidate our proprietary information or expose us to potential litigation; •business combinations or significant changes in a strategic partner's business strategy may also adversely affect a strategic partner's willingness or ability to complete its obligations under any arrangement; •strategic partners could independently move forward with a competing product candidate developed either independently or in collaboration with others, including our competitors; and •strategic partners could terminate the arrangement or allow it to expire, which would delay the development and may increase the cost of developing our product candidates. Acceptance of our products in the marketplace is uncertain, and failure to achieve market acceptance will limit our ability to generate revenue and become profitable. Even if approved for marketing, our products may not achieve market acceptance. The degree of market acceptance will depend upon a number of factors, including: •the receipt of timely regulatory approval for the uses that we are studying; •the establishment and demonstration in the medical community of the safety and efficacy of our products and their potential advantages over existing and newly developed therapeutic products; •ease of use of our products; •reimbursement and coverage policies of government and private payors such as Medicare, Medicaid, insurance companies, health maintenance organizations and other plan administrators; and •the scope and effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts. Physicians, patients, payors or the medical community in general may be unwilling to accept, utilize or recommend the use of any of our products. The status of reimbursement from third-party payors for newly approved health care drugs is uncertain and failure to obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement could limit our ability to generate revenue. Our ability to successfully commercialize our products will depend, in part, on the extent to which coverage and reimbursement for the products will be available from government and health administration authorities, private health insurers, managed care programs, and other third-party payors. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products. Third-party payors, including Medicare, are challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Government and other third-party payors increasingly are attempting to contain health care costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new drugs and by refusing, in some cases, to provide coverage for uses of approved products for disease conditions for which the FDA has not granted labeling approval. Third-party insurance coverage may not be available to patients for our products. If government and other third-party payors do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for our product candidates, their market acceptance may be reduced. 26 Health care reform measures could adversely affect our business. The business and financial condition of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are affected by the efforts of governmental and third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care. In the United States and in foreign jurisdictions there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of legislative and regulatory proposals aimed at changing the health care system. For example, in some countries other than the United States, pricing of prescription drugs is subject to government control, and we expect proposals to implement similar controls in the United States to continue. We are unable to predict what additional legislation or regulation, if any, relating to the health care industry or third-party coverage and reimbursement may be enacted in the future or what effect such legislation or regulation would have on our business. The pendency or approval of such proposals or reforms could result in a decrease in our stock price or limit our ability to raise capital or to obtain strategic partnerships or licenses. If we fail to comply with healthcare fraud and abuse laws, we could face substantial penalties and our business, operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. As a biopharmaceutical company, even though we do not and will not control referrals of health care services or bill directly to Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payors, certain federal and state healthcare laws and regulations pertaining to fraud and abuse will be applicable to our business. These laws and regulations, include, among others: •the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, persons from soliciting, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce either the referral of an individual for an item or service or the purchasing or ordering of a good or service, for which payment may be made under federal health care programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; •federal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent; •the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, which prohibits executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters; and •state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers. Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution under the federal Anti-Kickback statute, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration intended to induce prescribing, purchases or recommendations may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. Our practices may not in all cases meet all of the criteria for safe harbor protection from anti-kickback liability. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our operations could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Although compliance programs can mitigate the risk of investigation and prosecution for violations of these laws, the risks cannot be entirely eliminated. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our 27 business. Moreover, achieving and sustaining compliance with all applicable federal and state fraud and abuse laws may prove costly. If we are unable to develop adequate sales, marketing or distribution capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to perform some of these functions, we will not be able to commercialize our products effectively. We have limited experience in sales, marketing and distribution. To directly market and distribute any products, we must build a sales and marketing organization with appropriate technical expertise and distribution capabilities. We may attempt to build such a sales and marketing organization on our own or with the assistance of a contract sales organization. For some market opportunities, we may need to enter into co-promotion or other licensing arrangements with larger pharmaceutical or biotechnology firms in order to increase the likelihood of commercial success for our products. We may not be able to establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities of our own or enter into such arrangements with third parties in a timely manner or on acceptable terms. To the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other licensing arrangements, our product revenues are likely to be lower than if we directly marketed and sold our products, and some or all of the revenues we receive will depend upon the efforts of third parties, and these efforts may not be successful. Additionally, building marketing and distribution capabilities may be more expensive than we anticipate, requiring us to divert capital from other intended purposes or preventing us from building our marketing and distribution capabilities to the desired levels. If our competitors develop and market products that are more effective than ours, our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated. Even if we obtain the necessary regulatory approvals to market PDX or any other product candidate, our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and market products that are more effective, have fewer side effects or are less expensive than our product candidates. Our potential competitors include large fully integrated pharmaceutical companies and more established biotechnology companies, both of which have significant resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, testing, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing. Academic institutions, government agencies, and other public and private research organizations conduct research, seek patent protection and establish collaborative arrangements for research, development, manufacturing and marketing. It is possible that competitors will succeed in developing technologies that are more effective than those being developed by us or that would render our technology obsolete or noncompetitive. If product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our product candidates. The testing and marketing of pharmaceutical products entail an inherent risk of product liability. Product liability claims might be brought against us by consumers, health care providers or by pharmaceutical companies or others selling our future products. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against such claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit the commercialization of our product candidates. We have obtained limited product liability insurance coverage for our human clinical trials. However, product liability insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive, and we may be unable to maintain product liability insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to product liability. A successful product liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to obtain commercially reasonable product liability insurance for any products approved for marketing. 28 We are currently involved in a securities class action litigation, which could harm our business if management attention is diverted or the claims are decided against us. We have been named as a defendant in a purported securities class action lawsuit seeking unspecified damages relating to the issuance of allegedly false and misleading statements regarding EFAPROXYN during the period from May 29, 2003 to April 29, 2004 and subsequent declines in our stock price. In an opinion dated October 20, 2005, the District Court concluded that the plaintiff's complaint failed to meet the legal requirements applicable to its alleged claims and dismissed the lawsuit. On November 20, 2005, the plaintiff appealed the District Court's decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit (the "Court of Appeals"). On February 6, 2008, the parties signed a stipulation of settlement, settling the case for $2,000,000. The defendants do not admit any liability in connection with the settlement. The Court of Appeals has remanded the case to the District Court for consideration of the settlement. The settlement is subject to various conditions, including without limitation approval of the District Court. We expect that the amount of the settlement in excess of our deductible will be covered by our insurance carrier. In the event the settlement does not become final, we intend to vigorously defend against the plaintiff's appeal. If the Court of Appeals then were to reverse the District Court's decision and we were not successful in our defense of such claims, we could be forced to make significant payments to the plaintiffs, and such payments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows to the extent such payments are not covered by our insurance carriers. Even if our defense against such claims were successful, the litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. As of December 31, 2007, we have recorded $2,000,000 in accrued litigation settlement costs, which represents our best estimate of the potential gross amount of the settlement costs to be paid to the plaintiffs, and $1,759,000 in prepaid expenses and other assets, which represents the amount we expect to be reimbursed from our insurance carrier. The net difference of $241,000 between these amounts represents the remaining unpaid deductible under our insurance policy, and this amount was recorded to marketing, general and administrative expenses during the year ended December 31, 2006. Our success depends on retention of our President and Chief Executive Officer, Chief Medical Officer and other key personnel. We are highly dependent on our President and Chief Executive Officer, Paul L. Berns, our Chief Medical Officer, Pablo J. Cagnoni, M.D. and other members of our management team. We are named as the beneficiary on a term life insurance policy covering Mr. Berns in the amount of $10.0 million. We also depend on academic collaborators for each of our research and development programs. The loss of any of our key employees or academic collaborators could delay our discovery research program and the development and commercialization of our product candidates or result in termination of them in their entirety. Mr. Berns and Dr. Cagnoni, as well as others on our executive management team, have severance agreements with us, but the agreements provides for "at-will" employment with no specified term. Our future success also will depend in large part on our continued ability to attract and retain other highly qualified scientific, technical and management personnel, as well as personnel with expertise in clinical testing, governmental regulation and commercialization. We face competition for personnel from other companies, universities, public and private research institutions, government entities and other organizations. If we are unsuccessful in our recruitment and retention efforts, our business will be harmed. We also rely on consultants, collaborators and advisors to assist us in formulating and conducting our research. All of our consultants, collaborators and advisors are employed by other employers or are self-employed and may have commitments to or consulting contracts with other entities that may limit their ability to contribute to our company. 29 We cannot guarantee that we will be in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations. The development, manufacturing, and, if approved, pricing, marketing, sale and reimbursement of our products, together with our general obligations, are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and other authorities within the United States and numerous entities outside of the United States. We also have significantly fewer employees than many other companies that have the same or fewer product candidates in late stage clinical development and we rely heavily on third parties to conduct many important functions. As a publicly-traded company, we are subject to significant regulations, some of which have either only recently been adopted, including the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, or are currently proposals subject to change. We cannot assure that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations. If we fail to comply with the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 or any other regulations we could be subject to a range of consequences, including restrictions on our ability to sell equity or otherwise raise capital funds, the de-listing of our common stock from the Nasdaq Global Market, suspension or termination of our clinical trials, failure to obtain approval to market our product candidates, restrictions on future products or our manufacturing processes, significant fines, or other sanctions or litigation. If our internal controls over financial reporting are not considered effective, our business and stock price could be adversely affected. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year, and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in this annual report on Form 10-K for that fiscal year. Section 404 also requires our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, and report on, management's assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting. Our management, including our chief executive officer and principal financial officer, does not expect that our internal controls over financial reporting will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud involving a company have been, or will be, detected. The design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and we cannot assure you that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, controls may become ineffective because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. We cannot assure you that we or our independent registered public accounting firm will not identify a material weakness in our internal controls in the future. A material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting would require management and our independent registered public accounting firm to consider our internal controls as ineffective. If our internal controls over financial reporting are not considered effective, we may experience a loss of public confidence, which could have an adverse effect on our business and on the market price of our common stock. If we do not progress in our programs as anticipated, our stock price could decrease. For planning purposes, we estimate the timing of a variety of clinical, regulatory and other milestones, such as when a certain product candidate will enter clinical development, when a clinical 30 trial will be initiated or completed, or when an application for regulatory approval will be filed. Some of our estimates are included in this report. Our estimates are based on information available to us as of the date of this report and a variety of assumptions. Many of the underlying assumptions are outside of our control. If milestones are not achieved when we estimated that they would be, investors could be disappointed, and our stock price may decrease. Warburg Pincus Private Equity VIII, L.P. ("Warburg") and Baker Brothers Life Sciences, L.P. ("Baker") each control a substantial percentage of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. On March 2, 2005, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement with Warburg Pincus Private Equity VIII, L.P. ("Warburg") and certain other investors pursuant to which we issued and sold an aggregate of 2,352,443 shares of our Series A Exchangeable Preferred Stock (the "Exchangeable Preferred") at a price per share of $22.10, for aggregate gross proceeds of approximately $52.0 million. On May 18, 2005, at our Annual Meeting of Stockholders, our stockholders voted to approve the issuance of shares of our common stock upon exchange of shares of the Exchangeable Preferred. As a result of such approval, we issued a total of 23,524,430 shares of common stock upon exchange of 2,352,443 shares of Exchangeable Preferred. In connection with its purchase of the Exchangeable Preferred, Warburg entered into a standstill agreement agreeing not to pursue certain activities the purpose or effect of which may be to change or influence the control of the Company. On February 2, 2007, we closed an underwritten offering of 9,000,000 shares of common stock, of which Baker Brothers Life Sciences, L.P. and certain other affiliated funds (collectively "Baker") purchased 3,300,000 shares, at a price per share of $6.00, for aggregate gross proceeds of approximately $54.0 million (the "February 2007 Financing"). In connection with its purchase of shares in the February 2007 Financing, Baker entered into a standstill agreement agreeing not to pursue certain activities the purpose or effect of which might be to change or influence the control of the Company. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately 67.6 million shares of common stock outstanding, of which Warburg owned 22,624,430 shares, or approximately 33% of the voting power of our outstanding common stock, and Baker owned 8,741,480 shares, or approximately 13% of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. Although each of Warburg and Baker have entered into a standstill agreement with us, they are, and will continue to be, able to exercise substantial influence over any actions requiring stockholder approval. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent an acquisition of us, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors. Because our board of directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt by our stockholders to replace current members of our management team. These provisions include: •authorizing the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares or change the balance of voting control and thwart a takeover attempt; •prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow for less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; 31 •prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; •eliminating the ability of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders; and •establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an interested stockholder. This provision could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, whether or not it is desired by or beneficial to our stockholders. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the three year moratorium imposed on business combinations by Section 203 will not apply to either Warburg or Baker because, prior to the dates on which they became interested stockholders, our board of directors approved the transactions which resulted in Warburg and Baker becoming interested stockholders. However, in connection with its purchase of Exchangeable Preferred in March 2005, Warburg entered into a standstill agreement agreeing not to pursue certain activities the purpose or effect of which may be to change or influence the control of the Company. Similarly, in connection with the February 2007 Financing, Baker entered into a standstill agreement agreeing not to pursue certain activities the purpose or effect of which may be to change or influence the control of the Company. We have adopted a stockholder rights plan that may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that is beneficial to our stockholders. In May 2003, our board of directors adopted a stockholder rights plan that may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition of us that is beneficial to our stockholders by diluting the ability of a potential acquirer to acquire us. Pursuant to the terms of our plan, when a person or group, except under certain circumstances, acquires 15% or more of our outstanding common stock or 10 business days after announcement of a tender or exchange offer for 15% or more of our outstanding common stock, the rights (except those rights held by the person or group who has acquired or announced an offer to acquire 15% or more of our outstanding common stock) would generally become exercisable for shares of our common stock at a discount. Because the potential acquirer's rights would not become exercisable for our shares of common stock at a discount, the potential acquirer would suffer substantial dilution and may lose its ability to acquire us. In addition, the existence of the plan itself may deter a potential acquirer from acquiring or making an offer to acquire the Company. As a result, either by operation of the plan or by its potential deterrent effect, mergers and acquisitions of the Company that our stockholders may consider in their best interests may not occur. Because Warburg owns a substantial percentage of our outstanding common stock, we amended the stockholder rights plan in connection with Warburg's purchase of Exchangeable Preferred in March 2005 to provide that Warburg and its affiliates will be exempt from the stockholder rights plan, unless Warburg and its affiliates become, without the prior consent of our board of directors, the beneficial owner of more than 44% of our common stock. Likewise, since Baker owns a substantial percentage of our outstanding common stock, we amended the stockholder rights plan in connection with the February 2007 Financing to provide that Baker and its affiliates will be exempt from the stockholder rights plan, unless Baker becomes, without the prior consent of our board of directors, the beneficial owner of more than 20% of our common stock. Under the stockholder rights plan, our board of directors has express authority to amend the rights plan without stockholder approval. 32 The market price for our common stock has been and may continue to be highly volatile, and an active trading market for our common stock may never exist. We cannot assure you that an active trading market for our common stock will exist at any time. Holders of our common stock may not be able to sell shares quickly or at the market price if trading in our common stock is not active. The trading price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: •actual or anticipated results of our clinical trials, including PROPEL; •actual or anticipated regulatory approvals or non-approvals of our product candidates, including PDX, or of competing product candidates; •changes in laws or regulations applicable to our product candidates; •changes in the expected or actual timing of our development programs; •actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; •announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors; •changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; •conditions or trends in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries; •changes in the market valuations of similar companies; •announcements by us of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; •additions or departures of key personnel; •disputes or other developments relating to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies; •developments concerning any of our research and development, manufacturing and marketing collaborations; •sales of large blocks of our common stock; •sales of our common stock by our executive officers, directors and five percent stockholders; and •economic and other external factors, including disasters or crises. Public companies in general and companies included on the Nasdaq Global Market in particular have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. There has been particular volatility in the market prices of securities of biotechnology and other life sciences companies, and the market prices of these companies have often fluctuated because of problems or successes in a given market segment or because investor interest has shifted to other segments. These broad market and industry factors may cause the market price of our common stock to decline, regardless of our operating performance. We have no control over this volatility and can only focus our efforts on our own operations, and even these may be affected due to the state of the capital markets. In the past, following large price declines in the public market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been initiated against that company, including in 2004 against us. Litigation of this type could result in substantial costs and diversion of management's attention and resources, which would hurt our business. Any adverse determination in litigation could also subject us to significant liabilities. 33 We are required to recognize stock-based compensation expense relating to employee stock options, restricted stock, and stock purchases under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan, and the amount of expense we recognize may not accurately reflect the value of our share-based payment awards. Further, the recognition of stock-based compensation expense will cause our net losses to increase and may cause the trading price of our common stock to fluctuate. On January 1, 2006, we adopted SFAS No. 123 (Revised 2004), Share-Based Payment ("SFAS 123R"), which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all stock-based compensation based on estimated fair values. As a result, our operating results for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 include, and future periods will include, a charge for stock-based compensation related to employee stock options, restricted stock and discounted employee stock purchases. The application of SFAS 123R requires the use of an option-pricing model to determine the fair value of share-based payment awards. This determination of fair value is affected by our stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of highly complex and subjective variables. These variables include, but are not limited to, our expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards, and actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors. Option-pricing models were developed for use in estimating the value of traded options that have no vesting or hedging restrictions and are fully transferable. Because our employee stock options have certain characteristics that are significantly different from traded options, and because changes in the subjective assumptions can materially affect the estimated value, in management's opinion the existing valuation models may not provide an accurate measure of the fair value of our employee stock options. Our adoption of SFAS 123R had a material impact on our financial statements and results of operations. We also expect that SFAS 123R will have a material impact on our future financial statements and results of operations. We cannot predict the effect that our stock-based compensation expense will have on the trading price of our common stock. Substantial sales of shares may impact the market price of our common stock. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock, the market price of our common stock may decline. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we consider appropriate. We are unable to predict the effect that sales may have on the then prevailing market price of our common stock. We have entered into a Registration Rights Agreement with Warburg and the other purchasers of our Exchangeable Preferred pursuant to which such investors are entitled to certain registration rights with respect to the shares of common stock that we issued upon exchange of the Exchangeable Preferred. In addition, we will need to raise substantial additional capital in the future to fund our operations. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, the market price of our common stock may decline and our existing stockholders may experience significant dilution. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 