ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Relating to Arbitron’s Businesses and the Industry in Which Arbitron Operates Arbitron’s business, financial position and operating results are dependent on the performance of its radio audience measurement business. Arbitron’s quantitative radio audience measurement service and related software sales represented approximately 86 percent of Arbitron’s total revenue for 2006. Arbitron expects that sales of its radio audience measurement service and related software will continue to represent a substantial portion of Arbitron’s revenue for the foreseeable future. Any factors adversely affecting the pricing of, demand for, or market acceptance of Arbitron’s radio audience measurement service and related software, such as competition, technological change, or further consolidation in the radio industry, could adversely affect Arbitron’s business, financial position and operating results. Technological change may render Arbitron’s products and services obsolete. If Arbitron is unable to successfully adapt to changing technologies and customer demands, either through the development and marketing of new products and services, or through enhancements to its existing products and services, its business, financial position and results of operations would be adversely affected. Arbitron expects that the market for its products and services will be characterized by changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent new product and service announcements and enhancements and changing customer demands. The introduction of new products and services embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards could render existing products and services obsolete and/or challenge current accepted levels of precision of data measurement. In addition, advertising-supported media may be challenged by new technologies that could have an effect on the advertising industry, Arbitron’s customers and Arbitron’s products and services. Arbitron’s continued success will depend on its ability to adapt to changing technologies and to improve the performance, features, and reliability of its products and services in response to changing customer and industry demands. Arbitron may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful design, development, testing, introduction, or marketing of its products and services. Arbitron’s new products and services, such as its PPM service, or enhancements to its existing products and services, may not adequately meet the requirements of its current and prospective customers or achieve any degree of significant market acceptance. Arbitron’s inability to successfully adapt to changing technologies and customer demands, either through the development and marketing of new products and services, or through enhancements to its existing products and services, would adversely affect its business, financial position and results of operations. Consolidation in the radio broadcasting industry has led to Arbitron’s increasing dependence on key customers. The loss of a key customer would significantly reduce Arbitron’s revenue and operating results. The consolidation in the radio broadcasting industry has led to Arbitron’s increasing dependence on a limited number of key customers. The loss of a key customer would significantly reduce Arbitron’s revenue and operating 22 Table of Contents results. In 2006, Clear Channel and CBS Radio represented approximately 19 percent and nine percent, respectively, of Arbitron’s revenue. Arbitron cannot give any assurances that it could replace the revenue that would be lost if a key customer failed to renew all or part of its agreements with Arbitron. The loss of a key customer would materially impact Arbitron’s business, financial position and operating results. Consolidation in the radio broadcasting industry may put pressure on the pricing of Arbitron’s radio audience measurement service and related software sales, thereby leading to decreased earnings growth. Consolidation in the radio broadcasting industry could put pressure on the pricing of Arbitron’s radio audience measurement service and related software sales, from which Arbitron derives a substantial portion of its total revenue. Arbitron prices its radio audience measurement service and related software applications on a per radio station, per service or per product basis, negotiating licenses and pricing with the owner of each radio station or group of radio stations. Consolidation in the radio broadcasting industry could have the effect that the greater the number of radio stations owned and the greater the number of services and applications purchased by a radio station owner, the more likely the owner is to seek price concessions from Arbitron. If Arbitron makes price concessions, it could adversely affect its business, financial position and operating results. Arbitron’s agreements with its customers are not exclusive and contain no renewal obligations. The failure of Arbitron’s customers to renew all or part of their contracts could have an adverse effect on Arbitron’s business, financial position and operating results. Arbitron’s customers are not prohibited from entering into agreements with any other competing service provider, and once the term of the agreement (usually one to seven years) expires, there is no automatic renewal feature in the contract. Because the Arbitron Radio Market Report is delivered on a quarterly or semiannual basis, it is common for Arbitron’s customer contracts to expire before renewal negotiations are concluded. Therefore, there may be significant uncertainty as to whether a particular customer will renew all or part of its contract and, if so, the particular terms of such renewal. If a customer owning stations in a significant number of markets does not renew its contracts, this would have an adverse effect on Arbitron’s business, financial position and operating results. Long-term agreements with Arbitron’s customers limit its ability to increase the prices Arbitron charges for its services if Arbitron’s costs increase. Arbitron generally enters into long-term contracts with its customers, including contracts for delivery of its radio audience measurement services. The terms of these customer agreements usually range from one to seven years. Over the term of these agreements the costs of providing services may increase (or increase at faster rates than its historical experience) for reasons outside of Arbitron’s control. Although Arbitron’s customer contracts generally provide for annual price increases, there can be no assurance that these revenue increases will exceed the increased cost of providing the services. If Arbitron’s PPM ratings service does not generate the revenues that it anticipates, or if Arbitron’s ability to earn such revenues is delayed, its financial results will suffer. Arbitron believes that the PPM ratings service represents a viable replacement for its diary-based ratings service in larger markets, offering customers considerable incremental value, and, therefore, its commercialization is an essential component of Arbitron’s future growth, which Arbitron expects will result in increased revenues in the coming years. In November 2006, Arbitron updated its previously announced plan to progressively roll out the PPM ratings service to the top 50 radio markets by 2010. Arbitron’s financial results during 2007 and beyond will depend in part on its success in commercializing its PPM ratings service, and other new initiatives and its ability to generate meaningful revenues from them. If Arbitron is significantly delayed in commercializing these services, expected revenue increases related to the PPM ratings service will be delayed and its financial results will be negatively affected. Factors that may effect the pace of the commercialization of Arbitron’s PPM ratings service, and as a result, its revenues or operating results include the following, some of which are beyond its control: • technical difficulties or service interruptions that significantly harm its ability to deliver the PPM ratings service on schedule; 23 Table of Contents • the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures related to the commercialization of its PPM ratings service; • the amount and timing of costs related to changes in the size and/or composition of its panels, particularly as a result of turnover among panel members; • its ability to complete the MRC audit process and accreditation of the PPM methodology in a timely manner; • its ability to obtain, in a timely manner, sufficient quantities of quality equipment and software products from third-party suppliers necessary to outfit its panelists; and • the acceptance of its PPM ratings service by advertisers and radio broadcasters. Arbitron expects to invest in the continued development and commercialization of its PPM ratings service and the National Marketing Panel Service, which may not be successfully developed or commercialized. The costs associated with commercialization of these services will adversely affect Arbitron’s operating results, over the commercialization period. Arbitron expects to continue to invest in the development and commercial deployment of its PPM ratings service and National Marketing Panel Service. The continuing anticipated commercialization of the PPM ratings service will require significant capital resources and a substantial financial investment over the next several years. Arbitron currently believes that the aggregate capital investment associated with PPM commercialization for audience ratings measurement could be approximately $25.0 million over the first two to three years of commercialization. Arbitron also anticipates that, over the same period, its results of operations will be materially negatively impacted as a result of the rollout of this PPM ratings service. The amount of capital required for deployment of the PPM ratings service and the impact of the rollout on the Company’s results of operations will be greatly affected by the speed with which the radio industry requests PPM technology and the timing of the rollout. If the radio industry is slow to accept the PPM ratings service, as opposed to the use of diaries or some other competing alternative, then it will take longer to roll out the commercialization of the PPM ratings service, and the negative impact associated with the costs of deployment will be prolonged. On the other hand, if the radio industry asks for electronic measurement sooner rather than later, Arbitron’s capital needs will intensify, and the near term negative impact on the Company’s results of operations will be more significant. Since the pilot program for the national marketing panel service is in progress and customer response is preliminary, it is not yet possible to provide a meaningful assessment of future costs associated with a potential commercialization of this service. However, the same general cost pattern would apply as with the PPM ratings service, which is that substantial costs would have to be incurred in advance of revenues. Arbitron believes this will result in a materially negative impact on results of operations in the first three to four years of commercialization. The success of commercialization of the PPM ratings service and the National Marketing Panel Service is dependent on contract manufacturers who produce the PPM equipment according to Arbitron’s proprietary design as well as those who manufacture parts and develop certain software applications. The failure of Arbitron to obtain, in a timely manner, sufficient quantities of quality equipment and the necessary software applications to meet Arbitron’s needs could adversely affect the commercial deployment of the PPM ratings service and the National Marketing Panel Service and, therefore, could adversely affect Arbitron’s operating results. Arbitron will need to purchase equipment used in the PPM ratings service and the National Marketing Panel Service and to obtain certain software reporting applications to use with the PPM service data. The software applications will need to be developed in a timely manner. The equipment must be produced by the manufacturer in a timely manner, in the quantities needed and with the quality necessary to function appropriately in the market. Certain specialized parts used in the PPM equipment may impact the manufacturing and the timing of the delivery of the equipment to Arbitron. In addition, if countries and states enact regulation limiting hazardous materials, Arbitron may be required to redesign some of its PPM components to meet these regulations. A redesign process may impact the manufacturing and timing of the delivery of the equipment to Arbitron. The failure of Arbitron to obtain, in a timely manner, sufficient quantities of quality equipment and the necessary software applications to 24 Table of Contents meet Arbitron’s needs could adversely affect the commercial deployment of the PPM ratings service or the National Marketing Panel Service and therefore could adversely affect Arbitron’s operating results. Arbitron’s inability to complete the process of the Media Rating Council (“MRC”) audit of the PPM methodology, in a timely manner, could delay the commercialization of the PPM service, which could adversely affect Arbitron’s business. Arbitron has committed to completing the MRC audit process and to the MRC sharing its audit findings with its PPM audit committee prior to commercializing its PPM service. If the process of the MRC audit of the PPM methodology is not completed in a timely manner, commercialization of the PPM service would be delayed. Such a delay could adversely affect Arbitron’s business, financial position and operating results. The success of Arbitron’s radio audience measurement business depends on diarykeepers who record their listening habits in diaries and return these diaries to Arbitron. The failure of Arbitron to recruit participants and to collect these diaries could adversely affect Arbitron’s business. Arbitron uses listener diaries to gather radio listening data from sample households in the United States local markets for which it currently provides radio ratings. A representative sample of the population in each local market is randomly selected for each survey. This sample is recruited by telephone to keep a diary of their radio listening for one week. Participants are asked to designate in their diary the station(s) to which they are listening, when they are listening and where they are listening, such as home, car, work or other place. To encourage their participation in the survey, Arbitron gives diarykeepers a modest cash incentive. Arbitron receives and processes more than 1.5 million diaries every year to produce its audience listening estimates. It is increasingly difficult and more costly to obtain consent from the phone sample to participate in the surveys, especially among younger demographic groups. Arbitron must achieve response rates sufficient to maintain confidence in its ratings, the support of the industry and accreditation by the MRC. The failure of Arbitron to successfully recruit participants and to convince diarykeepers to record their listening habits and mail in their diaries could adversely impact Arbitron’s business, financial position and operating results. It may become more difficult and more expensive for Arbitron to reach and recruit participants for its audience measurement services, which could adversely affect its business, financial position and operating results. Arbitron’s participants participate in its surveys on a voluntary basis only, and there can be no assurance that they will continue to do so. Arbitron’s success will depend on its ability to reach and recruit participants and to achieve response rates sufficient to maintain its radio audience measurement services. As consumers adopt modes of telecommunication other than telephone landlines, such as mobile phones and cable or Internet calling, it is becoming increasingly more difficult for Arbitron to reach and recruit participants. Recruiting mobile phone-only households will lead to increased costs, which could adversely affect Arbitron’s business, financial position and operating results. Arbitron’s ability to recruit participants for its surveys could be adversely affected by governmental regulations. There is an increasing concern among the American public regarding privacy issues. Federal and state governmental regulations restrict telemarketing to individuals who request to be included on a do-not-call list. Currently, these regulations do not apply to survey research. If the laws are extended to include survey research, Arbitron’s ability to recruit participants for its surveys could be adversely affected. Arbitron is evaluating alternatives to its current methodology, including using panels for its surveys and recontacting previous consenters. In addition, federal regulations prohibit calls made by autodialers to wireless lines without consent from the party. Because consumers are able to transfer a wireless number to a landline carrier or a landline number to a wireless carrier, it can be difficult for Arbitron to identify wireless numbers in advance of placing an autodialed call. Arbitron is using the services of a third-party supplier that tracks wireless numbers to help identify wireless numbers in its telephone sample. Arbitron has limited experience designing, recruiting and maintaining PPM panels. 25 Table of Contents The commercial viability of many of its new business initiatives is dependent on its ability to recruit and maintain compliant PPM panelists and ensure optimal panel composition to accommodate a broad variety of media research services. Arbitron has limited experience in operating such PPM panels and it may encounter unanticipated difficulties as it attempts to do so. Without historical benchmarks on key sample performance metrics, it will be challenging to maintain the appropriate balance of research quality, panel size and operation costs. The license of proprietary software that will enable enhanced access to respondent-level data to third-party software providers and customers could adversely affect the market for some of Arbitron’s existing software products. Arbitron is offering third-party software providers and customers a license to use proprietary software that will enable enhanced access to Arbitron’s respondent-level data. Previously, limited access to respondent level data was only available to customers who licensed certain software services from Arbitron. Once Arbitron begins licensing the software that will provide enhanced access, which Arbitron anticipates will commence in 2008, the sales of Arbitron’s existing software services may be adversely affected. Arbitron’s success will depend on its ability to protect its intellectual property rights. Arbitron believes that the success of its business will depend, in part, on: • obtaining patent protection for its technology, products and services, in particular its PPM system; • defending its patents once obtained; • preserving its trade secrets; • defending its copyrights for its data services and audience estimates; and • operating without infringing upon patents and proprietary rights held by third parties. Arbitron relies on a combination of contractual provisions, confidentiality procedures and patent, copyright, trademark, service mark and trade secret laws to protect the proprietary aspects of its technology, data and estimates. Several patents related to the PPM service, which expire at various times beginning in 2012, when viewed together, are of material importance to the Company. These legal measures afford only limited protection, and competitors may gain access to Arbitron’s intellectual property and proprietary information. Litigation may be necessary to enforce Arbitron’s intellectual property rights, to protect its trade secrets and to determine the validity and scope of Arbitron’s proprietary rights. Arbitron has been involved in litigation relating to the enforcement of its copyrights covering its radio listening estimates. Although Arbitron has generally been successful in these cases, there can be no assurance that the copyright laws and other statutory and contractual arrangements Arbitron currently depends upon will provide it sufficient protection to prevent the use or misappropriation of its audience estimates, databases and technology in the future. Litigation, regardless of outcome, could result in substantial expense and diversion of resources with no assurance of success and could adversely impact Arbitron’s business, financial position and operating results. One of Arbitron’s strategies is to expand its international business, which involves unique risks and, if unsuccessful, could impede the growth of Arbitron’s business. Arbitron continues to explore opportunities that would facilitate licensing its PPM technology into selected international markets in Europe and the Asia/Pacific regions. We have limited experience in international operations, and may not be able to compete effectively in international markets or effectively manage our operations in various countries. If we do not generate enough revenue from international operations to offset the expense of these operations, our business could suffer. In addition, these operations have specific inherent risks, including, without limitation, the following: • costs of customizing services for foreign customers; • difficulties in managing international operations; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; 26 Table of Contents • longer sales and payment cycles; • the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws; • exposure to local economic conditions; • exposure to local political conditions, including the risks of an outbreak of war, the escalation of hostilities, acts of terrorism and seizure of assets by a foreign government; and • exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation. Audience estimates are used as the basis for advertising transactions when they achieve credibility and trust in the eyes of the media marketplace. In some countries, there is little confidence in the historical measurement services due to the perception of tampering and fraud. In expanding its international scope, Arbitron could be at risk of potential tampering and fraud, or the perception thereof, by broadcasters or other third parties with Arbitron’s methodology. In countries where there has not been a historical practice of using audience measurement information in the buying and selling of advertising time, it may be difficult for Arbitron to maintain subscribers as the market transitions to using Arbitron’s audience measurement service as the basis for conducting advertising transactions. Arbitron is dependent on its proprietary software systems for current and future business requirements. Significant delays in the completion of these systems, cost overages and/or inadequate performance of the systems once completed could adversely affect Arbitron’s business, financial position and operating results. Arbitron’s current systems do not have the capability to accommodate all additional product enhancements requested by Arbitron clients. Arbitron is engaged in a major effort to replace its internal processing software and its client software. Significant delays in the completion of these systems, cost overages and/or inadequate performance of the systems once completed could adversely affect Arbitron’s business, financial position and operating results. Criticism of the Arbitron audience measurement service by various industry groups and market segments could adversely affect Arbitron’s business. Due to the high-profile nature of Arbitron’s services in the media and marketing information service industry, Arbitron could become the target of criticism by various industry groups and market segments. Arbitron believes that criticism of its methodology or negative perception of the quality of its research could adversely affect its business. Arbitron’s future growth and success will depend on its ability to successfully compete with companies that may have financial, marketing, distribution, technical and other advantages over Arbitron. Arbitron competes with many companies, some of which are larger and have access to greater capital resources. Arbitron believes that its future growth and success will depend on its ability to successfully compete with other companies that provide similar services in the same markets, some of which may have marketing, technical and other advantages, and its ability to design, develop and commercialize new products and services that address the industry needs for more efficient methods of data collection and processing and broader media measurement techniques. In June 2005, Clear Channel announced that is was issuing a Request for Proposals to create a state-of-the-art radio ratings system to replace the current diary measurement system to which it subscribes. This process is ongoing. Clear Channel has organized a cross-industry evaluation committee to review the proposals, and this committee is expected to report on its findings in early 2007. On February 9, 2007, The Media Audit/Ipsos announced that they will receive funding from a number of broadcasters to test their competing electronic ratings system in the Houston market. See “Legal Proceedings” in Item 3 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006 for a description of Arbitron’s patent infringement lawsuit against The Media Audit/Ipsos. Arbitron cannot provide any assurance that it will be able to compete successfully, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on Arbitron’s business, financial position and operating results. 27 Table of Contents The media research industry is exploring options to achieve greater influence over the providers of audience measurement. The media research industry is exploring options to achieve greater influence over and accountability from the providers of audience measurement. Two of the options could include forming an industry research consortium or a joint industry committee. A research consortium could potentially conduct independent research and development on ratings and audience measurement systems and make recommendations to the provider of audience measurement research. A joint industry committee could potentially result in the establishment of a cooperative media ratings service or an industry committee that would award contracts for media research. If these efforts to establish a research consortium or a joint industry committee are directed at radio, Arbitron’s business, financial position and operating results could be adversely affected. An economic downturn generally, and in the advertising and radio industries in particular, could adversely impact Arbitron’s revenue. Arbitron’s clients derive most of their revenue from transactions involving the sale or purchase of advertising. During challenging economic times, advertisers may reduce advertising expenditures, impacting advertising agencies and media. A shift of advertising dollars from traditional media, such as radio, to nontraditional media, such as the Internet, could adversely impact the radio industry. As a result, advertising agencies and media may be less likely to purchase Arbitron’s media information services, which could adversely affect Arbitron’s business, financial position and operating results. Advertisers are pursuing increased accountability from the media industry for their return on investments made in media. As a result, advertisers may shift advertising expenditures away from less accountable forms of media, such as radio, which could have an adverse effect on Arbitron’s business, financial position and operating results. Advertisers are pursuing increased accountability from the media industry for their return on investments made in media. Advertisers may shift advertising expenditures away from less accountable forms of media, such as radio, to more accountable forms of media, such as the Internet. As a result, advertising agencies and radio stations may be less likely to purchase Arbitron’s media information services, which could have an adverse effect on Arbitron’s business, financial position and operating results. Arbitron enters into agreements with third parties to use certain data and services in connection with the provision of its current services. In addition, Arbitron may need to enter into agreements with third parties to assist with the marketing, technical, and financial aspects of expanding its services for other types of media. In the event Arbitron is unable to use such third-party data and services or if Arbitron is unable to enter into agreements with third parties, when necessary, Arbitron’s business and/or its potential growth could be adversely affected. Arbitron relies on third parties to provide certain data and services for use in connection with the provision of its current services. In the event that such data and services are unavailable for Arbitron’s use or are not available on favorable terms, its business could be adversely affected. Further, in order for Arbitron to build on its experience in the radio audience measurement industry and expand into measurement for other types of media, Arbitron may need to enter into agreements with third parties. These third parties could provide the marketing, technical, and financial aspects that Arbitron requires in order to be able to expand into other types of media. Arbitron’s inability to enter into these agreements with third parties at all or upon favorable terms, when necessary, could adversely affect Arbitron’s growth and business. Long-term disruptions in the mail, telecommunication infrastructure and/or air service could adversely affect Arbitron’s business. Arbitron’s business is dependent on the use of the mail, telecommunication infrastructure and air service. Long-term disruptions in one or more of these services, which could be caused by events such as natural disasters, the outbreak of war, the escalation of hostilities, and/or acts of terrorism (particularly involving cities in which Arbitron has offices, including Columbia, Maryland, which is in close proximity to Washington, DC, and government agencies) could adversely affect Arbitron’s business, financial position and operating results. 28 Table of Contents Risk Factors Relating to Arbitron’s Indebtedness On December 20, 2006, Arbitron entered into a five-year, $150.0 million revolving credit facility that contains financial terms, covenants and operating restrictions that could restrict its financial flexibility and adversely impact its ability to conduct its business. These include: • the requirement that Arbitron maintain certain leverage and coverage ratios; and • restrictions on its ability to sell assets, incur additional indebtedness and grant or incur liens on its assets. These restrictions may restrict or prohibit its ability to raise additional debt capital when needed or could prevent Arbitron from investing in other growth initiatives. Arbitron’s ability to comply with these financial requirements and other restrictions may be affected by events beyond its control, and its inability to comply with them could result in a default under the terms of the agreement. Although Arbitron currently has no borrowings under this credit facility, if a default occurs on future borrowings, either because Arbitron is unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service the debt or because Arbitron fails to comply with one or more of the restrictive covenants, the lenders could elect to declare all of the then outstanding borrowings, as well as accrued interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable. In addition, a default may result in the application of higher rates of interest on the amounts due, resulting in higher interest expense being incurred by Arbitron. Risk Factors Relating to Owning Arbitron’s Common Stock Changes in market conditions, or sales of Arbitron common stock, could adversely affect the market price of Arbitron’s common stock. The market price of Arbitron’s common stock depends on various financial and market conditions, which may change from time to time and which are outside of its control. Sales of a substantial number of shares of Arbitron’s common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, also could adversely affect prevailing market prices for Arbitron’s common stock. In addition to the possibility that Arbitron may sell shares of its common stock in a public offering at any time, Arbitron also may issue shares of common stock in connection with grants of restricted stock or upon exercise of stock options that Arbitron grants to its directors, officers and employees. All of these shares will be available for sale in the public markets from time to time. It may be difficult for a third party to acquire Arbitron, which could depress the stock price of Arbitron’s common stock. Delaware corporate law and Arbitron’s Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws contain provisions that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of Arbitron or the removal of existing management or directors and, as a result, could prevent our stockholders from being paid a premium for their common stock over the then-prevailing market price. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of Arbitron’s common stock. These include: • a stockholders’ rights plan, which likely will limit, through November 21, 2012, the ability of a third party to acquire a substantial amount of Arbitron’s common stock without prior approval by the Board of Directors; • restriction from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder under Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law; • authorization to issue one or more classes of preferred stock, which can be created and issued by the Board of Directors without prior stockholder approval, with rights senior to common stockholders; • advance notice requirements for the submission by stockholders of nominations for election to the Board of Directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at a meeting; and 29 Table of Contents • requiring a supermajority vote of 80 percent of the stockholders to exercise the stockholders’ right to amend the Bylaws. Arbitron’s Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation also contains the following provisions, which provisions could prevent transactions that are in the best interest of stockholders: • requiring a supermajority vote of two-thirds of the stockholders to approve some mergers and other business combinations; and • restriction from engaging in a “business combination” with a “controlling person” unless either a modified supermajority vote is received or the business combination will result in the termination of ownership of all shares of Arbitron’s common stock and the receipt of consideration equal to at least “fair market value.” ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 