ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISK FACTORS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS WE HAVE A HISTORY OF LOSSES AND WE EXPECT LOSSES IN THE FUTURE. We have not been profitable since our inception. Any shortfall in our revenues relative to our expectations could cause a significant increase to our net losses. We cannot predict if we will ever achieve profitability and, if we do, we may not be able to sustain or increase our profitability. WE MAY EXPERIENCE AN INCREASE IN PRICE PRESSURE IN THE FUTURE; AND IF WE ARE NOT SUCCESSFUL IN REDUCING OUR COSTS, WE MAY EXPERIENCE A DECREASE IN GROSS MARGINS. We believe that a variety of factors in the current market contribute to the risk that prices and therefore our gross margins will decrease in future fiscal quarters. For example, as our customers continue to assess their business strategies and their budgets for wireless spending, we may feel additional pressure to lower our prices. In addition, consolidation among mobile network operators, as well as heightened competition, could create increased pricing pressure in the marketplace. BECAUSE WE HAVE A LIMITED OPERATING HISTORY, IT MAY BE DIFFICULT FOR YOU TO EVALUATE OUR BUSINESS AND ITS FUTURE PROSPECTS. Because we are in an early stage of development, our prospects are difficult to predict and may change rapidly. We may encounter difficulties as a young company in a new and rapidly evolving market, including as a result of our dependence on a small number of products with only limited market acceptance. Our business strategy may not be successful, and we may not successfully address these risks. WE HAVE A LENGTHY AND COMPLEX SALES CYCLE FOR SEVERAL OF OUR PRODUCTS, WHICH COULD CAUSE THE DELAY OR LOSS OF REVENUE AND INCREASE OUR EXPENSES. Our sales efforts target mobile network operators worldwide, which require us to expend significant resources educating prospective customers and partners about the uses and benefits of our products. Because the purchase of our products is a significant decision for these prospective customers, they may take a long time to evaluate them. Our sales cycle has typically ranged from four to six months, but can be longer due to significant delays over which we have little or no control. As a result of the long sales cycle, it may take us a substantial amount of time to generate revenue from our sales efforts. 17 WE ARE DEPENDENT UPON THE GROWTH OF PENETRATION OF OUR PRODUCTS IN THE MOBILE NETWORK OPERATOR MARKETPLACE. We have made mobile network operators the main focus of our activities. Our future success depends on our ability to increase revenues from sales of our software and services directly and indirectly to mobile network operators. We may not be able to attract a large number of these customers. Currently, only a limited number of mobile network operators and other customers have implemented and deployed services based on our products. Mobile network operators may not widely deploy or successfully sell services based on our software and services, and subscribers to these services may not seek to use them. Any developments of this kind could limit our ability to sell our solutions to companies in this industry. In addition, our success is dependent upon increased adoption by end users of the services that are based on our software and services. Mobile network operators and their competitors (for example, other communications providers) may successfully deploy and market services that compete with the services that are based on our technology. If subscribers of our mobile network operator customers do not increase their use of services that are based on our software and services, our operating results will be harmed. WE FACE RISKS AS A RESULT OF OUR OPERATIONS IN INTERNATIONAL MARKETS. We expect that sales in international markets will be a major factor in our growth, particularly since the use of wireless networks and wireless devices have generally proceeded more rapidly outside North America. Risks inherent in conducting business internationally include: • reliance on local distribution partners; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements applicable to our business; • customer concentration; • the pace of adoption of our technology; • export restrictions on encryption and other technologies; • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable resulting in longer collection periods; • lower pricing of license and professional service fees; and • differences in foreign laws and regulations, including foreign tax, intellectual property, labor and contract law. Any of these factors could harm our international operations and, consequently, our operating results and growth. 18 OUR PRODUCTS HAVE ACHIEVED LIMITED MARKET ACCEPTANCE TO DATE, AND IF THEY FAIL TO ACHIEVE BROADER MARKET ACCEPTANCE, OUR BUSINESS WILL NOT GROW. Our products are among a number of competing products that are currently available in a new and rapidly evolving market. Other companies may introduce other software products that will compete with ours. Customers may not prefer our products to competing technologies. Some potential customers may be reluctant to work with us due to our fluctuating stock price, or due to our financial condition. If customers do not accept our products as the preferred solution, we may not attract new customers, and our business will not grow. WE NEED TO RETAIN OUR CUSTOMERS AND ADD NEW CUSTOMERS OR OUR REVENUE MAY BE SUBSTANTIALLY REDUCED AND OUR PRODUCTS MAY NOT ACHIEVE MARKET ACCEPTANCE. We have agreements with existing customers in which they either pay us based on the usage of the services that are based on our products or have an option to purchase additional software licenses and/or renew their current relationship with us. If any of our customers discontinue their use of our software in connection with the services that they offer or discontinue their relationship with us for any reason, do not renew their agreements or seek to reduce or renegotiate their purchase and payment obligations, our revenue may be substantially reduced. Consolidation of companies in the telecommunications industry may reduce the number of potential new customers that would be available to us. If our sales efforts to these potential customers are not successful, our products may not achieve market acceptance and our revenue will not grow. Further decreases in adoption will have a material impact on our revenues. WE HAVE RELIED ON SALES TO A LIMITED NUMBER OF CUSTOMERS, AND IF WE FAIL TO RETAIN THESE CUSTOMERS OR TO ADD NEW CUSTOMERS, OUR REVENUE MAY BE SUBSTANTIALLY REDUCED AND OUR PRODUCTS MAY NOT ACHIEVE MARKET ACCEPTANCE. To date, a significant portion of our revenues in any particular period has been attributable to a limited number of customers. In 2005, 32% of our revenue was derived from Hewlett-Packard (as reseller to Sprint Nextel), 19% was derived from Vodafone and 18% was derived from Nokia. Most of our revenue from these customers and our other customers depends on their or their customers’ continued use of our products. If our customers or their customers discontinue or materially reduce their use of our products, or obtain one or more additional suppliers of competing software and services, our revenues may decline. As discussed above, on October 31, 2005, our subcontract agreement with Hewlett-Packard with respect to the deployment of our access gateway solution at Sprint Nextel terminated. We recognized $5.9 million in revenue in the twelve months ended December 31, 2005 related to this subcontract. This represents 32% of our total revenue of $18.3 million. 19 We believe that we may continue to rely upon a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our revenues in the foreseeable future, and any failure by us to capture or retain a significant share of these customers could materially harm our business. Also, if our customer base consolidates, we will have increased dependence on a few customers who may be able to exert increased pressure on our prices and contractual terms in general. See Part I, Item 1, “Business -Customers” and Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources.” IF WE DO NOT RESPOND ADEQUATELY TO EVOLVING TECHNOLOGY STANDARDS, SALES OF OUR PRODUCTS MAY DECLINE. Our future success will depend on our ability to address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers by supporting existing and emerging technologies, including technologies related to communications and the Internet generally. The wireless data market is a rapidly evolving market and is characterized by an increasing number of market entrants that have introduced or developed, or are in the process of introducing or developing, products that facilitate the delivery of data services through wireless devices. In addition, our competitors may develop alternative products that gain broader market acceptance than ours. As a result, the life cycle of our products is difficult to estimate. We need to develop and introduce new products and enhancements to our existing products on a timely basis to keep pace with technological developments, evolving industry standards, changing customer requirements and competitive technologies that may render our products obsolete. These research and development efforts may require us to expend significant capital and other resources. In addition, as a result of the complexities inherent in our products, major enhancements or improvements will require long development and testing periods. If we fail to develop products and services in a timely fashion, or if we do not enhance our products to meet evolving customer needs and industry standards, including security technology, we may not remain competitive. 20 ANY DISRUPTION OF THE SERVICES SUPPORTED BY OUR PRODUCTS DUE TO ACCIDENTAL OR INTENTIONAL SECURITY BREACHES MAY DAMAGE OUR REPUTATION, REDUCE OUR REVENUE, EXPOSE US TO COSTLY LITIGATION OR REQUIRE CAPITAL INVESTMENTS IN ALTERNATIVE SECURITY TECHNOLOGY. Despite our efforts to maximize the security of our platform, we may not be able to stop unauthorized attempts to gain access to or disrupt transactions between our customers and the consumers of their services. Specifically, computer viruses, break-ins and other disruptions could lead to interruptions, delays, loss of data or the inability to accept and confirm the receipt of information or instructions regarding transactions. Any of these events could substantially damage our reputation. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide key components of the security and authentication necessary to achieve secure transmission of confidential information. We cannot necessarily ensure that this technology, future advances in this technology or other developments will be able to prevent security breaches. As a result, we may need to develop or license other technology in the future, to the extent available, to address these security concerns. If a third-party were able to steal a user’s proprietary information, we could be subject to claims, litigation or other potential liabilities that could cause our expenses to increase substantially. In addition to purposeful security breaches, the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could expose us to costly litigation or a significant loss of revenue. Although our customer agreements contain provisions which limit our liability relating to security to some extent, our customers or their consumers may seek to hold us liable for any losses suffered as a result of unauthorized access to their communications. Any litigation of this kind, regardless of its outcome, could be extremely costly and could significantly divert the attention of our management. We may not have adequate insurance or resources to cover these losses. FLUCTUATIONS IN THE VALUE OF FOREIGN CURRENCIES COULD RESULT IN CURRENCY EXCHANGE LOSSES. Our functional currency is the U.S. dollar, as we recognize the majority of our revenues in dollars. In the foreseeable future, the majority of our non-US dollar denominated expenses will be incurred in Canadian dollars, Euros, Swiss francs and United Kingdom pounds sterling. Changes in the value of these currencies relative to the U.S. dollar may result in currency gains and losses, which could affect our operating results. We do not currently hedge against these currency fluctuations. In the year ended December 31, 2005, we incurred realized and unrealized foreign currency losses relating to the translation of our non-U.S. dollar denominated monetary assets and liabilities of approximately $260,000. No assurance can be given as to what foreign exchange gains or losses there may be in future periods. WE MAY LIMIT INVESTMENTS IN OTHER COMPANIES AND NEW TECHNOLOGIES. Because of the continuing volatility in the financial markets, as well as other factors, we intend to limit equity investments in other companies and the purchase of new technologies during the next few fiscal quarters, and possibly longer. As a result, we may not take advantage of investment opportunities that could provide us significant financial benefits, or that could provide us with the opportunity to build relationships with other companies in our industry and target markets. 21 WE MAY HAVE DIFFICULTIES COLLECTING RECEIVABLES. A significant portion of our receivables is derived from customers in foreign countries. Due to varying economic conditions and business practices in these countries, our collections cycle from these customers may be longer than with our North American customers. In the event of adverse economic conditions, there will be a greater risk that our customers will have difficulties in paying us in accordance with the terms of their contracts, and our risk of bad debt may increase substantially. OUR GROSS MARGINS MAY DECREASE. We believe that certain factors in the current market may contribute to the risk that our gross margins will decrease in future fiscal quarters. We may have to lower our prices in order to accommodate our customers. In addition, many of our customers are reluctant to make a commitment to pay large upfront license fees or to guarantee purchases of a minimum number of licenses or licensed capacity, which could also cause our revenues to decrease. Some mobile network operators are also unwilling to pay for installations and customizations to our products, which could negatively impact our operating results. WE WILL NEED TO RECRUIT, TRAIN AND RETAIN KEY MANAGEMENT AND OTHER QUALIFIED PERSONNEL TO SUCCESSFULLY GROW OUR BUSINESS. Our ability to execute our business successfully depends in large part upon our ability to have a sufficient number of qualified employees to achieve our goals. There are only a limited number of persons with the requisite skills to serve in many key management and non-management positions, and it is difficult to retain and hire these persons. If we are unable to do so, our business could be negatively affected. The morale of our current employees may have been adversely affected by previous workforce reductions and departures, potentially impacting their performance or their willingness to remain with us. Our ability to attract potential new employees in the future may suffer if our reputation suffers as a result of these staffing reductions or otherwise. OUR SOFTWARE MAY CONTAIN DEFECTS OR ERRORS THAT COULD DAMAGE OUR REPUTATION. The software that we develop is complex and must satisfy the stringent technical requirements of our customers. We must develop our products quickly to keep pace with the rapidly changing industry in which we operate. Software products that are as complex as ours are likely to contain undetected errors or defects, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. In addition, our software may not properly operate when integrated with the systems of some customers or when used to deliver services to a large number of a customer’s subscribers. While we continually test our products for errors and work with customers to identify and correct bugs, errors in our product may be found in the future. Our software may not be free from errors or defects even after it has been tested, which could result in the rejection of our products and damage to our reputation, as well as lost revenue, diverted development resources and increased support costs. 22 WE MAY BE SUBJECT TO LITIGATION CLAIMS THAT COULD RESULT IN SIGNIFICANT COSTS TO US. As noted in Item 3 – Legal Proceedings, we and certain of our former officers and directors were named as defendants in a series of purported class actions relating to our initial public offering. Litigation may be time consuming, expensive, and distracting from the conduct of our business, and the outcome of litigation may be difficult to predict. The adverse resolution of any of these proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. OUR PRODUCTS CONTAIN ENCRYPTION TECHNOLOGY WHOSE EXPORT IS RESTRICTED BY LAW, WHICH MAY SLOW OUR GROWTH OR RESULT IN SIGNIFICANT COSTS. The U.S., Canadian and other foreign governments generally limit the export of encryption technology, which our products incorporate. A variety of cryptographic products generally require export approvals from certain government agencies in the case of exports from certain countries, although there are currently no restrictions on exports of these products from Canada into the U.S. If any export approval that we receive is revoked or modified, if our software is unlawfully exported or if the U.S., Canadian or other relevant government adopts new legislation or regulations restricting export of software and encryption technology, we may not be able to distribute our products to potential customers, which will cause a decline in sales. We may need to incur significant costs and divert resources in order to develop replacement technologies or may need to adopt inferior substitute technologies to satisfy these export restrictions. These replacement or substitute technologies may not be the preferred security technologies of our customers, in which case our business may not grow. In addition, we may suffer similar consequences if the laws of any other country limit the ability of third parties to sell encryption technologies to us. IF WE DO NOT HAVE SUFFICIENT CAPITAL TO FUND OUR OPERATIONS, WE MAY BE FORCED TO DISCONTINUE PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT, REDUCE OUR SALES AND MARKETING EFFORTS OR FOREGO ATTRACTIVE BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES. In order to help ensure that we would have sufficient capital to take advantage of our core business opportunities, we have taken significant actions to reduce our operating expenses and in the first half of 2004, raised $8.0 million of convertible debt. However, most of our operating expenses, such as employee compensation and lease payments for facilities and equipment, are relatively stable, and these expense levels are based in part on our expectations regarding future revenues. As a result, any sustained shortfall in our revenues relative to our expectations would negatively impact our operating results. Accordingly, if the cost-cutting actions that we have taken are insufficient, we may not have sufficient capital to fund our operations, and additional capital may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. 23 Any of these outcomes could adversely impact our ability to respond to competitive pressures or could prevent us from conducting all or a portion of our planned operations. We may need to undertake additional measures to reduce our operating expenses in the future. We expect that the cash we receive through our operations and our cash on hand will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs for the next 12 months. After that, we may need to raise additional funds, and additional financing may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. We also may require additional capital to acquire or invest in complementary businesses or products or to obtain the right to use complementary technologies. If we issue additional equity securities to raise funds, the ownership percentage of existing shareholders will be reduced. If we incur debt, the debt will rank senior to our common shares, we will incur debt service costs and we will likely have to enter into agreements that will restrict our operations in some respects and our ability to declare dividends to the holders of our common shares. The terms of the Secured Convertible Promissory Notes (the “Notes”) that we have issued to our affiliate, Austin Ventures, may also make it more difficult for us to obtain additional financing. For example, these Notes limit our ability to issue equity securities at prices that are less than specified amounts, and Austin Ventures has obtained a security interest as to our assets. The $8.0 million of convertible debt plus interest due at maturity of approximately $1.4 million is payable in the second quarter of 2007 in cash or shares at a conversion price of $3.07 at the option of Austin Ventures. If Austin Ventures demands cash we may not have sufficient funds to meet that demand and we may have to raise additional capital. We cannot predict the terms under which capital may be available to us at that time, if at all. RISK FACTORS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY OUR FUTURE REVENUES AND OPERATING RESULTS ARE DEPENDENT TO A LARGE EXTENT UPON UNCERTAIN GENERAL ECONOMIC CONDITIONS. Our future revenues and operating results are dependent to a large extent upon general economic conditions, conditions in the wireless market and within that market, our primary target market of mobile network operators. If general economic conditions are adverse, if the economies in which our target customers are located suffer from a recession, if demand for our solutions does not expand, or if war or terrorism impacts the U.S., Europe, Asia or our other target markets, our ability to increase our customer base may be limited, and our revenue may decrease further. 24 OUR BUSINESS WILL NOT GROW IF THE USE OF WIRELESS DATA SERVICES DOES NOT CONTINUE TO GROW. The markets for wireless data services and related products are still emerging and continued growth in demand for, and acceptance of, these services remains uncertain. Our products depend on the acceptance of wireless data services and Internet-enabled devices in the mobile network operator market. Current barriers to market acceptance of these services include cost, reliability, platform and distribution channel constraints, consumer privacy concerns, functionality and ease of use. Mobile individuals currently use many competing products, such as portable computers, to remotely access the Internet. These products generally are designed for the visual presentation of data, while, until recently, wireless devices historically have been limited in this regard. We cannot be certain that these barriers will be overcome. Since the market for our products is new and evolving, it is difficult to predict the size of this market or its future growth rate, if any. Our future financial performance will depend in large part upon the continued demand for data services through wireless devices. We cannot ensure that a sufficient volume of subscribers will demand these services. If the market for these wireless online services grows more slowly than we currently anticipate, our revenue may not grow. OUR FUTURE REVENUE DEPENDS ON CONSUMERS USING THE SERVICES THAT ARE BASED ON OUR PRODUCTS, AND IF OUR CUSTOMERS DO NOT SUCCESSFULLY MARKET THESE SERVICES, OUR REVENUE WILL NOT GROW. Revenue under most of our license agreements depends on the number of monthly subscribers to the services that are based on our products or the amount of use of those services. As a result, our revenue growth will be limited if the number of subscribers or use of the services that are based on our software does not increase. To stimulate consumer adoption of these services, our customers must implement our products quickly. However, our customers may delay implementation because of factors that are not within our control, including budgetary constraints, limited resources committed to the implementation process and limited internal technical support. Consumer adoption of these services also requires our customers to market these services. However, our customers currently have no obligation to launch a marketing campaign of any kind, may choose not to do so, or may not do so effectively. Some of our customers have only provided these services on a test basis to a limited number of consumers. Some of our customers may choose not to expand their use of these services if they do not perceive a sufficiently high rate of adoption among their consumers. As a result, we cannot ensure that a large number of consumers will use these services in the future. 25 OUR BUSINESS DEPENDS ON CONTINUED INVESTMENT AND IMPROVEMENT IN COMMUNICATION NETWORKS. Some of our customers and other mobile network operators have made substantial investments in 2.5 generation and 3rd generation networks. These networks are designed to support more complex applications, and to provide consumers with a more robust user experience. If network operators delay their deployments of these networks, or do not roll them out successfully, there could be reduced demand for our products and services. In addition, if communication service providers fail to continue to make investments in their networks or do so at a slower pace in the future, there may be less demand for our products and services. WE FACE COMPETITION FROM EXISTING AND NEW COMPETITORS AND FROM NEW PRODUCTS, WHICH COULD CAUSE US TO LOSE MARKET SHARE AND CAUSE OUR REVENUE TO DECLINE. The widespread adoption of open industry standards may make it easier for new market entrants and existing competitors to introduce products that compete with ours. In addition, competitors may develop or market products and services that are superior or more cost-effective than ours, which could decrease demand for our products and cause our revenue to decline. Currently, our competitors include: • mobile access gateway vendors and messaging solution providers; • alerts focused businesses; and • network equipment and device manufacturers. We may also face competition in the future from established companies that have not previously entered the market for wireless data infrastructure software and services. Barriers to entry in the software market are relatively low and it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. See Item 1 — Business - “Competition” above. MANY OF OUR COMPETITORS ARE SIGNIFICANTLY LARGER THAN US. Many of our competitors are significantly larger than us in terms of revenue, marketing and research and development expenditures and numbers of employees in their sales, services and support organizations. The competitors we face on our XMS sales opportunities include Nokia, Ericsson, Comverse, Alcatel and Openwave. Our success is dependent on our ability to win our share of these opportunities against these larger competitors and to retain our customers. Many of these competitors are able to bundle other products (including handsets and/or network equipment) into sales of competitive products, which they might argue reduces risk to their customers. We do not believe that we can offer similar product bundles, which could prevent us from competing with these competitors, offering similar pricing, retaining key customers or acquiring new customers. 26 CHANGES IN GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS MAY RESULT IN INCREASED EXPENSES, TAXES OR LICENSING FEES THAT COULD DECREASE THE DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCT AND NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR RESULTS. We are not currently subject to direct regulation by any governmental agency, other than regulations applicable to businesses generally and laws and regulations directly applicable to access to, or commerce on, the Internet and wireless networks. However, a number of legislative and regulatory proposals under consideration by federal, state, provincial, local and foreign governmental organizations may lead to laws or regulations concerning various aspects of the Internet and wireless networks, including but not limited to, online content, user privacy, taxation, access charges and liability for third-party activities. Additionally, it is uncertain how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, copyright, trade secrets, libel and personal privacy will be applied to the Internet and wireless networks. The adoption of new laws or the broader application of existing laws may expose us to significant liabilities and additional operational requirements and may decrease the growth in the use of the Internet and wireless networks, which could, in turn, both decrease the demand for our products and increase the cost of doing business. RISKS RELATING TO INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY WE RELY ON THIRD-PARTY SOFTWARE, TECHNOLOGY AND CONTENT, THE LOSS OF WHICH COULD FORCE US TO USE INFERIOR SUBSTITUTE TECHNOLOGY OR TO CEASE OFFERING OUR PRODUCTS. We must now, and may in the future, license or otherwise obtain access to the intellectual property of third parties. In addition, we use, and will use in the future, some third-party software that may not be available in the future on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. For example, we could lose our ability to use this software if the rights of our suppliers to license it were challenged by individuals or companies that asserted ownership of these rights. The loss of, or inability to maintain or obtain, any required intellectual property could require us to use substitute technology, which could be more expensive or of lower quality or performance, or force us to cease offering our products. Moreover, some of our license agreements from third parties are non-exclusive and, as a result, our competitors may have access to some of the technologies used by us. IF OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY IS NOT ADEQUATELY PROTECTED, WE MAY LOSE OUR COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE. We depend on our ability to develop and maintain the proprietary aspects of our technology. We seek to protect our proprietary technology, including software, documentation and other written materials under patent, trade secret and copyright laws, as well as confidentiality provisions in contracts with our customers, suppliers, contractors and employees, all of which afford limited protection. We cannot ensure that these steps will be adequate, that we will be able to secure the desired patent or trademark registrations for our patent/trademark applications in Canada, the U.S. or other countries, or that third parties will not breach the confidentiality provisions in our contracts or infringe or misappropriate our copyrights, patents or pending patents, trademarks and other proprietary rights. Similarly, we cannot ensure that our employees will comply with the confidentiality agreements that they have entered into with us, and misappropriate our technology for the benefit of a third party. If a third party or any employee breaches the 27 confidentiality provisions in our contracts or misappropriates or infringes on our intellectual property, we may not have adequate remedies. In addition, third parties may independently discover or invent competing technologies that are not covered by our patents or may reverse-engineer our trade secrets, software or other technology. Moreover, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent, as do the laws of the U.S. and Canada. Therefore, the measures we are taking to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate. THIRD PARTIES MAY CLAIM THAT OUR PRODUCTS INFRINGE ON THEIR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY, WHICH COULD RESULT IN SIGNIFICANT EXPENSES FOR LITIGATION OR FOR DEVELOPING OR LICENSING NEW TECHNOLOGY. Although we are not currently aware of any claims asserted by third parties that our products infringe their intellectual property rights, in the future, third parties may assert claims of this kind. We cannot predict whether third parties will assert these types of claims against us or against the licensors of technology licensed to us, or whether those claims will harm our business. If we are forced to defend against these types of claims, whether they are with or without any merit or whether they are resolved in favor of or against us, or our licensors, we may face costly litigation and diversion of management’s attention and resources. As a result of these disputes, we may have to develop costly non-infringing technology, or enter into licensing agreements. These agreements, if necessary, may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all, which could prevent us from selling our products, increase our expenses or make our products less attractive to customers. RISKS RELATING TO THE OWNERSHIP AND TRADING OF OUR COMMON SHARES IF WE CAN NO LONGER FULFILL STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING REQUIREMENTS, THE LIQUIDITY OF OUR COMMON SHARES WILL BE LIMITED. On March 8, 2006, we received a Nasdaq Staff Deficiency Letter indicating that we are not in compliance with the Nasdaq’s Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(2)(B), which requires a listed company to have a minimum of $2,500,000 in stockholders’ equity, or $35,000,000 market value of listed securities, or $500,000 of net income from continuing operations for the most recently completed fiscal year or two of the three most recently completed fiscal years. We have submitted a response, and Nasdaq staff is reviewing our eligibility for continued listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market; however, in the event that the plan to regain and remain in compliance is not acceptable to Nasdaq staff, we may be delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market. The Toronto Stock Exchange (“TSX”) has its own listing requirements, with which we currently comply. 28 If our common shares are not listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market, trading of our common shares could be conducted in the U.S. in the over-the-counter market on an electronic bulletin board established for unlisted securities, or directly through market makers in our common shares. If our common shares trade in the U.S. over-the-counter market, an investor may find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations for the price of, the common shares. A delisting from the Nasdaq Capital Market and failure to obtain listing on such other market or exchange would subject our securities to the so-called U.S. “penny stock rules,” which impose additional sales practice and market-making requirements on broker-dealers who sell or make a market in such securities. In addition, when the market price of our common shares is less than $5.00 per share, as is the case as the date of this filing, we are subject to the U.S. penny stock rules even if our common shares are still listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market. THE RIGHTS THAT HAVE BEEN AND MAY IN THE FUTURE BE GRANTED TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS MAY ALLOW OUR BOARD AND MANAGEMENT TO DETER A POTENTIAL ACQUISITION OF OUR COMPANY. Our Board of Directors has adopted a shareholder rights plan, or “poison pill” which will expire on the date of our next shareholders’ meeting in 2006. While our Board of Directors currently does not intend to seek shareholder approval to renew the shareholder rights plan, it remains in effect at the present time. Under the plan, rights to purchase common shares have been issued to holders of common shares. These rights become exercisable under certain circumstances in which someone acquires 20% or more of our outstanding shares. As part of the $8 million financing transactions in May 2004 and June 2004 between Austin Ventures and us, our Board of Directors agreed to waive the terms and provisions of the plan to permit the acquisition by Austin Ventures or its affiliates of up to forty-nine percent of our outstanding common shares. As a result of the plan, anyone wishing to take over the company may be forced under certain circumstances to negotiate a transaction with our Board and management or comply with certain bid criteria in order not to trigger the exercise of rights. The need to negotiate with the Board or management or to comply with certain bid criteria could add complexity to a proposed takeover. For example, a proposed hostile bidder might have to bring court or regulatory proceedings to have the shareholder rights plan cease-traded. This could prolong the take-over process and, arguably, deter a potential bidder. OUR ABILITY TO ISSUE PREFERRED SHARES COULD MAKE IT MORE DIFFICULT FOR A THIRD PARTY TO ACQUIRE US, TO THE DETRIMENT OF HOLDERS OF COMMON SHARES. Our ability to issue preferred shares could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, to the detriment of holders of common shares. Provisions in our articles of incorporation may make it difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our shareholders. Our articles authorize our Board to issue, at its discretion, an unlimited number of preferred shares. Without shareholder approval, but subject to regulatory approval in certain circumstances, the Board has the authority to attach special rights, including voting or dividend rights, to the preferred shares. Preferred shareholders who possess these rights could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. 29 IF THE PROPOSED PURCHASE BY AUSTIN VENTURES OF THE BALANCE OF OUR COMMON SHARES DOES NOT PROCEED, YOU MAY NOT HAVE AS BENEFICIAL AN OPPORTUNITY TO SELL YOUR SHARES, AND RESOURCES THAT WE HAVE INVESTED IN NEGOTIATING THE TRANSACTION MAY NOT PRODUCE ANY BENEFIT. On March 9, 2006, Austin Ventures submitted a revised non-binding proposal to acquire all of our outstanding common shares not then-owned by Austin Ventures for cash consideration of $3.34 per common share. After careful consideration and evaluation by our Special Committee of independent directors, which had been previously constituted in order to consider potential value enhancing strategic transactions for our shareholders, we accepted the proposal. The proposal involves certain termination rights by either party, as well as an expiry date of April 6, 2006 in the event that a definitive agreement is not reached by that time. If the transaction does not proceed, or proceeds on less favorable terms than as proposed, we may not have alternative transactions available to us or our shareholders that are as beneficial as the transaction that has been proposed. In pursuing this transaction, we will have also expended significant management attention and resources, which may be of little or no value if an agreement cannot be achieved and closed. YOUR TAX LIABILITY MAY INCREASE IF WE ARE TREATED AS A PASSIVE FOREIGN INVESTMENT COMPANY. If at any time we qualify as a passive foreign investment company under U.S. tax laws, U.S. Holders (as defined below in this Report) may be subject to adverse tax consequences. We could be a passive foreign investment company if 75% or more of our gross income in any year is considered passive income for U.S. tax purposes. For this purpose, passive income generally includes interest, dividends, some types of rents and royalties, and gains from the sale of assets that produce these types of income. In addition, we could be classified as a passive foreign investment company if the average percentage of our assets during any year that produced passive income or that were held to produce passive income, is at least 50%. If we are classified as a passive foreign investment company, and if U.S. Holders sell any of their common shares or receive some types of distributions from us, they may have to pay taxes that are higher than if we were not considered a passive foreign investment company. It is impossible to predict how much shareholders’ taxes would increase, if at all. 30 Shares held by a U.S. Holder generally are treated as shares in a passive foreign investment company if, at any time during the holding period of the U.S. Holder with respect to such shares, we were a passive foreign investment company. There is a risk that we were a passive foreign investment company for the year 2005 or prior years. To determine whether we were a passive foreign investment company, our revenue and expenses and the value of our assets would need to be examined each year. The tests are complex and require, among other things, that we determine how much of our income each year will be passive income. In addition, we are required to determine each year whether the value of our assets that produce passive income or are held to produce passive income will constitute at least 50% of our total assets. The manner in which the tests apply to our business is not certain. In certain years prior to 2005, as a result of the size of our cash position, based on the published position of the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) that for this purpose, cash is considered to be an asset which produces passive income, even if the cash is held as working capital, we would have been considered a passive foreign investment company. The published position of the IRS that cash held as working capital is a passive asset has not been promulgated in regulations, and no other official guidance has been issued on the question. Therefore, although the risk that we were a passive foreign investment company is substantial, it is unclear that we were a passive foreign investment company for such prior years, and shareholders should consult their own advisors regarding our status as a passive foreign investment company for 2005 and prior years. Even if it were determined that we were not a passive foreign investment company for 2005 or prior years, no assurances can be given that we will not be a passive foreign investment company in future years. See Item 5 “Market for Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters – Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations.” Each holder of our common shares is urged to consult, his, her or its own tax advisor to discuss the potential consequences to such investor if at any time we qualify as a passive foreign investment company. FUTURE SALES OF COMMON SHARES BY OUR EXISTING SHAREHOLDERS COULD CAUSE OUR SHARE PRICE TO FALL. The volume of trading in our common shares on the TSX and the NASDAQ Capital Market has not been substantial. As a result, even small dispositions of our common shares in the public market could cause the market price of the common shares to fall. The perception among investors that these sales will occur could also produce this effect. We have granted options to purchase our common shares in accordance with our 2005 Stock Incentive Plan, 2000 Stock Option Plan and previous stock option plans. The exercise of options and the subsequent sale of shares could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. In addition, our affiliate, Austin Ventures, owns approximately 9% of our common shares, and if Austin Ventures exercises its right to convert the Notes held by it plus the interest due at March 1, 2006 into common shares, it will own approximately 38.5% of our outstanding common shares. As a result, sales of our common shares by Austin Ventures could adversely affect the market price of our shares. Austin Ventures has the right to require us to register these shares with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) for resale. 31 A LIMITED NUMBER OF SHAREHOLDERS OWN A SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF OUR COMMON SHARES, AND MAY ACT, OR PREVENT CERTAIN TYPES OF CORPORATE ACTIONS, TO THE DETRIMENT OF OTHER SHAREHOLDERS. Our significant shareholders and members of our management team, including Austin Ventures, which is affiliated with a member of our Board of Directors, beneficially owned approximately 10% of our common shares as of March 1, 2006. Austin Ventures may receive additional common shares upon conversion of the Notes that it owns (please see note 8 to our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005). Accordingly, these shareholders may, if they act together, exercise significant influence over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of a majority of the directors and the determination of significant corporate actions. This concentration could also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control that could be otherwise beneficial to our shareholders. Furthermore, in the event that Austin Ventures were to convert all or part of the Notes as it is entitled to do, the ownership percentage of existing shareholders will be reduced, which would be reflected in certain performance metrics of the Corporation such as earnings per share, and which may also negatively impact the market value of our securities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 