ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business faces significant risks. These risks include those described below and may include additional risks of which we are not currently aware or that we currently do not believe are material. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occurs, they may materially harm our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. As a result, the market price of our common stock could decline. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not yet identified or that we think are immaterial may also materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. The following risks should be read in conjunction with the other information set forth in this report. We have a history of net losses and an accumulated deficit, and we may never generate sufficient revenue to achieve or maintain profitability in the future. We have incurred significant net losses and negative cash flows from operations. To date, we have financed our operations primarily through the public and private sale of securities and net product sales. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we had net losses of $30.5 million, $77.4 million, and $73.6 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of $481.2 million. We have incurred these losses principally from costs incurred in our research and development programs and from our selling, general and administrative expenses. On September 24, 2009, we obtained accelerated approval from the FDA for FOLOTYN for use as a single agent for the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory PTCL. Our ability to achieve profitability is dependent on our ability, alone or with partners, to significantly increase sales of FOLOTYN for the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory PTCL. We are also developing FOLOTYN for use as a single agent and in combination therapy regimens in other hematologic malignancies, which may or may not lead to obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals to market FOLOTYN for additional indications. We expect to continue to spend substantial amounts on research and development, including amounts spent on conducting clinical trials and seeking additional regulatory approvals for FOLOTYN, and commercializing FOLOTYN for the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory PTCL. As a result, we may never generate sufficient revenue from product sales to become profitable or generate positive cash flows. Our near-term prospects are dependent on FOLOTYN. If we are unable to significantly increase sales of FOLOTYN for the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory PTCL our ability to achieve profitability will be adversely affected. FOLOTYN is our only product approved for marketing by the FDA and our ability to achieve profitability in the near term is entirely dependent upon sales of FOLOTYN. We may not be able to significantly increase sales of FOLOTYN for a number of reasons, including: •we may not be able to establish or demonstrate in the medical community the safety and efficacy of FOLOTYN and any potential advantages over existing therapeutics and products currently in clinical development; •doctors may be hesitant to prescribe FOLOTYN until results from our post-approval studies are available or other long term data regarding efficacy and safety exists; •results from our Phase 3 post-approval studies may fail to verify the clinical benefit of FOLOTYN for the treatment of T-cell lymphoma; •we may not be able to successfully complete clinical trials; •we may not be able to establish FOLOTYN as the second-line standard of care for PTCL; •we may not be able to continue to manufacture FOLOTYN in commercial quantities or at acceptable costs; 23 Table of Contents •our limited experience in marketing, selling and distributing FOLOTYN; •reimbursement and coverage policies of government and private payers such as Medicare, Medicaid, insurance companies, health maintenance organizations and other plan administrators; •the relative price of FOLOTYN as compared to alternative treatment options; •the introduction of competitive products; •the relatively low incidence and prevalence rates of relapsed or refractory PTCL, including the reliability of our estimates; and •we may not have adequate financial or other resources to significantly increase sales of FOLOTYN. If we are unable to significantly increase sales of FOLOTYN for the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory PTCL, our ability to achieve profitability will be adversely affected and our stock price would likely decline. Our operating results are unpredictable and may fluctuate. If our operating results are below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the trading price of our stock could decline. Our operating results to date have fluctuated from quarter to quarter and year to year. We believe that our quarterly and annual results of operations may continue to fluctuate and will be difficult to predict due to a variety of factors, including: •the timing and amount of revenue generated from sales of FOLOTYN. For example, we recorded an increase in net product sales of approximately $3.2 million, or $0.03 per share of common stock, in the fourth quarter of 2011 relating to an infrequently occurring increase in our distributors' year-end 2011 inventory levels as compared to average inventory levels for 2011. The inventory levels of our distributors are not within our control and our distributors may increase or reduce their inventory levels on a quarterly basis which could cause our net product sales and operating results to fluctuate significantly; •the timing and costs associated with our sales and marketing activities for promoting FOLOTYN; •the timing and costs associated with manufacturing clinical and commercial supplies of FOLOTYN; •the timing and costs associated with conducting preclinical and clinical development of FOLOTYN, including the post-approval clinical studies required by the FDA; •the timing and costs associated with our evaluation of, and decisions with respect to, the potential development of FOLOTYN for additional therapeutic indications; •the introduction of competitive products; •the timing, costs and revenue associated with our strategic collaboration with Mundipharma for the co-development of FOLOTYN globally and commercialization outside the United States and Canada; and •our evaluation of, and decisions with respect to, potential in-licensing or product acquisition opportunities or other strategic alternatives. In addition, we measure compensation cost for stock-based awards made to employees at the grant date of the award, based on the fair value of the award, and recognize the cost as an expense over the employee's requisite service period. As the variables that we use as a basis for valuing these awards change over time, including our underlying stock price, the magnitude of the expense that we must 24 Table of Contents recognize may vary significantly. Any such variance from one period to the next could cause a significant fluctuation in our operating results. For these reasons, it is difficult for us to accurately forecast future profits or losses. As a result, it is possible that in some quarters our operating results could be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline, perhaps substantially. If we are unable to maintain adequate sales, marketing or distribution capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to perform some of these functions, we will not be able to commercialize FOLOTYN effectively. The approval of FOLOTYN for the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory PTCL is our first U.S. approval. Accordingly, we have limited experience in sales, marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical products. We may not be able to adequately maintain the necessary sales, marketing, supply chain management and reimbursement capabilities on our own or enter into arrangements with third parties to perform these functions in a timely manner or on acceptable terms. Additionally, maintaining sales, marketing and distribution capabilities may be more expensive than we anticipate, requiring us to divert capital from other intended purposes or preventing us from building our sales, marketing and distribution capabilities to the desired levels. To be successful we must: •recruit and retain adequate numbers of effective sales personnel; •effectively train our sales personnel in the benefits of FOLOTYN; •establish and maintain successful sales and marketing and education programs that encourage physicians to recommend FOLOTYN to their patients; and •manage geographically dispersed sales and marketing operations. The commercialization of FOLOTYN requires us to manage relationships with an increasing number of collaborative partners, suppliers and third-party contractors. If we are unable to successfully establish and maintain the required infrastructure, either internally or through third parties, and successfully manage an increasing number of relationships, we will have difficulty growing our business. If we are unable to develop and maintain adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, independently or with others, we may not be able to significantly increase sales of FOLOTYN or become profitable. If we enter into additional strategic partnerships, we may be required to relinquish important rights to and control over the development of FOLOTYN or otherwise be subject to unfavorable terms. Our relationship with Mundipharma is, and any other strategic partnerships or collaborations with pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies we may establish will be, subject to a number of risks, including: •we may not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that our strategic partners devote to the development or commercialization of FOLOTYN; •strategic partners may delay clinical trials, provide insufficient funding, terminate a clinical trial or abandon a product candidate, repeat or conduct new clinical trials or require a new version of a product candidate for clinical testing; •strategic partners may not pursue further development and commercialization of products resulting from the strategic partnering arrangement or may elect to discontinue research and development programs; •strategic partners may not commit adequate resources to the marketing and distribution of FOLOTYN or any other products, limiting our potential revenues from these products; 25 Table of Contents •disputes may arise between us and our strategic partners that result in the delay or termination of the research, development or commercialization of FOLOTYN or any other product candidate or that result in costly litigation or arbitration that diverts management's attention and consumes resources; •strategic partners may experience financial difficulties; •strategic partners may not properly maintain or defend our intellectual property rights or may use our proprietary information in a manner that could jeopardize or invalidate our proprietary information or expose us to potential litigation; •business combinations or significant changes in a strategic partner's business strategy may also adversely affect a strategic partner's willingness or ability to complete its obligations under any arrangement; •strategic partners could independently move forward with a competing product candidate developed either independently or in collaboration with others, including our competitors; •strategic partners could terminate the arrangement or allow it to expire, which would delay the development and may increase the cost of developing FOLOTYN or any other product candidate; •we may have obligations to our strategic partners that we prioritize over internal company matters/goals in order to maintain good relationships with our strategic partners and to avoid liabilities that may be associated with breach of such obligations; •we may be required to undertake the expenditure of substantial operational, financial and management resources in integrating new businesses, technologies and products; •we may be required to issue equity securities that would dilute our existing stockholders' percentage ownership; and •we may be required to assume substantial actual or contingent liabilities. Even though we have obtained accelerated approval to market FOLOTYN for the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory PTCL, we are subject to ongoing regulatory obligations and review, including post-approval requirements. FOLOTYN was approved for the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory PTCL under the FDA's accelerated approval regulations, which allow the FDA to approve products for cancer or other serious or life threatening diseases based on initial positive data from clinical trials. Under these provisions, we are subject to certain post-approval requirements pursuant to which we are required to conduct two randomized Phase 3 trials to confirm FOLOTYN's clinical benefit in patients with T-cell lymphoma. The FDA has also required that we conduct two Phase 1 trials to assess whether FOLOTYN poses a serious risk of altered drug levels resulting from organ impairment. Failure to complete the studies or adhere to the timelines established by the FDA could result in penalties, including fines or withdrawal of FOLOTYN from the market. The FDA may also initiate proceedings to withdraw approval or request that we voluntarily withdraw FOLOTYN from the market if our Phase 3 studies fail to confirm FOLOTYN's clinical benefit. Further, the FDA may require us to amend the FOLOTYN package insert, including by strengthening the warnings and precautions section or institute a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy based on the results of these studies or clinical experience. We are also subject to additional, continuing post-approval regulatory obligations, including the possibility of additional clinical studies required by the FDA, safety reporting requirements and regulatory oversight of the promotion and marketing of FOLOTYN. In addition, we or our third-party manufacturers are required to adhere to the FDA's current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP. The cGMP regulations cover all aspects of the 26 Table of Contents manufacturing, storage, testing, quality control and record keeping relating to FOLOTYN. Furthermore, we or our third-party manufacturers are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities to ensure compliance with cGMP or other applicable government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. We have limited control over a third-party manufacturer's compliance with these regulations and standards. If we or our third-party manufacturers fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we may be subject to fines, suspension, modification or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. The status of coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers for newly approved health care drugs is uncertain and failure to obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement could limit our ability to generate revenue. Our ability to successfully commercialize FOLOTYN for the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory PTCL or for other future indications will depend, in part, on the extent to which coverage and reimbursement for FOLOTYN is available from government and health administration authorities, private health insurers, managed care programs and other third-party payers. Significant uncertainty exists as to the coverage and reimbursement of newly approved health care products. In addition, in March 2010, the U.S. Congress enacted legislation to reform the health care system that includes cost containment measures that may adversely affect the amount of reimbursement for pharmaceutical products, including FOLOTYN. These measures include increased minimum rebates for products covered by Medicaid programs and extending such rebates to drugs dispensed to Medicaid beneficiaries enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations as well as expansion of the 340B Public Health Services drug discount program. Healthcare providers and third-party payers use coding systems to identify diagnoses, procedures, services, drugs, pharmaceutical devices, equipment and other health-related items and services. Proper coding is an integral component to receiving appropriate reimbursement for the administration of FOLOTYN and related services. The majority of payers use nationally recognized code sets to report medical conditions, services and drugs. We have obtained transitional pass-through status that enables FOLOTYN to be reimbursed under the hospital outpatient prospective payment system, and have received a permanent reimbursement J-Code for FOLOTYN. We cannot guarantee, however, that healthcare providers will continue to receive adequate reimbursement for FOLOTYN. Third-party payers, including Medicare, are challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Government and other third-party payers increasingly are attempting to contain health care costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new drugs and by refusing, in some cases, to provide coverage for uses of approved products for disease conditions for which the FDA has not granted labeling approval. Third-party insurance coverage may not be available to patients for FOLOTYN. If government and other third-party payers do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for FOLOTYN, FOLOTYN's market acceptance may be adversely affected. We are dependent upon a small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of, or significant reduction or cancellation in sales to, any one of these customers could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In the United States, we sell FOLOTYN to a small number of distributors who in turn sell-through to patient health care providers. These distributors also provide multiple logistics services relating to the distribution of FOLOTYN, including transportation, warehousing, cross-docking, inventory management, packaging and freight-forwarding. We do not promote FOLOTYN to these distributors and they do not set or determine demand for FOLOTYN. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, three companies affiliated with AmerisourceBergen Corporation accounted for substantially all of our FOLOTYN sales. We expect significant customer concentration to 27 Table of Contents continue for the foreseeable future. Our ability to generate sales of FOLOTYN will depend, in part, on the extent to which these distributors are able to provide adequate distribution of FOLOTYN to patient health care providers. Although we believe we can find alternative distributors on a relatively short notice, our revenue during that period of time may suffer and we may incur additional costs to replace a distributor. The loss of any large customer, a significant reduction in sales we make to them, any cancellation of orders they have made with us or any failure to pay for the products we have shipped to them could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If the distributors that we rely upon to sell FOLOTYN fail to perform, our business may be adversely affected. Our success depends on the continued customer support efforts of our network of distributors. The use of distributors involves certain risks, including, but not limited to, risks that these distributors will: •not provide us with accurate or timely information regarding their inventories, the number of patients who are using FOLOTYN or complaints about FOLOTYN; •not effectively distribute or support FOLOTYN; •reduce or discontinue their efforts to sell or support FOLOTYN; •be unable to satisfy financial obligations to us or others; and •cease operations. Any such failure may result in decreased sales of FOLOTYN, which would harm our business. If we fail to comply with healthcare fraud and abuse laws, we could face substantial penalties and our business, operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. As a biopharmaceutical company, even though we do not and will not control referrals of health care services or bill directly to Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payers, certain federal and state healthcare laws and regulations pertaining to fraud and abuse are applicable to our business. These laws and regulations, include, among others: •the federal Anti-Kickback statute, which prohibits, among other things, persons from soliciting, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce either the referral of an individual for an item or service or the purchasing or ordering of a good or service, for which payment may be made under federal health care programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; •federal false claims laws that prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payers that are false or fraudulent; •the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, which prohibits executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters and which also imposes certain requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information; •federal self-referral laws, such as STARK, which prohibit a physician from making a referral to a provider of certain health services with which the physician or the physician's family member has a financial interest; and 28 Table of Contents •state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws that may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payer, including commercial insurers, and state laws governing the privacy of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by HIPAA. Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution under the federal Anti-Kickback statute, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration intended to induce prescriptions, purchases or recommendations may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. Further, the recently enacted health care reform law known as the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as modified by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010, or PPACA, amends the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback and criminal health care fraud statutes. A person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. In addition, the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the false claims laws. Our practices may not in all cases meet all of the criteria for safe harbor protection from anti-kickback liability. Although physicians are permitted to, based on their medical judgment, prescribe products for indications other than those cleared or approved by the FDA, manufacturers are prohibited from promoting their products for such off-label uses. We market FOLOTYN for the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory PTCL and provide promotional materials and training programs to physicians regarding the use of FOLOTYN for the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory PTCL. Although we believe our marketing, promotional materials and training programs for physicians do not constitute off-label promotion of FOLOTYN, the FDA may disagree. If the FDA determines that our promotional materials, training or other activities constitute off-label promotion of FOLOTYN, the FDA could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or other activities or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, including the issuance of a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. It is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they believe that the alleged improper promotion led to the submission and payment of claims for an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. Even if it is later determined we are not in violation of these laws, we may be faced with negative publicity, incur significant expenses defending our position and have to divert significant management resources from other matters. The PPACA imposes new reporting and disclosure requirements for pharmaceutical and device manufacturers with regard to payments or other transfers of value made to physicians and teaching hospitals, effective March 30, 2013. Such information will be made publicly available in a searchable format beginning September 30, 2013. In addition, pharmaceutical and device manufacturers will also be required to report and disclose investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members during the preceding calendar year. Failure to submit required information may result in civil monetary penalties of up to $150,000 per year (and up to $1 million per year for "knowing failures"), for all payments, transfers of value or ownership or investment interests not reported in an annual submission. In recent years, several states and localities, including California, Connecticut, the District of Columbia, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Nevada, Vermont, and West Virginia, have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs, and file periodic reports with the state or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials, and other activities. Similar legislation is being considered in other states. Many of these requirements are new and uncertain, and the penalties for failure to comply with these requirements are unclear. 29 Table of Contents Nonetheless, if we are found not to be in full compliance with these laws, we could face enforcement action and fines and other penalties, and could receive adverse publicity. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the healthcare fraud and abuse laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our operations could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Although compliance programs can mitigate the risk of investigation and prosecution for violations of these laws, the risks cannot be entirely eliminated. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business. Moreover, achieving and sustaining compliance with all applicable federal and state fraud and abuse laws may be costly. If our competitors develop and market products that are more effective than FOLOTYN, our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated. Even though we have obtained approval to market FOLOTYN for the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory PTCL, our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and market products that are more effective, have fewer side effects or are less expensive than FOLOTYN for this or any other potential indication. Our existing and potential competitors include large, fully-integrated pharmaceutical companies and more established biotechnology companies, each of which have significant resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, testing, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing. Academic institutions, government agencies, and other public and private research organizations conduct research, seek patent protection and establish collaborative arrangements for research, development, manufacturing and marketing. It is possible that competitors will succeed in developing technologies that are more effective than those being developed by us or that would render our technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. For example, in June 2011, the FDA granted accelerated approval for romidepsin, marketed by Celgene, Inc., for the treatment of patients with PTCL who have received at least one prior therapy. This was the second indication approved for romidepsin, which was initially approved by the FDA in November 2009 for the treatment of patients with CTCL who have received at least one prior systemic therapy. The FDA also granted accelerated approval of brentuximab vedotin, marketed by Seattle Genetics, Inc., in August 2011 for two indications, one of which was for the treatment of patients with systemic anaplastic large cell lymphoma, or ALCL, after failure of at least one prior multi-agent chemotherapy regimen. ALCL is one of the subtypes of PTCL included in the labels of both FOLOTYN and romidepsin. In addition, we are aware of multiple investigational agents that are currently being studied in clinical trials for PTCL, including belinostat and alisertib, which, if approved, may compete with FOLOTYN in the United States. We cannot predict when or if we will obtain regulatory approval to market FOLOTYN in the United States for any additional indications or in any other countries. We are subject to stringent regulations with respect to product safety and efficacy by various international, federal, state and local authorities. FOLOTYN has not been approved for marketing in the United States for any indication other than the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory PTCL. In addition, FOLOTYN has not been approved for marketing for this or any other indication in any other country. A pharmaceutical product cannot be marketed for a particular indication in the United States or most other countries until it has completed a rigorous and extensive regulatory review and approval process for that indication. Satisfaction of regulatory requirements typically takes many years, is dependent upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. Of particular significance are the requirements covering research and 30 Table of Contents development, preclinical and clinical testing, manufacturing, quality control, labeling and promotion of drugs for human use. We may not obtain the necessary regulatory approvals to market FOLOTYN in the United States for any additional indications or in any other countries. For example, in January 2012, CHMP issued an opinion recommending against conditional approval of FOLOTYN for the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory PTCL. In January 2012, we submitted a request to the EMA for re-examination of the CHMP opinion. The re-examination is currently in progress, and we expect a final opinion on the re-examination to be issued by the CHMP in the second quarter of 2012, although we can provide no assurance that the re-examination will be successful. If we fail to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals to market FOLOTYN in the United States for any additional indications or in any other countries, our ability to generate significant revenue or achieve profitability may be adversely affected. Reports of adverse events or safety concerns involving FOLOTYN or similar small molecule chemotherapeutic agents could delay or prevent us from obtaining or maintaining regulatory approval or negatively impact sales of FOLOTYN. FOLOTYN may cause serious adverse events. These adverse events could interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials of FOLOTYN, including the FDA-required post-approval studies, and could result in the FDA or other regulatory authorities denying or withdrawing approval of FOLOTYN for any or all indications, including for the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory PTCL. Adverse events may also negatively impact the sales of FOLOTYN. The FDA, other regulatory authorities or we may suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time. We may also be required to update the FOLOTYN package insert based on reports of adverse events or safety concerns or implement a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy, which could adversely affect FOLOTYN's acceptance in the market. We cannot assure you that FOLOTYN will be safe for human use. At present, there are a number of clinical trials being conducted by other pharmaceutical companies involving small molecule chemotherapeutic agents. If other pharmaceutical companies announce that they observed frequent adverse events or unknown safety issues in their trials involving compounds similar to, or competitive with, FOLOTYN, we could encounter delays in the timing of our clinical trials or difficulties in obtaining or maintaining the necessary regulatory approvals for FOLOTYN. In addition, the public perception of FOLOTYN might be adversely affected, which could harm our business and results of operations and cause the market price of our common stock to decline, even if the concern relates to another company's product or product candidate. If FOLOTYN fails to meet safety or efficacy endpoints in clinical trials for additional indications, it will not receive regulatory approval and we will be unable to market FOLOTYN for those indications studied. We have ongoing clinical trials involving FOLOTYN and plan to initiate additional trials to evaluate FOLOTYN's potential clinical utility in other hematologic malignancies. FOLOTYN may not prove to be safe and efficacious in clinical trials for other indications and may not meet all of the applicable regulatory requirements needed to receive regulatory approval for those indications. The clinical development and regulatory approval process is expensive and takes many years. Failure can occur at any stage of development, and the timing of any regulatory approval cannot be accurately predicted. In addition, failure to comply with the FDA and other applicable U.S. and foreign regulatory requirements applicable to clinical trials may subject us to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions. As part of the regulatory approval process, we must conduct clinical trials for FOLOTYN and any other product candidate to demonstrate safety and efficacy to the satisfaction of the FDA and other regulatory authorities abroad. The number and design of clinical trials that will be required varies depending on the product candidate, the condition being evaluated, the trial results and regulations applicable to any particular product candidate. The designs of our clinical trials for FOLOTYN are 31 Table of Contents based on many assumptions about the expected effect of FOLOTYN, and if those assumptions prove incorrect, the clinical trials may not demonstrate the safety or efficacy of FOLOTYN. Preliminary results may not be confirmed upon full analysis of the detailed results of a trial, and prior clinical trial program designs and results may not be predictive of future clinical trial designs or results. Product candidates in later stage clinical trials may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy despite having progressed through initial clinical trials with acceptable results. For example, we terminated the development of EFAPROXYN, one of our former product candidates, when it failed to demonstrate statistically significant improvement in overall survival in the targeted patients in a Phase 3 clinical trial. If FOLOTYN fails to show clinically significant benefits in any clinical trial or for any particular indication, it may not be approved for marketing for such indication. Additionally, if FOLOTYN is demonstrated to be unsafe in clinical trials for other indications, such demonstration could negatively impact FOLOTYN's existing approval for the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory PTCL. Even if we achieve positive interim results in clinical trials, these results do not necessarily predict final results, and acceptable results in early trials may not be repeated in later trials. Data obtained from preclinical and clinical activities are susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory clearances, and the FDA can request that we conduct additional clinical trials. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier trials. In addition, negative or inconclusive results or adverse safety events during a clinical trial could cause a clinical trial to be repeated or terminated. Also, failure to design clinical trial protocols to enroll appropriate patients could result in excessive adverse events or failure to meet efficacy objectives and could cause a clinical trial to be repeated or terminated. If we have to conduct additional clinical trials for FOLOTYN for any particular indication, it will significantly increase our expenses and may delay marketing of FOLOTYN for such indication. Even if FOLOTYN meets safety and efficacy endpoints in clinical trials for additional indications, regulatory authorities may not approve FOLOTYN, or we may face post-approval problems that require withdrawal of FOLOTYN from the market. We will not be able to market FOLOTYN in the United States for any additional indications or in any other countries for any indications until we have obtained the necessary regulatory approvals. Our receipt of approval of FOLOTYN in the United States for the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory PTCL does not guarantee that we will obtain regulatory approval to market FOLOTYN in the United States for any additional indications or in any other countries. We have limited experience in filing and pursuing applications necessary to gain regulatory approvals, which may place us at risk of delays, overspending and human resources inefficiencies. FOLOTYN may not be approved for any additional indications even if it achieves its endpoints in clinical trials. Regulatory agencies, including the FDA, or their advisors, may disagree with our interpretations of data from preclinical studies and clinical trials. The FDA has substantial discretion in the approval process, and when or whether regulatory approval will be obtained for any drug we develop. Regulatory agencies also may approve a product candidate for fewer conditions than requested or may grant approval subject to the performance of post-approval studies or Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategies for a product candidate. In addition, regulatory agencies may not approve the labeling claims that are necessary or desirable for the successful commercialization of FOLOTYN. Following regulatory approval for any additional indication, FOLOTYN may later produce adverse events that limit or prevent its widespread use or that force us to withdraw FOLOTYN from the market for that indication or other indications. In addition, a marketed product continues to be subject to strict regulation after approval and may be required to undergo post-approval studies. For example, we are required to conduct two randomized Phase 3 trials to confirm FOLOTYN's clinical benefit in patients with T-cell lymphoma as well as two Phase 1 trials to assess whether FOLOTYN poses a serious risk of altered drug levels resulting from organ impairment. Any unforeseen problems with an 32 Table of Contents approved product, any failure to meet the post-approval study requirements or any violation of regulations could result in restrictions on the product, including its withdrawal from the market. Any delay in or failure to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals for FOLOTYN in the United States for any additional indication or in any other countries could harm our business and prevent us from ever generating significant revenues or achieving profitability. When we seek approval for FOLOTYN in other countries, we are subject to numerous complex regulatory requirements and if approval is denied or limited in another country, or if another country imposes post-marketing requirements, that decision could affect our ability to market FOLOTYN in other countries. We have filed an MAA with the EMA for FOLOTYN for the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory PTCL, using the centralized procedure. If major objections are raised during the review procedure, we may not receive marketing approval and would be unable to commercialize FOLOTYN in the European Union. In January 2012, the EMA CHMP issued an opinion recommending against conditional approval of FOLOTYN for the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory PTCL. In January 2012, we submitted a request to the EMA for re-examination of the CHMP opinion, and we expect a final opinion on the re-examination to be issued by the CHMP in the second quarter of 2012, although we can provide no assurance that the re-examination will be successful. Alternatively, the marketing authorization may be subject to conditions for approval or post authorization obligations. Such conditions or obligations may be costly and time consuming to fulfill and may affect our operations. For example, additional clinical data may be required to confirm the safety or efficacy profile of FOLOTYN in the target patient population. In addition, marketing authorizations are subject to periodic reviews, which, if negative, could affect Mundipharma's ability to commercialize FOLOTYN in the European Union, which would negatively impact our potential future royalties and receipt of milestone payments. Additionally, failure to comply with, or changes to, the regulatory requirements that are applicable to FOLOTYN outside the United States may result in a variety of consequences, including the following: •restrictions on FOLOTYN or our manufacturing processes; •warning letters; •withdrawal of FOLOTYN from the market; •voluntary or mandatory recall of FOLOTYN; •fines against us; •suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals for FOLOTYN; •suspension or termination of any of our ongoing clinical trials of FOLOTYN; •refusal to permit import or export of FOLOTYN; •refusal to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications that we submit; •denial of permission to file an application or supplement in a jurisdiction; •product seizure; •our strategic collaborator, Mundipharma, terminating our arrangement to co-develop FOLOTYN globally and commercialize FOLOTYN outside the United States and Canada, which would delay development and may increase the cost of developing and commercializing FOLOTYN; and •injunctions, consent decrees, or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties against us. 33 Table of Contents We may experience delays in our clinical trials that could adversely affect our financial position and our commercial prospects. We do not know when our current clinical trials will be completed, if at all. We also cannot accurately predict when other planned clinical trials will begin or be completed. Many factors affect patient enrollment, including the size of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the trial, competing clinical trials and new drugs approved for the conditions we are investigating. Other companies are conducting clinical trials and have announced plans for future trials that are seeking or likely to seek patients with the same diseases as those we are studying. Competition for patients in some cancer trials is particularly intense because of the limited number of leading specialist physicians and the geographic concentration of major clinical centers. As a result of the numerous factors that can affect the pace of progress of clinical trials, our trials may take longer to enroll patients than we anticipate, if they can be completed at all. Delays in patient enrollment in the trials may increase our costs and slow our product development and approval process. Our product development costs will also increase if we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than planned. If other companies' product candidates show favorable results, we may be required to conduct additional clinical trials to address changes in treatment regimens or for our products to be commercially competitive. Any delays in completing our clinical trials will delay our ability to obtain regulatory approval to market FOLOTYN in the United States for any additional indications or in any other countries, which may adversely affect our ability to generate significant revenues or achieve profitability. We may be required to suspend, repeat or terminate our clinical trials if they are not conducted in accordance with regulatory requirements, the results are negative or inconclusive or the trials are not well designed. Clinical trials must be conducted in accordance with Good Clinical Practices, or GCP, or other applicable foreign government guidelines and are subject to oversight by the FDA, foreign governmental agencies and Institutional Review Boards at the medical institutions where the clinical trials are conducted. In addition, clinical trials must be conducted with product candidates produced under cGMP and may require large numbers of test subjects. Clinical trials may be suspended by the FDA, foreign governmental agencies, or us for various reasons, including: •deficiencies in the conduct of the clinical trials, including failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or clinical protocols; •deficiencies in the clinical trial operations or trial sites; •the product candidate may have unforeseen adverse side effects; •the time required to determine whether the product candidate is effective may be longer than expected; •fatalities or other adverse events arising during a clinical trial due to medical problems that may not be related to clinical trial treatments; •the product candidate may appear to be less effective than current therapies; •the quality or stability of the product candidate may fall below acceptable standards; or •insufficient quantities of the product candidate to complete the trials. In addition, changes in regulatory requirements and guidance may occur and we may need to amend clinical trial protocols to reflect these changes. Amendments may require us to resubmit our clinical trial protocols to Institutional Review Boards for reexamination, which may impact the costs, timing or successful completion of a clinical trial. Due to these and other factors, FOLOTYN could take a significantly longer time to gain regulatory approval for any additional indications than we 34 Table of Contents expect or we may never gain approval for additional indications, which could adversely affect our ability to grow our revenue by delaying or preventing the commercialization of FOLOTYN for additional indications. Due to our reliance on contract research organizations and other third parties to conduct our clinical trials, we are unable to directly control the timing, conduct and expense of our clinical trials. We rely primarily on third parties to conduct our clinical trials. As a result, we have had and will continue to have less control over the conduct of our clinical trials, the timing and completion of the trials, the required reporting of adverse events and the management of data developed through the trial than would be the case if we were relying entirely upon our own staff. Communicating with outside parties can also be challenging, potentially leading to mistakes as well as difficulties in coordinating activities. Outside parties may have staffing difficulties, may undergo changes in priorities or may become financially distressed, any of which may adversely affect their willingness or ability to conduct our trials. We may experience unexpected cost increases that are beyond our control. Problems with the timeliness or quality of the work of a contract research organization may lead us to seek to terminate the relationship and use an alternative service provider. However, making this change may be costly and may delay our trials, and contractual restrictions may make such a change difficult or impossible. Additionally, it may be impossible to find a replacement organization that can conduct our trials in an acceptable manner and at an acceptable cost. We may need to raise additional capital to support our future operations. If we fail to obtain the capital necessary to fund our operations, we will be unable to successfully develop or commercialize FOLOTYN. Based upon the current status of our product development and commercialization plans, we believe that our cash, cash equivalents, and investments as of December 31, 2011, should be adequate to support our operations through at least early 2015, although there can be no assurance that this can, in fact, be accomplished. We anticipate continuing our current development programs and beginning other long-term development projects involving FOLOTYN, including the post-approval clinical studies required for FOLOTYN. These projects may require many years and substantial expenditures to complete and may ultimately be unsuccessful. In addition, we expect to incur significant costs relating to the commercialization of FOLOTYN, including costs related to our sales and marketing, medical affairs and manufacturing operations. Therefore, we may need to raise additional capital to support our future operations. Our actual capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: •the timing and amount of revenue generated from sales of FOLOTYN; •the timing and costs associated with our sales and marketing activities for promoting FOLOTYN; •the timing and costs associated with manufacturing clinical and commercial supplies of FOLOTYN; •the timing and costs associated with conducting preclinical and clinical development of FOLOTYN, including the post-approval clinical studies required by the FDA; •the timing and costs associated with our evaluation of, and decisions with respect to, the potential development of FOLOTYN for additional therapeutic indications; •the timing, costs and revenue associated with our strategic collaboration with Mundipharma for the co-development of FOLOTYN globally and commercialization outside the United States and Canada; and •our evaluation of, and decisions with respect to, potential in-licensing or product acquisition opportunities or other strategic alternatives. 35 Table of Contents We may seek to obtain this additional capital through equity or debt financings, arrangements with corporate partners, or from other sources. Such financings or arrangements, if successfully consummated, may be dilutive to our existing stockholders. However, there is no assurance that additional financing will be available when needed, or that, if available, we will obtain such financing on terms that are favorable to our stockholders or us. In the event that additional funds are obtained through arrangements with collaborative partners or other sources, such arrangements may require us to relinquish rights to some of our technologies, product candidates or products under development, which we might otherwise seek to develop or commercialize ourselves, on terms that are less favorable than might otherwise be available. If we are unable to significantly increase sales of FOLOTYN or cannot otherwise raise sufficient additional funds to support our operations, we may be required to reduce the scope of our commercial operations, or forego commercial opportunities, and our business and future prospects for profitability may be harmed. Budget constraints may force us to delay our efforts to develop FOLOTYN for additional indications while we complete the post-approval clinical studies required by the FDA, which may prevent us from commercializing FOLOTYN for all desired indications as quickly as possible. We regularly assess the allocation of our research and development budget because we have limited resources, and because research and development is an expensive process. In particular, our approval of FOLOTYN in patients with relapsed or refractory PTCL is conditioned upon us undertaking two additional Phase 3 studies and two additional Phase 1 studies which will result in significant additional expense. As a result of our limited resources, we may have to prioritize the development of FOLOTYN for additional indications and may not be able to fully realize the value of FOLOTYN for other indications in a timely manner, if at all. For example, in January 2011, we announced that we will not pursue Phase 3 studies for non-small cell lung cancer, or NSCLC, in order to prioritize our resources on the development and commercialization of FOLOTYN for the treatment of hematologic malignancies, and to manage our operating costs and expenses. In January 2011, we also implemented a strategic reduction of our workforce by approximately 13%, or 25 employees, to further reduce our operating costs and expenses. We do not have manufacturing facilities or capabilities and are dependent on third parties to fulfill our manufacturing needs and supply obligations, which could result in the delay of clinical trials, regulatory approvals, product introductions and commercial sales. We are dependent on third parties for the manufacture and storage of FOLOTYN for clinical trials and for commercial sale. If we are unable to contract for a sufficient supply of FOLOTYN on acceptable terms, or if we encounter delays or difficulties in the manufacturing process or our relationships with our manufacturers, we may not have sufficient product to conduct or complete our clinical trials or support commercial requirements for FOLOTYN. FOLOTYN is cytotoxic, which requires the manufacturers of FOLOTYN to have specialized equipment and safety systems to handle such a substance. In addition, the starting materials for FOLOTYN require custom preparations, which require us to manage an additional set of suppliers to obtain the needed supplies of FOLOTYN. We have arrangements with two third-party manufacturers to produce FOLOTYN bulk drug substance and two third-party manufacturers to produce FOLOTYN formulated drug product. We believe these third-party manufacturers have the capability to meet our projected worldwide clinical trial and commercial requirements for FOLOTYN although we cannot assure you of this. In particular, our third party manufacturers may not be able to fulfill our potential commercial needs or meet our deadlines, or the components they supply to us may not meet our specifications and quality policies and procedures. If we need to find additional alternative suppliers of FOLOTYN or its components, we may not be able to contract for those components on acceptable terms, if at all. Any such failure to supply or delay caused by such suppliers would have an adverse effect on our ability to continue clinical development of FOLOTYN or commercialize FOLOTYN. 36 Table of Contents Our current or future manufacturers may be unable to accurately and reliably manufacture commercial quantities of FOLOTYN at reasonable costs, on a timely basis and in compliance with the FDA's cGMP. If our current or future contract manufacturers fail in any of these respects, our ability to timely complete our clinical trials, obtain or maintain required regulatory approvals and successfully commercialize FOLOTYN may be materially and adversely affected. This risk may be heightened with respect to FOLOTYN as there are a limited number of manufacturers with the ability to handle cytotoxic products such as FOLOTYN. In addition, we currently have obligations to supply Mundipharma Medical Company, an affiliate of Mundipharma, with FOLOTYN pursuant to the Mundipharma Supply Agreement. If our current or future manufacturers fail to accurately and reliably manufacture commercial quantities of FOLOTYN, we could default on these supply obligations. Our reliance on contract manufacturers exposes us to additional risks, including: •our current and future manufacturers are subject to ongoing, periodic, unannounced inspections by the FDA and corresponding state and international regulatory authorities for compliance with strictly enforced cGMP regulations and similar state and foreign standards, and we do not have control over our contract manufacturers' compliance with these regulations and standards; •our manufacturers may not be able to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, which would prohibit them from manufacturing products for us; •our manufacturers might not be able to fulfill our commercial needs, which would require us to seek new manufacturing arrangements and may result in substantial delays in meeting market demands; •if we need to change to other commercial manufacturing contractors, the FDA and comparable foreign regulators must approve our use of any new manufacturer, which would require additional testing, regulatory filings and compliance inspections, and the new manufacturers would have to be educated in, or themselves develop substantially equivalent processes necessary for, the production of our products; and •we may not have intellectual property rights, or may have to share intellectual property rights, to any improvements in the manufacturing processes or new manufacturing processes for our products. Any of these factors could result in the delay of clinical trials, regulatory submissions, required approvals or commercialization of FOLOTYN. They could also entail higher costs and result in our being unable to effectively commercialize FOLOTYN. If we are unable to effectively protect our intellectual property, we will be unable to prevent third parties from using our technology, which would impair our competitiveness and ability to commercialize FOLOTYN. In addition, enforcing our proprietary rights may be expensive and result in increased losses. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain meaningful patent protection for FOLOTYN, both in the United States and in other countries. We rely on patents to protect a large part of our intellectual property and our competitive position. Any patents issued to or licensed by us could be challenged, invalidated, infringed, circumvented or held unenforceable, based on, among other things, obviousness, inequitable conduct, anticipation or enablement. In addition, it is possible that no patents will issue on any of our owned or licensed patent applications. It is possible that the claims in patents that have been issued or licensed to us or that may be issued or licensed to us in the future will not be sufficiently broad to protect our intellectual property or that the patents will not provide protection against competitive products or otherwise be commercially valuable. Failure to obtain and maintain adequate patent protection for our intellectual property would impair our ability to be commercially competitive. 37 Table of Contents Our commercial success will also depend in part on our ability to commercialize FOLOTYN without infringing patents or other proprietary rights of others or breaching the licenses granted to us. We may not be able to obtain a license to third-party technology that we may require to conduct our business or, if obtainable, we may not be able to license such technology at a reasonable cost. If we fail to obtain a license to any technology that we may require to commercialize FOLOTYN, or fail to obtain a license at a reasonable cost, we will be unable to commercialize FOLOTYN or to commercialize at a price that will allow us to become profitable. In addition to patent protection, we also rely upon trade secrets, proprietary know-how and technological advances that we seek to protect through confidentiality agreements with our collaborators, employees, advisors and consultants. Our employees and consultants are required to enter into confidentiality agreements with us. We also enter into non-disclosure agreements with our collaborators and vendors, which agreements are intended to protect our confidential information delivered to third parties for research and other purposes. However, these agreements could be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach, or our trade secrets and proprietary know-how could otherwise become known or be independently discovered by others. As with any pharmaceutical company, our patent and other proprietary rights are subject to uncertainty. Our patent rights related to FOLOTYN might conflict with current or future patents and other proprietary rights of others. For the same reasons, the products of others could infringe our patents or other proprietary rights. Litigation or patent interference proceedings, either of which could result in substantial costs to us, may be necessary to enforce any of our patents or other proprietary rights, or to determine the scope and validity or enforceability of other parties' proprietary rights. We may be dependent on third parties, including our licensors, for cooperation and information that may be required in connection with the defense and prosecution of our patents and other proprietary rights. The defense and prosecution of patent and intellectual property infringement claims are both costly and time consuming, even if the outcome is favorable to us. Any adverse outcome could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from third parties, or require us to cease selling our future products. We are not currently a party to any patent or other intellectual property infringement claims. Recent patent reform legislation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents. On September 16, 2011, the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, or the Leahy-Smith Act, was signed into law. The Leahy-Smith Act includes a number of significant changes to U.S. patent law. These include provisions that affect the way patent applications will be prosecuted and may also affect patent litigation. The United States Patent and Trademark Office is currently developing regulations and procedures to govern administration of the Leahy-Smith Act, and many of the substantive changes to patent law associated with the Leahy-Smith Act will not become effective until one year or 18 months after its enactment. Accordingly, it is not clear what, if any, impact the Leahy-Smith Act will have on the operation of our business. However, the Leahy-Smith Act and its implementation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We may explore strategic partnerships or collaborations that may never materialize or may fail. We may, in the future, periodically explore a variety of possible strategic partnerships or collaborations in an effort to gain access to additional product candidates or resources. For example, in May 2011, we entered into a strategic collaboration with Mundipharma for the co-development of FOLOTYN globally and commercialization outside the United States and Canada. At the current time, we cannot predict what form such additional strategic partnership or collaborations might take. We are 38 Table of Contents likely to face significant competition in seeking appropriate strategic partners, and these strategic partnerships or collaborations can be complicated and time consuming to negotiate and document. We may not be able to negotiate additional strategic partnerships or collaborations on acceptable terms, or at all. We are unable to predict when, if ever, we will enter into any additional strategic partnerships or collaborations because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with establishing strategic partnerships or collaborations. Health care reform measures could adversely affect our business. The business and financial condition of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are affected by the efforts of governmental and third-party payers to contain or reduce the costs of health care. The U.S. Congress recently enacted legislation to reform the health care system. While we anticipate that this legislation may, over time, increase the number of patients who have insurance coverage for pharmaceutical products, it also imposes cost containment measures that may adversely affect the amount of reimbursement for pharmaceutical products, including FOLOTYN. These measures include increased minimum rebates for products covered by Medicaid programs and extending such rebates to drugs dispensed to Medicaid beneficiaries enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations as well as expansion of the 340B Public Health Services drug discount program. In foreign jurisdictions there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of legislative and regulatory proposals aimed at changing the health care system. For example, in some countries other than the United States, pricing of prescription drugs is subject to government control and we expect to see continued efforts to reduce healthcare costs in international markets. Some states are also considering legislation that would control the prices of drugs, and state Medicaid programs are increasingly requesting manufacturers to pay supplemental rebates and requiring prior authorization by the state program for use of any drug for which supplemental rebates are not being paid. Managed care organizations continue to seek price discounts and, in some cases, to impose restrictions on the coverage of particular drugs. Government efforts to reduce Medicaid expenses may lead to increased use of managed care organizations by Medicaid programs. This may result in managed care organizations influencing prescription decisions for a larger segment of the population and a corresponding constraint on prices and reimbursement for drugs, including FOLOTYN. It is likely that federal and state legislatures and health agencies will continue to focus on additional health care reform in the future although we are unable to predict what additional legislation or regulation, if any, relating to the health care industry or third-party coverage and reimbursement may be enacted in the future or what effect such legislation or regulation would have on our business. The pendency or approval of such proposals or reforms could result in a decrease in our stock price or limit our ability to raise capital or to obtain strategic partnerships, collaborations or licenses. We may not obtain orphan drug exclusivity or we may not receive the full benefit of orphan drug exclusivity even if we obtain such exclusivity. The FDA has awarded orphan drug status to pralatrexate, which we market under the tradename FOLOTYN, for the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory PTCL. In addition, the FDA has awarded orphan drug designation to pralatrexate for the treatment of patients with follicular lymphoma and diffuse large B-cell lymphoma and advanced or metastatic TCC of the urinary bladder, for which we do not have approval. Under the Orphan Drug Act, the first company to receive FDA approval for pralatrexate for a designated orphan drug indication will obtain seven years of marketing exclusivity during which the FDA may not approve another company's application for pralatrexate for the same orphan indication. Because the FDA approved FOLOTYN for the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory PTCL, we have received seven years of marketing exclusivity for that indication. Orphan drug exclusivity does not prevent FDA approval of a different drug for the orphan indication or the 39 Table of Contents same drug for a different indication. In addition, the FDA may void orphan drug exclusivity under certain circumstances. If product liability lawsuits are successfully brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of FOLOTYN. The testing and marketing of pharmaceutical products entail an inherent risk of product liability. Product liability claims might be brought against us by consumers or health care providers or by pharmaceutical companies or others selling FOLOTYN or any future products. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against such claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit the commercialization of FOLOTYN. We have obtained limited product liability insurance coverage for our human clinical trials and commercial sales of FOLOTYN. However, product liability insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive, and we may be unable to maintain such insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to product liability. A successful product liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends on the retention of our President and Chief Executive Officer and other key personnel. We are highly dependent on our President and Chief Executive Officer, Paul L. Berns, other members of our management team and other key employees. We are named as the beneficiary on a term life insurance policy covering Mr. Berns in the amount of $10.0 million. We also depend on key employees and academic collaborators for each of our research and development programs. The loss of any members of our management team or other key employees or academic collaborators could delay the development and commercialization of FOLOTYN or result in the termination of our FOLOTYN development program in its entirety. Mr. Berns and others on our executive management team have employment agreements with us, but the agreements provide for "at-will" employment with no specified term. Our future success also will depend in large part on our continued ability to attract and retain other highly qualified scientific, technical and management personnel, as well as personnel with expertise in clinical testing, governmental regulation and commercialization of pharmaceutical products. We face competition for personnel from other companies, universities, public and private research institutions, government entities and other organizations. Additionally, in January 2011, we implemented a strategic reduction in workforce and we may have a more difficult time in attracting and retaining the employees we need as a result of a perceived risk of future workforce and expense reductions. If we are unsuccessful in our recruitment and retention efforts, our business will be harmed. We also rely on consultants, collaborators and advisors to assist us in formulating and conducting our research and development programs. All of our consultants, collaborators and advisors are employed by other employers or are self-employed and may have commitments to or consulting contracts with other entities that may limit their ability to contribute to our company. We cannot guarantee that we will be in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations. The development, manufacturing, pricing, marketing, sale and reimbursement of FOLOTYN, together with our general operations, are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and other authorities within the United States and numerous entities outside of the United States. We have fewer employees than many other companies that have one or more product candidates that are approved for marketing and we rely heavily on third parties to conduct many important functions. As a publicly-traded company, we are subject to significant regulations including the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act contains significant corporate governance and executive compensation-related provisions, some of which the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, has 40 Table of Contents recently implemented by adopting additional rules and regulations in areas such as the compensation of executives ("say-on-pay"). We cannot assure you that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations. If we fail to comply with the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Act and associated SEC rules, or any other regulations, we could be subject to a range of consequences, including restrictions on our ability to sell equity securities or otherwise raise capital funds, the de-listing of our common stock from The NASDAQ Global Market, or NASDAQ, suspension or termination of our clinical trials, failure to obtain approval to market FOLOTYN for additional indications, restrictions on future products or our manufacturing processes, significant fines, or other sanctions or litigation. Our efforts to comply with these requirements have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, an increase in expenses and a diversion of management's time from other business activities. We are also subject to the regulation under the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010 and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. The recently enacted U.K. Bribery Act of 2010 prohibits both domestic and international bribery, as well as bribery across both private and public sectors. In addition, an organization that "fails to prevent bribery" by anyone associated with the organization can be charged under the U.K. Bribery Act unless the organization can establish the defense of having implemented "adequate procedures" to prevent bribery. Practices in the local business community of many countries outside the United States have a level of government corruption that is greater than that found in the developed world. We may be required to implement policies to mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws and we plan to establish policies and procedures designed to monitor compliance with these anti-bribery law requirements. However we cannot assure you that our policies and procedures will protect us from potential reckless or criminal acts committed by individual employees or agents. If we are found to be liable for anti-bribery law violations we could suffer from criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Management's determination that there was a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse impact on the Company. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year, and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in our annual report on Form 10-K for that fiscal year. Section 404 also requires our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, and report on, management's assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting. In Item 9A of this report, management determined that there was a material weakness in our internal control over the evaluation of, and accounting for, complex multiple element arrangements and, as a result, our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of the end of the period covered by this report. Due to this material weakness, management also concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of the end of the period covered by this report. Consequently, and pending the Company's remediation of the matters that caused the control deficiencies underlying the material weaknesses, our business and results of operations could be harmed, we may be unable to report properly or timely the results of our operations, and investors may lose faith in the reliability of our financial statements. Accordingly, the price of our securities may be adversely and materially impacted. The design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and we cannot assure you that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, controls may become ineffective because of changes in 41 Table of Contents conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. We cannot assure you that we or our independent registered public accounting firm will not identify any additional material weaknesses in our internal controls in the future. Our reserves and estimates depend upon the accuracy and consistency of third party data as well as dependence upon key finance and accounting personnel to maintain and implement the surrounding controls. We have reserves and estimates that incorporate a significant amount of third party data from our wholesalers. To effectively maintain the reserves and estimates, we depend to a considerable degree upon the timely and accurate reporting to us of such data from these third parties and our key accounting and finance personnel to accurately interpolate such data into the reserves and estimates. If the third party data is not calculated on a consistent basis and reported to us on an accurate or timely basis or we lose any of our key accounting and finance personnel, the accuracy of our financial statements could be materially affected. This could cause future delays in our earnings announcements, regulatory filings with the SEC and delisting with NASDAQ. If we do not progress in our programs as anticipated, our stock price could decrease. For planning purposes, we estimate the timing of a variety of clinical, regulatory and other milestones, such as when a certain product candidate will enter clinical development, when a clinical trial will be initiated or completed, or when an application for regulatory approval will be filed. Some of our estimates are included in this report. Our estimates are based on information available to us as of the date of this report and a variety of assumptions. Many of the underlying assumptions are outside of our control. If milestones are not achieved when we estimated that they would be, investors could be disappointed and our stock price may decrease. Warburg Pincus Private Equity VIII, L.P. controls a substantial percentage of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. On March 2, 2005, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement with Warburg Pincus Private Equity VIII, L.P., or Warburg, and certain other investors in connection with an equity financing. In connection with this financing, Warburg and certain of its affiliates entered into a standstill agreement pursuant to which they agreed not to pursue, for so long as they continue to own a specified number of shares of our common stock, certain activities the purpose or effect of which may be to change or influence the control of our company. As of March 13, 2012, we had 106,958,412 shares of common stock outstanding, of which Warburg owned 26,124,430 shares, or approximately 24% of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. Although Warburg has entered into a standstill agreement with us, Warburg is, and will continue to be, able to exercise substantial influence over any actions requiring stockholder approval. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent an acquisition of us, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. In addition, these provisions may make it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors. Because our board of directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect 42 Table of Contents any attempt by our stockholders to replace current members of our management team. These provisions include: •authorizing the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares or change the balance of voting control and thwart a takeover attempt; •prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow for less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; •prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; •eliminating the ability of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders; and •establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an interested stockholder. This provision could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, whether or not it is desired by or beneficial to our stockholders. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the three-year moratorium imposed on business combinations by Section 203 will not apply to Warburg because, prior to the date on which Warburg became an interested stockholder, our board of directors approved the transactions that resulted in Warburg becoming an interested stockholder. However, in connection with Warburg's participation in an equity financing we completed in March 2005, Warburg and certain of its affiliates entered into a standstill agreement pursuant to which they agreed not to pursue, for so long as they continue to own a specified number of shares of our common stock, certain activities the purpose or effect of which may be to change or influence the control of our company. We have adopted a stockholder rights plan that may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that is beneficial to our stockholders. In May 2003, our board of directors adopted a stockholder rights plan that may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition of us that our stockholders may consider beneficial by diluting the ability of a potential acquirer to acquire us. Pursuant to the terms of the stockholder rights plan, when a person or group, except under certain circumstances, acquires 15% or more of our outstanding common stock or 10 business days after announcement of a tender or exchange offer for 15% or more of our outstanding common stock, the rights (except those rights held by the person or group who has acquired or announced an offer to acquire 15% or more of our outstanding common stock) would generally become exercisable for shares of our common stock at a discount. Because the potential acquirer's rights would not become exercisable for our shares of common stock at a discount, the potential acquirer would suffer substantial dilution and may lose its ability to acquire us. In addition, the existence of the plan itself may deter a potential acquirer from acquiring or making an offer to acquire us. As a result, either by operation of the plan or by its potential deterrent effect, mergers and acquisitions of our company that our stockholders may consider in their best interests may not occur. Because Warburg owns a substantial percentage of our outstanding common stock, we amended the stockholder rights plan in connection with Warburg's participation in an equity financing we completed in March 2005 to provide that Warburg and its affiliates will be exempt from the stockholder rights plan, unless Warburg and its affiliates become, without the prior consent of our board of directors, the beneficial owner of more than 44% of our common stock. 43 Table of Contents Unstable market conditions may have serious adverse consequences on our business. Market instability has made the business climate more volatile and more costly. Our general business strategy may be adversely affected by unpredictable and unstable market conditions. If the current equity and credit markets deteriorate further, or do not improve, it may make any necessary equity or debt financing more difficult, more costly, and more dilutive. While we believe we have adequate capital resources to meet our expected working capital and capital expenditure requirements through at least early 2015, a radical economic downturn or increase in our expenses could require additional financing on less than attractive rates or on terms that are excessively dilutive to existing stockholders. Failure to secure any necessary financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy, financial performance and stock price and could require us to delay or abandon clinical development plans. There is a risk that one or more of our current service providers, manufacturers or other partners may encounter difficulties during challenging economic times, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The market price for our common stock has been and may continue to be highly volatile, and an active trading market for our common stock may never exist. We cannot assure you that an active trading market for our common stock will exist at any time. Holders of our common stock may not be able to sell shares quickly or at the market price if trading in our common stock is not active. The trading price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: •the timing and amount of revenues generated from sales of FOLOTYN; •actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; •actual or anticipated regulatory approvals or non-approvals of FOLOTYN or of competing product candidates; •the loss of regulatory approval for FOLOTYN in patients with relapsed or refractory PTCL; •actual or anticipated results of our clinical trials involving FOLOTYN; •changes in laws or regulations applicable to FOLOTYN; •changes in the expected or actual timing of our development programs; •announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors; •changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; •conditions or trends in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries; •changes in the market valuations of similar companies; •announcements by us of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, collaborations, joint ventures or capital commitments; •additions or departures of key personnel; •disputes or other developments relating to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies; •developments concerning any of our research and development, manufacturing and marketing collaborations; •sales of large blocks of our common stock; 44 Table of Contents •sales of our common stock by our executive officers, directors and five percent stockholders; and •economic and other external factors, including disasters or crises. Public companies in general and companies included on NASDAQ in particular have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. There has been particular volatility in the market prices of securities of biotechnology and other life sciences companies, and the market prices of these companies have often fluctuated because of problems or successes in a given market segment or because investor interest has shifted to other segments. These broad market and industry factors may cause the market price of our common stock to decline, regardless of our operating performance. We have no control over this volatility and can only focus our efforts on our own operations, and even these may be affected due to the state of the capital markets. In the past, following large price declines in the public market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been initiated against that company, including in 2004 against us. Litigation of this type could result in substantial costs and diversion of management's attention and resources, which would hurt our business. Any adverse determination in litigation could also subject us to significant liabilities. Substantial sales of shares may impact the market price of our common stock. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock, the market price of our common stock may decline. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we consider appropriate. We are unable to predict the effect that sales may have on the then prevailing market price of our common stock. We have entered into a Registration Rights Agreement with Warburg pursuant to which Warburg is entitled to certain registration rights with respect to shares of our common stock. On July 20, 2009, we filed a Registration Statement on Form S-3 with the SEC providing for the registration for resale by Warburg of up to 26,124,430 shares of our common stock, which registration statement was declared effective on August 28, 2009. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS As previously reported, the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the Staff, as part of the Staff's review of issuers' periodic reports, is currently reviewing the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010 and the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2011, or the Staff Review. The Staff Review primarily relates to the Company's accounting treatment for the Mundipharma arrangement. The Company believes it has adequately addressed the Staff's comments in this report, in amendments to the Company's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for each of the quarterly periods ended June 30, 2011 and September 30, 2011, as filed on March 23, 2012, and in supplemental information provided by the Company to the Staff. However, the Staff has reserved the right to make further comments upon review of such filings. If the Staff does not agree with our assessment of the adequacy of these amendments and restatements, we may be required to amend this report and/or further amend the Company's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for each of the quarterly periods ended June 30, 2011 and September 30, 2011. 