ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Relating to Arbitron’s Businesses and the Industry in Which Arbitron Operates Arbitron’s business, financial position and operating results are dependent on the performance of its radio audience measurement business. Arbitron’s quantitative radio audience measurement service and related software sales represented approximately 86 percent of Arbitron’s total revenue for 2005. Arbitron expects that sales of its radio audience measurement service and related software will continue to represent a substantial portion of Arbitron’s revenue 21 Table of Contents for the foreseeable future. Any factors adversely affecting the pricing of, demand for or market acceptance of Arbitron’s radio audience measurement service and related software, such as competition, technological change or further consolidation in the radio industry, could adversely affect Arbitron’s business, financial position and operating results. Technological change may render Arbitron’s products and services obsolete. If Arbitron is unable to successfully adapt to changing technologies and customer demands, either through the development and marketing of new products and services, or through enhancements to its existing products and services, its business, financial position and results of operations would be adversely affected. Arbitron expects that the market for its products and services will be characterized by changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent new product and service announcements and enhancements, and changing customer demands. The introduction of new products and services embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards could render existing products and services obsolete and/or challenge current accepted levels of precision of data measurement. In addition, advertising-supported media may be challenged by new technologies that could have an effect on the advertising industry, Arbitron’s customers and Arbitron’s products and services. Arbitron’s continued success will depend on its ability to adapt to changing technologies and to improve the performance, features and reliability of its products and services in response to changing customer and industry demands. Arbitron may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful design, development, testing, introduction or marketing of its products and services. Arbitron’s new products and services, such as its proposed PPM service, or enhancements to its existing products and services, may not adequately meet the requirements of its current and prospective customers or achieve any degree of significant market acceptance. Arbitron’s inability to successfully adapt to changing technologies and customer demands, either through the development and marketing of new products and services, or through enhancements to its existing products and services, would adversely affect its business, financial position and results of operations. Consolidation in the radio broadcasting industry has led to Arbitron’s increasing dependence on key customers. The loss of a key customer would significantly reduce Arbitron’s revenue and operating results. The consolidation in the radio broadcasting industry has led to Arbitron’s increasing dependence on a limited number of key customers. The loss of a key customer would significantly reduce Arbitron’s revenue and operating results. In 2005, Clear Channel and CBS Radio represented approximately 19 percent and nine percent, respectively, of Arbitron’s revenue. On June 13, 2005, Clear Channel issued a Request for Proposals to create a “state-of-the-art” radio ratings system. On December 16, 2005, Clear Channel issued a press release in which it announced that Arbitron is one of the seven finalists in its Request for Proposals process. Clear Channel has targeted March 3, 2006, as the date for selection of a final measurement method, with a live test period planned to begin in the spring. Arbitron cannot give any assurances that it could replace the revenue that would be lost if a key customer failed to renew all or part of its agreements with Arbitron. The loss of a key customer would materially impact Arbitron’s business, financial position and operating results. Consolidation in the radio broadcasting industry may put pressure on the pricing of Arbitron’s radio audience measurement service and related software sales, thereby leading to decreased earnings growth. Consolidation in the radio broadcasting industry could put pressure on the pricing of Arbitron’s radio audience measurement service and related software sales, from which Arbitron derives a substantial portion of its total revenue. Arbitron prices its radio audience measurement service and related software applications on a per radio station, per service or per product basis, negotiating licenses and pricing with the owner of each radio station or group of radio stations. Consolidation in the radio broadcasting industry could have the effect that the greater the number of radio stations owned and the greater the number of services and applications purchased by a radio station owner, the more likely the owner is to seek price concessions from Arbitron. 22 Table of Contents While Arbitron has experienced some success in offsetting the revenue impact of any pricing pressure through effective negotiations and by providing radio audience measurement services and additional software applications and other services to additional stations within a radio group, there can be no assurance as to the degree to which Arbitron will be able to continue to do so, which could adversely affect its business, financial position and operating results. Arbitron’s agreements with its customers are not exclusive and contain no renewal obligations. The failure of Arbitron’s customers to renew all or part of their contracts could have an adverse effect on Arbitron’s business, financial position and operating results. Arbitron’s customers are not prohibited from entering into agreements with any other competing service provider, and once the term of the agreement (usually one to seven years) expires, there is no automatic renewal feature in the contract. Because the Arbitron Radio Market Report is delivered on a quarterly or semiannual basis, it is common for Arbitron’s customer contracts to expire before renewal negotiations are concluded. Therefore, there may be significant uncertainty as to whether a particular customer will renew all or part of its contract and, if so, the particular terms of such renewal. If a customer(s) owning stations in a significant number of markets does not renew its contracts, this would have an adverse effect on Arbitron’s business, financial position and operating results. Arbitron expects to invest in the continued development and commercialization of its PPM services, which may not be successfully developed or commercialized. The commercialization of these services will adversely affect Arbitron’s operating results, at least in the short term. Arbitron expects to continue to invest in the development and commercial deployment of its PPM, which is a technology that measures radio, broadcast television, cable television, Internet broadcasts, satellite radio and television audiences, and retail store video and audio broadcasts. Arbitron continues to believe that the PPM service represents a viable replacement for its diary-based ratings service in larger markets, offering customers considerable incremental value, and, therefore, its commercialization is an essential component of Arbitron’s future growth. While Arbitron has preserved its cash and short-term investments in anticipation of commercialization requirements for PPM, the continuing development and anticipated commercialization of the PPM services will require significant capital resources and a substantial financial investment over the next several years. Arbitron currently believes that the aggregate capital investment associated with PPM commercialization for audience ratings measurement could be in the range of $10.0 million to $25.0 million for the first two to three years of commercialization, with the higher range of investment by Arbitron anticipated in the event Nielsen Media Research does not join Arbitron in the commercialization of the PPM. In addition, over the same period, Arbitron anticipates that its results of operations will be negatively impacted as a result of the rollout of this PPM service, which impact likely will be material. Two significant factors will greatly affect the amount of capital required for deployment of the PPM and the impact of the rollout on the Company’s results of operations. First, since Arbitron’s primary customers are radio station owners, the speed with which the radio industry demands PPM technology will greatly affect the timing of the rollout. If the radio industry demands electronic measurement sooner rather than later, Arbitron’s capital needs will intensify, and the near-term negative impact on the Company’s results of operations will be more significant. Second, a significant variable in determining the ultimate costs to Arbitron in commercializing the PPM is whether Nielsen Media Research will join with Arbitron in the commercial deployment of the PPM. If Nielsen Media Research elects not to join Arbitron in commercializing the PPM, Arbitron intends to deploy a PPM service for audience measurement solely to the radio industry, at least initially. In such case, Arbitron expects that the financial results in the long-term would be similar to those for Arbitron under a PPM joint venture. However, this would require Arbitron to bear higher capital outlay and losses per market while building the PPM service, which would have a greater impact on Arbitron’s financial position and operating results in the early years of commercialization. Also, if the Company does not enter into a joint venture with 23 Table of Contents Nielsen Media Research, certain internal use PPM software would potentially become impaired which would require an impairment charge to the results of operations. There also can be no assurance that clients will support Arbitron’s conversion to a PPM-based audience measurement service, which may result in stations refusing to encode their broadcasts and clients not executing the new PPM service license agreements that will be required. If there is not widespread market acceptance of the PPM, Arbitron’s operating results would be materially adversely affected. The success of Arbitron’s commercialization of the PPM is dependent on contract manufacturers who produce the PPM equipment according to Arbitron’s proprietary design as well as those who manufacture parts and develop certain software applications. The failure of Arbitron to obtain, in a timely manner, sufficient quantities of quality equipment and the necessary software applications to meet Arbitron’s needs could adversely affect the commercial deployment of the PPM and therefore could adversely affect Arbitron’s operating results. Arbitron will need to purchase equipment used in the PPM service and to obtain certain software reporting applications to use with the PPM data. The equipment must be produced by the manufacturer in a timely manner, in the quantities needed and with the quality necessary to function appropriately in the market. Certain specialized parts used in the PPM equipment may impact the manufacturing and the timing of the delivery of the equipment to Arbitron. In addition, the new European Union regulations, known as the RoHS and WEEE directives, regarding the manufacturing of electronic equipment have required Arbitron to redesign some of its PPM components to remove lead content. The redesign process may impact the manufacturing and timing of the delivery of the equipment to Arbitron. The software applications will also need to be developed in a timely manner. The failure of Arbitron to obtain, in a timely manner, sufficient quantities of quality equipment and the necessary software applications to meet Arbitron’s needs could adversely affect the commercial deployment of the PPM and therefore could adversely affect Arbitron’s operating results. Arbitron’s inability to obtain Media Rating Council (“MRC”) accreditation of the PPM service, in a timely manner, could delay the commercialization of the PPM service, which could adversely affect Arbitron’s business. Arbitron expects to vigorously pursue the MRC accreditation for its PPM audience measurement service. However, accreditation may not be obtained prior to the anticipated commercialization of the PPM service. If a critical mass of Arbitron’s customers decide not to move forward before accreditation is formally granted, the commercialization of the PPM service could be delayed, which could adversely affect Arbitron’s business. The success of Arbitron’s radio audience measurement business depends on diarykeepers who record their listening habits in diaries and return these diaries to Arbitron. The failure of Arbitron to recruit participants and to collect these diaries could adversely affect Arbitron’s business. Arbitron uses listener diaries to gather radio listening data from sample households in the United States local markets for which it currently provides radio ratings. A representative sample of the population in each local market is randomly selected for each survey. This sample is recruited by telephone to keep a diary of their radio listening for one week. Participants are asked to designate in their diary the station(s) to which they are listening, when they are listening and where they are listening, such as home, car, work or other place. To encourage their participation in the survey, Arbitron gives diarykeepers a modest cash incentive. Arbitron processes more than 1.4 million diaries every year to produce its audience listening estimates. It is increasingly difficult and more costly to obtain consent from the phone sample to participate in the surveys, especially among younger demographic groups. Arbitron must achieve response rates sufficient to maintain confidence in its ratings, the support of the industry and accreditation by the Media Rating Council. The failure of Arbitron to successfully recruit participants and to convince diarykeepers to record their listening habits and mail in their diaries could adversely affect Arbitron’s radio audience measurement business. 24 Table of Contents Arbitron’s ability to recruit participants for its surveys could be adversely affected by governmental regulations. There is an increasing concern among the American public regarding privacy issues. Federal and state governmental regulations restrict telemarketing to individuals who request to be included on a do-not-call list. Currently these regulations do not apply to survey research. If the laws are extended to include survey research, Arbitron’s ability to recruit participants for its surveys could be adversely affected. Arbitron is evaluating alternatives to its current methodology, including using panels for its surveys and recontacting previous consenters. In addition, federal regulations ban calls made by auto-dialers to wireless lines where there is no consent from the party. Effective November 24, 2003, consumers were able to take their wireless number to their wireline carrier, and likewise, a wireline number may be taken to a wireless carrier. This makes it more difficult for Arbitron to identify wireless numbers in advance of placing an auto-dialed call and could adversely affect Arbitron’s business. Arbitron is using the services of a third party supplier that tracks wireless numbers to help identify wireless numbers in its telephone sample. It may become more difficult for Arbitron to reach and recruit participants for its audience measurement services, which could adversely affect Arbitron’s business, financial position and operating results. Arbitron’s success will depend on its ability to reach and recruit participants and to achieve response rates sufficient to maintain its radio audience measurement services. As consumers adopt modes of telecommunication other than telephone landlines, such as mobile phones and cable or Internet calling, it is becoming increasingly more difficult for Arbitron to reach and recruit participants. Recruiting mobile phone-only households to achieve response rates will demand increased costs, which could adversely affect Arbitron’s business, financial position and operating results. Arbitron’s success will depend on its ability to protect its intellectual property rights. Arbitron believes that the success of its business will depend, in part, on: • obtaining patent protection for its technology, products and services, in particular its PPM; • defending its patents once obtained; • preserving its trade secrets; • defending its copyrights for its data services and audience estimates; and • operating without infringing upon patents and proprietary rights held by third parties. Arbitron relies on a combination of contractual provisions, confidentiality procedures and patent, copyright, trademark, service mark and trade secret laws to protect the proprietary aspects of its technology, data and estimates. These legal measures afford only limited protection, and competitors may gain access to Arbitron’s intellectual property and proprietary information. Litigation may be necessary to enforce Arbitron’s intellectual property rights, to protect its trade secrets and to determine the validity and scope of Arbitron’s proprietary rights. In the past, Arbitron has been involved in litigation relating to the enforcement of its copyrights covering its radio listening estimates. Although Arbitron has generally been successful in these cases, there can be no assurance that the copyright laws and other statutory and contractual arrangements Arbitron currently depends upon will provide it sufficient protection to prevent the use or misappropriation of its audience estimates, databases and technology in the future. Any future litigation, regardless of outcome, could result in substantial expense and diversion of resources with no assurance of success and could adversely impact Arbitron’s business, financial position and operating results. One of Arbitron’s strategies is to expand its international business, which involves unique risks and, if unsuccessful, could impede the growth of Arbitron’s business. Arbitron continues to explore opportunities that would facilitate licensing its PPM technology into selected international markets in Europe and the Asia/ Pacific regions. Arbitron believes there is a demand for quality audience information internationally from global advertisers. 25 Table of Contents International business is subject to various additional risks, which could adversely affect Arbitron’s business, including: • costs of customizing services for foreign customers; • difficulties in managing international operations; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • longer sales and payment cycles; • the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws; • exposure to local economic conditions; • exposure to local political conditions, including the risks of an outbreak of war, the escalation of hostilities, acts of terrorism and seizure of assets by a foreign government; and • exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation. Audience estimates are used as the basis for advertising transactions when they achieve credibility and trust in the eyes of the media marketplace. In some countries, there is little confidence in the historical measurement services due to the perception of tampering and fraud. In expanding its international scope, Arbitron could be at risk of potential tampering and fraud, or the perception thereof, by broadcasters or other third parties with Arbitron’s methodology. In countries where there has not been a historical practice of using audience measurement information in the buying and selling of advertising time, it may be difficult for Arbitron to maintain subscribers as the market transitions to using Arbitron’s audience measurement service as the basis for conducting advertising transactions. Arbitron is dependent on its proprietary software systems for data collection, processing and reporting for current and future business requirements. Significant delays in the completion of these systems, cost overages and/or inadequate performance of the systems once completed could adversely affect Arbitron’s business, financial position and operating results. Arbitron’s success in collecting, processing and reporting data for its media information services is dependent on the ability of its proprietary software systems to support current and future business requirements. The current systems do not have the capability to accommodate all additional product enhancements requested by Arbitron clients. Arbitron is engaged in a major effort to replace its internal processing software and its client software. Significant delays in the completion of these systems, cost overages and/or inadequate performance of the systems once completed could adversely affect Arbitron’s business, financial position and operating results. The expansion of services into new areas could be adversely affected by the customer’s inability to organize sales efforts and utilize ratings in the advertising buy-sell process. The expansion of Arbitron’s services into new areas could be adversely affected by the inability of the new advertising media to organize sales efforts and effectuate advertising sales to more fully realize the benefits of the Arbitron services. Criticism of the Arbitron audience measurement service by various industry groups and market segments could adversely affect Arbitron’s business. Due to the high-profile nature of Arbitron’s services in the media and marketing information service industry, Arbitron could become the target of criticism by various industry groups and market segments. Although Arbitron strives to be fair, reasonable and impartial in the production of its audience measurement service, criticism of Arbitron by special interest groups could adversely affect Arbitron’s business. 26 Table of Contents Arbitron’s future growth and success will depend on its ability to successfully compete with companies that may have financial, marketing, distribution, technical and other advantages over Arbitron. Arbitron competes in the radio audience measurement business in some small markets with Eastlan Resources. In Mexico, Arbitron competes in the radio audience measurement business with INRA International Research Mexico. Arbitron is also aware of at least five companies, Telecontrol AG (a GfK AG company), Eurisko S.p.a. (a member of the international network NOP World), Navigauge, RSL Ipsos and AgB/ NMR International, that are developing technologies that compete with Arbitron’s PPM. Furthermore, certain companies are developing narrow applications of technology to measure niche audiences of radio and outdoor and out-of-home media. Arbitron competes with a large number of other providers of applications software, qualitative data and proprietary qualitative studies used by broadcasters, cable companies, advertising agencies, advertisers, and outdoor and out-of-home media companies. These competitors include STRATA Marketing Inc., Telmar Information Services Corp., Marketron Inc., Interactive Media Systems, Wicks Broadcast Solutions, LLC and Donovan in the area of applications software, and The Media Audit (a division of International Demographics, Inc.), Mediamark Research Inc. (a NOP World company, a wholly owned subsidiary of United Business Media plc) and Simmons Research Bureau in the area of qualitative data. Arbitron also competes with a number of companies in the Internet audience measurement industry, including Nielsen// NetRatings. On December 16, 2005, Clear Channel announced seven finalists for its Request for Proposals to create a state-of-the-art radio ratings system. The seven proposal finalists to be evaluated are, in alphabetical order, Arbitron, Integrated Media Measurement, MediaAudit/ Ipsos, Mediamark Research, Paladin Adsolutions, RadioStat and Simmons. Should a finalist other than Arbitron be selected to provide this system, Arbitron’s competition with respect to its radio audience measurement business would increase. Arbitron believes that its future growth and success will depend on its ability to successfully compete with other companies that provide similar services in the same markets, some of which may have financial, marketing, technical and other advantages, and its ability to design, develop and commercialize new products and services that address the industry needs for more efficient methods of data collection and processing and broader media measurement techniques. Arbitron cannot provide any assurance that it will be able to compete successfully, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on Arbitron’s business, financial position and operating results. The media research industry is exploring options to achieve greater influence over the providers of audience measurement. The media research industry is exploring options to achieve greater influence over and accountability from the providers of audience measurement. Two of the options could include forming an industry research consortium or a joint industry committee. A research consortium could potentially conduct independent research and development on ratings and audience measurement systems and make recommendations to the provider of audience measurement research. A joint industry committee could potentially result in the establishment of a cooperative media ratings service or an industry committee that would award contracts for media research. If these efforts to establish a research consortium or a joint industry committee are directed at radio, Arbitron’s business, financial position and operating results could be adversely affected. An economic downturn generally, and in the advertising and radio industries in particular, could adversely impact Arbitron’s revenue. Arbitron’s clients derive most of their revenue from the sale or purchase of advertising. During challenging economic times, advertisers may reduce advertising expenditures, impacting advertising agencies and media. A shift of advertising dollars from traditional media, such as radio, to nontraditional media, such as the Internet, could adversely impact the radio industry. As a result, advertising agencies and media may be 27 Table of Contents less likely to purchase Arbitron’s media information services, which could adversely affect Arbitron’s business, financial position and operating results. Advertisers are pursuing increased accountability from the media industry for their return on investments made in media. As a result, advertisers may shift advertising expenditures away from less accountable forms of media, such as radio, which could have an adverse effect on Arbitron’s business, financial position and operating results. Advertisers are pursuing increased accountability from the media industry for their return on investments made in media. Advertisers may shift advertising expenditures away from less accountable forms of media, such as radio, to more accountable forms of media, such as the Internet. As a result, advertising agencies and radio stations may be less likely to purchase Arbitron’s media information services, which could have an adverse effect on Arbitron’s business, financial position and operating results. Arbitron enters into agreements with third parties to use certain data and services in connection with the provision of its current services. In addition, Arbitron may need to enter into agreements with third parties to assist with the marketing, technical and financial aspects of expanding its services for other types of media. In the event Arbitron is unable to use such third party data and services or if Arbitron is unable to enter into agreements with third parties, when necessary, Arbitron’s business and/or its potential growth could be adversely affected. Arbitron relies on third parties to provide certain data and services for use in connection with the provision of its current services. In the event that such data and services are unavailable for Arbitron’s use, Arbitron’s business could be adversely affected. Further, in order for Arbitron to build on its experience in the radio audience measurement industry and expand into measurement for other types of media, Arbitron may need to enter into agreements with third parties. These third parties could provide the marketing, technical and financial aspects that Arbitron requires in order to be able to expand into other types of media. Arbitron’s inability to enter into these agreements with third parties, when necessary, could adversely affect Arbitron’s growth and business. Long-term disruptions in the mail, telecommunication infrastructure and/or air service could adversely affect Arbitron’s business. Arbitron’s business is dependent on the use of the mail, telecommunication infrastructure and air service. Long-term disruptions in one or more of these services, which could be caused by events such as natural disasters, the outbreak of war, the escalation of hostilities, and/or acts of terrorism (particularly involving cities in which Arbitron has offices, including Columbia, Maryland, which is in close proximity to Washington, DC, and government agencies) could adversely affect Arbitron’s business, financial position and operating results. Risk Factors Relating to Arbitron’s Indebtedness As of December 31, 2005, Arbitron had $50.0 million of indebtedness outstanding in senior secured notes that mature on January 31, 2008. The senior secured notes bear interest at a fixed rate of 9.96 percent per annum. These notes contain noninvestment-grade financial terms, covenants and operating restrictions that increase Arbitron’s cost of financing its business, restrict its financial flexibility and could adversely impact its ability to conduct its business. These include: • the grant of security interests in most of the assets of Arbitron and its subsidiaries; • the guarantees of Arbitron’s debt by Arbitron’s subsidiaries; • the requirement of Arbitron to maintain certain leverage and coverage ratios; and 28 Table of Contents • the ability of Arbitron to buy and sell assets, incur additional indebtedness, grant or incur liens on its assets, repay senior indebtedness, pay cash dividends over a certain amount, make certain investments or acquisitions, repurchase or redeem capital stock and engage in certain mergers or consolidations. These restrictions could hinder Arbitron’s ability to finance its future operations or capital needs or make acquisitions that otherwise may be important to the operation of Arbitron’s business. In addition, Arbitron’s ability to comply with these financial requirements and other restrictions may be affected by events beyond its control, and its inability to comply with them could result in a default under the senior secured notes. If a default occurs under the notes, either because Arbitron is unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service the debt or because Arbitron fails to comply with one or more of the restrictive covenants, the note holders could elect to declare that all of the outstanding borrowings, as well as accrued interest and fees, are due and payable and require Arbitron to apply all of its available cash to repay such notes. The lenders under Arbitron’s senior secured notes could also proceed against the pledged collateral, which includes a first-priority lien on substantially all of the assets of Arbitron and its domestic subsidiaries and a pledge of the capital stock of all of its domestic subsidiaries and of 65 percent of the capital stock of its foreign subsidiaries. In addition, a default may result in higher interest rates and the inability to obtain additional capital. The occurrence of any of these events would have a material adverse effect on Arbitron. Risk Factors Relating to Owning Arbitron’s Common Stock Changes in market conditions could adversely affect the market price of Arbitron’s common stock. As with other publicly traded securities, the market price of Arbitron’s common stock depends on various market conditions, which may change from time to time. Among the market conditions that may affect the market price of Arbitron’s common stock are the following: • the extent of institutional investor interest in Arbitron; • our financial condition and performance; • the market’s perception of our growth potential and potential future cash dividends; • general economic and financial market conditions generally and as they relate to Arbitron’s industry and its customers; • the outbreak of war, the escalation of hostilities, and/or acts of terrorism that could occur in cities in which Arbitron has offices, including Columbia, Maryland, which is in close proximity to Washington, DC, and government agencies; and • a change in government regulations regarding privacy. Sales of a substantial number of shares of Arbitron’s common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, also could adversely affect prevailing market prices for Arbitron’s common stock. In addition to the possibility that Arbitron may sell shares of its common stock in a public offering at any time, Arbitron also may issue shares of common stock in connection with grants of restricted stock or upon exercise of stock options that Arbitron grants to its officers and employees. All of these shares will be available for sale in the public markets from time to time. It may be difficult for a third party to acquire Arbitron, which could depress the stock price of Arbitron’s common stock. Delaware corporate law and Arbitron’s Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws contain provisions that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of Arbitron or the removal of existing management or directors and, as a result, could prevent our stockholders from being paid a premium for their common stock over the then-prevailing market price. These provisions 29 Table of Contents could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of Arbitron’s common stock. These provisions include: • a stockholders’ rights plan, which likely will limit, through November 21, 2012, the ability of a third party to acquire a substantial amount of Arbitron’s common stock without prior approval by the Board of Directors; • restriction from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder under Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law; • authorization to issue one or more classes of preferred stock, which can be created and issued by the Board of Directors without prior stockholder approval, with rights senior to common stockholders; • advance notice requirements for the submission by stockholders of nominations for election to the Board of Directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at a meeting; and • requiring a supermajority vote of 80 percent of the stockholders to exercise the stockholders’ right to amend the Bylaws. Arbitron’s Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation also contains the following provisions, which provisions could prevent transactions that are in the best interest of stockholders: • requiring a supermajority vote of two-thirds of the stockholders to approve some mergers and other business combinations; and • restriction from engaging in a “business combination” with a “controlling person” unless either a modified supermajority vote is received or the business combination will result in the termination of ownership of all shares of Arbitron’s common stock and the receipt of consideration equal to at least “fair market value.” ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 