Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. New or Amended Government Regulation Could Adversely Impact Our Business and Operations: We may be subject to additional laws or regulations by the Food and Drug Administration or other federal, state or foreign regulatory authorities, subject to the repeal of laws or regulations which we consider favorable, such as the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act of 1994, or subject to more stringent interpretations of current laws or regulations, from time to time in the future. We are unable to predict the nature of such future laws, regulations, interpretations or applications, nor can we predict what effect additional governmental regulations or administrative orders, when and if promulgated, would have on our business in the future. We also can not predict what effect these regulations, and the related 8 Table of Contents publicity from promulgation of such regulations, could have on consumer perceptions related to the nutraceutical market in which we operate. The Company, and its customers, depend on positive publicity as it relates to the efficacy and overall health benefits derived from certain products we manufacture for others. The Food and Drug Administration has also announced that it is considering promulgating new Good Manufacturing Practices regulations, specific to dietary supplements. Such regulations, if promulgated, may be significantly more rigorous than currently applicable regulations and contain quality assurance requirements similar to Good Manufacturing Practices regulations for drug products. Therefore, we may be required to expend additional capital resources on upgrading manufacturing processes and/or equipment in the future in order to comply with the law. The Food and Drug Administration or other governmental regulatory bodies could require the reformulation of certain products to meet new standards, the recall or discontinuance of certain products not able to be reformulated, imposition of additional record keeping requirements, expanded documentation of the properties of certain products and expanded or different labeling and scientific substantiation. Any or all of such requirements could have a materially adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our failure to comply with applicable Food and Drug Administration regulatory requirements could result in, among other things, injunctions, product withdrawals, recalls, product seizures, fines, and possible criminal prosecutions. Product Acceptance into the Generic Drug Market: Certain manufacturers of brand name drugs and/or their affiliates have introduced generic pharmaceutical products equivalent to their brand name drugs at relatively lower prices or partnered with generic companies to introduce generic products. Such actions have the effect of reducing the potential market share and profitability of generic products developed by the Company and may inhibit it from developing and introducing generic pharmaceutical products comparable to certain brand name drugs. This price competition has led to an increase in customer demand for downward price adjustments by the manufacturers of generic pharmaceutical products, including the Company, for certain products that may have planned to manufacture in the future. There can be no assurance that such price reductions for these products or others, will not continue, or even increase, and therefore could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenues, gross margins, income generated from operations and cash flows. The Unavailability of Raw Materials When Needed Could Adversely Impact Our Business and Operations: Since the federal drug application process requires specification of raw material suppliers as related to the production of generic drugs, if raw materials from a specified supplier were to become unavailable, FDA approval of a new supplier would be required. A delay of six months or more in the manufacture and marketing of the drug involved while a new supplier becomes qualified by the FDA and its manufacturing process is found to meet FDA standards could, depending on the particular product, have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Generally the Company attempts to minimize the effects of any such situation by providing for, where economically and otherwise feasible, two or more suppliers of raw materials for the drugs it manufactures. FDA Approvals: The Company plans to submit generic drug human and animal ANDAs for the FDAs approval to manufacture generic drugs for animals and humans in the future. The Company can not predict, nor guarantee, that the FDA will approve any or all applications submitted, nor can the Company predict when such applications will be reviewed or approved. Failure for the FDA to approve certain generic drug products as they are submitted by the Company could have an adverse effect on future revenues, cash flows and financial position. We Can Not Predict the Effects of Terrorism on the Economy or on our Company: The terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, exacerbated an already fragile economic situation and have added to a growing level of uncertainty and caution in the marketplace. The adverse impacts to our business may include, but are not limited to, a delay in placing or a decrease in the size of orders, a lengthening of sales cycles and increased credit risks. We can give no estimate of how long these effects may last. The occurrence of any future terrorist activity will further exacerbate these effects. The Unavailability of Additional Funds When Needed Could Adversely Impact Our Business and Operations: Management believes that cash expected to be generated from operations, current cash reserves, and existing financial arrangements will be sufficient for the Company to meet its capital expenditures and working capital needs for its operations as presently conducted. In addition, the Company may require more significant capital to expand operations or complete cash based acquisitions. If cash flows from operations, current cash reserves and available credit facilities are not sufficient, it will be necessary for the Company to seek additional financing. There can be no assurance that such financing would be available in amounts and on terms acceptable to the Company. The Company has implemented Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002: We have implemented the rules and regulations of the Securities Exchange Commission (the “SEC” or “Commission”) associated with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires a reporting company to, among other things, annually review and disclose its internal controls over financial reporting, and evaluate and disclose changes in its internal controls over financial reporting quarterly. Under Section 404 a reporting company is required to document and evaluate such internal controls in order to allow its management to report on, and its independent auditors to attest to, these controls. We are required to comply with Section 404 for our fiscal year ended March 31, 2008 so that our independent registered accountants can opine as of March 31, 2009 as to whether our internal controls are effective over financial reporting. We have performed the system and process documentation surrounding our controls and procedures, including those over our financial reporting. In the course of our ongoing internal control evaluation, we may identify additional areas of our internal controls requiring improvement, and will plan to design enhanced processes and controls to address issues that might be identified through this ongoing review. Following that review, we will be evaluating and testing the significant controls identified in order to comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404. As a result of the initial year of implementation ended March 31, 2008, we expect to incur additional expenses and diversion of management’s time in the future. We cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our documentation, evaluation, testing and possible remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations, and may not be able to ensure that the processes are effective or that the internal controls are or will be effective in a timely manner as prescribed by Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley. Any failure to implement effectively new or improved internal controls, or to resolve difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results, cause us to fail to meet reporting obligations or result in management being required to give a qualified assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting or our independent auditors providing an adverse opinion regarding management’s assessment. Any such result could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Our Insurance Coverage May not be Sufficient to Cover All Risk Exposure: The Company has maintained its insurance coverages for its directors and officers, general liability insurance, and product liability insurance at levels deemed adequate by the Company’s Board of Directors. The Company can not guarantee that these same levels of insurance, at premiums acceptable to the Company, will be available in the future. As related to product liability insurance, a reduction in coverage or an exclusion for one or more key raw materials, may adversely affect our ability to continue our business as currently conducted. In addition, a loss of one or more of any of these insurance policies, or a claim-related loss in excess of insured limits will adversely affect our ability to continue our business as currently conducted. Potential fluctuations in our quarterly financial results may make it difficult for investors to predict our future performance: Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors including but not limited to, our acquisition of BOSS effective October 16, 2007, the termination of the PBM contract on May 15, 2007, the level and timing of incurring research and development expenses, any delays in receiving any Food and Drug Administration’s approvals, and possible increases in generic drug competition, many of these and other conditions may be outside our control and may adversely effect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. In addition to any forward-looking statements issued by management, such factors above may create other risks affecting our long-term success. We believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our historical operating results may not be a good indication of our future performance, nor would our operating results for any particular quarter be indicative of our future operating results. Litigation: On September 29, 2006, Schering Corporation (“Schering”) filed an action in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey, against Belcher Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and GeoPharma, Inc. (along with nineteen other defendants) alleging that the filing of Belcher Pharmaceuticals’ Abbreviated New Drug Application (“ANDA”) for 5 mg Desloratadine Tablets, AB-rated to Clarinex ® , infringed U.S. Patent No. 6,100,274 (“the ‘274 patent”) Case No. 3:06-cv-04715-MLC-TJB. On November 8, 2006, Belcher filed a motion to dismiss in the New Jersey case for lack of jurisdiction. On October 5, 2006 Schering filed an action in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida, Tampa Division, Case No. 8:06-cv-01843-SCB-EAJ, against Belcher Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and GeoPharma, Inc. alleging that the filing of Belcher Pharmaceuticals’ ANDA for 5 mg Desloratadine Tablets, AB-rated to Clarinex ® , infringed the ‘274 patent. On February 14, 2008 Belcher and Schering entered into a stipulation to withdraw the motion to dismiss the New Jersey action and to consolidate the New Jersey and Florida actions. On February 20, 2008, Sepracor Inc. and University of Massachusetts (“Sepracor”) filed an action in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey, against Belcher Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and GeoPharma, Inc. alleging that the filing of Belcher Pharmaceuticals’ ANDA for 5 mg Desloratadine Tablets, AB-rated to to Clarinex®, infringed U.S. Patent No. 7,214,683 (“the ‘683 patent”) and U.S. Patent No. 7,214,684 (“the ‘684 patent”) Case No. 3:08-cv-00945-MLC-TJB. Company management and Belcher disputes Schering’s claims in the two actions and believes its proposed desloratadine product does not infringe any valid claim of the ‘274 patent. Company management and Belcher also disputes Sepracor’s claims and believes its proposed desloratadine product does not infringe any valid claim of the ‘683 patent or the ‘684 patent. The possible outcome cannot be determined at this time. Litigation concerning patents and proprietary rights is possible and often expensive. Pharmaceutical companies with patented brand products are increasingly suing companies that produce generic forms of their patented brand name products for alleged patent infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights, which may delay or prevent the entry of such generic products into the market. There is a risk that a branded pharmaceutical company may sue the filing person for alleged patent infringement or other manufacturing, developing and/or selling the same generic pharmaceutical products may similarly file lawsuits against the Company or its strategic partners claiming patent infringement or invalidity. Such litigation is time consuming, and could result in a substantial delay in, or prevent, the introduction and/or marketing of products, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. During September 2006, the Company, through its 51% owned subsidiary, American Antibiotics, LLC, filed in the Circuit Court for Anne Arundel County, 9 Table of Contents Maryland, Case No. C-06-117230, naming defendents Consolidated Pharmaceutical Group (“CPG”), the directors of CPG and two other individuals acting on behalf of CPG (collectively “the Defendents”). The litigation arises from and relates to agreements entered into between American Antibiotics and CPG for the purchase by American Antibiotics all of CPG’s rights, title and interest in various pharmaceutical Abbreviated New Drug Applications (“ANDAs”) and for the Baltimore Maryland facility lease (the “Lease”). The Suit brought by the Company alleges that the Defendents breached the ANDA agreement with certain misrepresentations and by failing to perform all the required improvements and modifications to the Baltimore, Maryland facility. Consolidated with American Antibiotic’s lawsuit is a separate action file against it by CPG, alleging that American Antibiotics has failed to pay rent that is due and owing under the Lease. Both cases have been stayed pending the outcome of settlement discussions, which are ongoing between the parties. On May 1, 2006 Esther Krausz and Sharei Yeshua (“Note Holders”) filed an action against Dynamic Health Products, Inc. in the Circuit Court of Broward County, Florida (Index No. 06-6187) alleging Dynamic Health Products, Inc. defaulted on note payment obligations. The face amount of the note alleged to be held by Ester Krausz totals $280,000.00, the face amount of the note alleged to be held by Sharei Yeshua totals $220,000.00. The notes contain an interest rate of 8% per annum. Preliminary discovery has been conducted. Dynamic Health Products, Inc. filed a third party action against the agent for the Note Holders seeking indemnity and that action was settled in May 2008. The Note Holders have filed a request for trial with the court but no date has been set. Dynamic Health Products, Inc. is investigating whether the purported agent made any payments to the Note Holders on behalf of Dynamic Health Products, Inc. without disclosing those payments. To date, Plaintiffs have not provided copies of the notes to Dynamic Health Products, Inc. or made a specific monetary demand. Dynamic Health Products, Inc. intends to vigorously defend itself in this action. 