ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to our Operations Our products and services face a great deal of competition that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive industry. In some instances, we compete against companies with fewer regulatory burdens, easier access to financing, greater resources and operating capabilities, more brand name recognition and long-standing relationships with regulatory authorities and customers. Our principal competitors are DBS providers and local telephone companies. DBS providers, principally DirecTV and DISH, are our most significant video competitors. They have a video offering that is, in some respects, similar to our video services, including DVR and some interactive capabilities and hold exclusive rights to programming such as the NFL that is not available to us and other video providers. We have lost a significant number of video subscribers to DBS providers in the past, and will continue to face significant challenges from them. Certain local telephone companies, including AT&T, Verizon and Qwest, are actively deploying fiber more extensively in their networks. In the case of AT&T and Verizon, these deployments enable them to offer video, HSD and phone service to consumers in bundled packages similar to those which we currently provide. DBS providers in some cases have marketing agreements under which local telephone companies sell DBS service bundled with their phone and HSD services. These synthetic bundles are generally billed as a single package, and from a consumer standpoint, appear similar to our triple play bundle. We also face competition from municipal entities that provide video, HSD and phone services. Some municipal entities are also exploring building wireless networks to deliver these services. Many companies have increased their offerings of video content streamed over the Internet, often accessed free of charge, which could negatively impact demand for our video services. Our HSD service faces competition from local telephone companies utilizing their upgraded fiber networks and/or DSL lines, Wi-Fi, Wi-Max and wireless broadband services provided by wireless service providers, broadband over power line providers, and from providers of traditional dial-up Internet access. The American Recovery Act of 2009 provides specific funding for broadband development as part of the economic stimulus package. It is likely that some of our existing and potential competitors will apply for funds under this program, which if successful may allow them to build or expand facilities faster, and deploy existing and new services sooner, and to more areas, than they otherwise would. Our phone service faces competition for voice customers from local telephone companies, wireless telephone service providers, VoIP service and others. Competition in phone service is intensifying as more consumers are replacing their wireline service with wireless service. Weakening economic conditions may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. During 2008, the downturn in the global financial markets, the tightening of credit markets and the collapse of several large financial institutions caused already weak economic conditions to worsen. Most of our revenues are provided by residential customers who may downgrade their services, or discontinue some, or all of their services, if these economic conditions persist, or further weaken. We may be unable to keep pace with rapid technological change that could adversely affect our business and our results of operations. We operate in a rapidly changing environment, and our success depends, in part, on our ability to enhance existing, or adopt new, technologies to maintain or improve our competitive positioning. It may be difficult to keep pace with future technological developments, and if we fail to choose technologies that provide products and services that are preferred by our customers and that are cost efficient to us, we may experience customer losses and our results of operations may be adversely affected. 23 Table of Contents The continuing increases in programming costs may have an adverse affect on our results of operations. Programming costs have historically been our largest single expense category and have increased dramatically over the last several years. The largest increases have come from sports programming and, more recently, from broadcast stations in the form of retransmission consent fees. We expect programming costs to continue to increase in the coming years largely as a result of both increased unit costs charged by the satellite delivered networks we carry, in addition to increasing financial demands by local broadcast stations to obtain their retransmission consent. If we refuse to meet the demands of these broadcast station owners, or are unable to negotiate reasonable contracts with non-broadcast networks, we may not be able to transmit these stations, which may result in the loss of existing or potential additional subscribers. Our video service profit margins have declined over the last several years, as the cost to secure cable programming and broadcast station retransmission consent outpaces video revenue growth. If we are unable to increase subscriber rates, or offer additional services to fully offset such programming costs, our video service margins will continue to deteriorate. We may be unable to secure necessary hardware, software, telecommunications and operational support that may impair our ability to provision and service our customers and adversely affect our business. Third party firms provide some of the inputs used in delivering our products and services, including digital set-top converter boxes, DVRs and VOD equipment; routers, provisioning and other software; the telecommunications network, interconnection agreements and e-mail platform for our HSD and phone services; fiber optic cable and construction services for expansion and upgrades of our cable systems; and our customer billing platform. Some of these companies may hold leverage over us, considering that they are the sole supplier of certain products and services, or that there is a long lead time and/or significant expense required to transition to another provider. As a result, our operation depends on the successful operation of these companies. Any delays or disruptions in the relationship as a result of contractual disagreements, operational or financial failures on the part of the suppliers, or other adverse events, could negatively affect our ability to effectively provision and service our customers. Demand for some of these items has increased with the general growth in demand for Internet and telecommunications services. We typically do not carry significant inventories of equipment. Moreover, if there are no suppliers that are able to provide set-top converter boxes that comply with evolving Internet and telecommunications standards, or that are compatible with other equipment and software that we use, this could negatively affect our ability to effectively provision and service our customers. We depend on network and information systems and other technologies. A disruption or failure in such systems and technologies could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because of the importance of network and information systems and other technologies to our business, any events affecting these systems and technologies could have a devastating impact on our business. These events include computer hacking, computer viruses, worms or other disruptive software, process breakdowns, denial of service attacks and other malicious activities or any combination of the foregoing, natural disasters, power outages and man-made disasters. Such occurrences may cause service disruptions, loss of customers and revenues and negative publicity, and may result in significant expenditures to repair or replace the damaged infrastructure, or protect from similar occurrences in the future. We may also be negatively affected by the illegal acquisition and dissemination of data and information, including customer, personnel, and vendor data, and this may require us to expend significant capital and other resources to remedy any such security breach. Our business depends on certain intellectual property rights and on not infringing on the intellectual property rights of others. We rely on our copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, as well as licenses and other agreements with our vendors and other parties, to use our technologies, conduct our operations and sell our products and services. Third parties have in the past, and may in the future, assert claims or initiate litigation related to exclusive patent, copyright, trademark, and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related standards that are relevant to us. These 24 Table of Contents assertions have increased over time as a result of our growth and the general increase in the pace of patent claims assertions, particularly in the United States. Because of the existence of a large number of patents in the networking field, the secrecy of some pending patents and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is not economically practical or even possible to determine in advance whether a product or any of its components infringes or will infringe on the patent rights of others. Asserted claims and/or initiated litigation can include claims against us or our manufacturers, suppliers, or customers, alleging infringement of their proprietary rights with respect to our existing or future products and/or services or components of those products and/or services. Regardless of the merit of these claims, they can be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel, or require us to develop a non-infringing technology or enter into license agreements. There can be no assurance that licenses will be available on acceptable terms and conditions, if at all, or that our indemnification by our suppliers will be adequate to cover our costs if a claim were brought directly against us or our customers. Furthermore, because of the potential for high court awards that are not necessarily predictable, it is not unusual to find even arguably unmeritorious claims settled for significant amounts. If any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us by any third party is successful, if we are required to indemnify a customer with respect to a claim against the customer, or if we fail to develop non-infringing technology or license the proprietary rights on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. Some of our cable systems operate in the Gulf Coast region, which historically has experienced severe hurricanes and tropical storms. Cable systems serving approximately 10% of our subscribers are located on or near the Gulf Coast in Alabama, Florida and Mississippi. In 2004 and 2005, three hurricanes impacted these cable systems to varying degrees causing property damage, service interruption and loss of customers. The Gulf Coast could experience severe hurricanes in the future. This could adversely impact our results of operations in affected areas, causing us to experience higher than normal levels of expense and capital expenditures, as well as the potential loss of customers and revenues. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success is substantially dependent upon the retention of, and the continued performance by, our key personnel, including Rocco B. Commisso, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Our debt arrangements provide that a default may result if Mr. Commisso ceases to be our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, or if he and his designees do not constitute a majority of the Executive Committee of each of Mediacom LLC and Mediacom Broadband LLC. We have not entered into a long-term employment agreement with Mr. Commisso. We do not currently maintain key man life insurance on Mr. Commisso or other key personnel. If any of our key personnel ceases to participate in our business and operations, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to our Financial Condition We are exposed to risks caused by disruptions in the capital and credit markets, which could have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on the capital markets for senior note offerings and on the credit markets for bank credit arrangements to meet our financial commitments and liquidity needs. Over the past several months, the U.S. economy entered a recession, with major downturns in financial markets and the collapse or significant weakening of many banks and other financial institutions. The capital and credit markets severely tightened, making it extremely difficult for many companies to obtain financing at all or on terms comparable to those available over the past several years. The disruptions in the capital and credit markets could adversely affect our ability to refinance on satisfactory terms, or at all, our scheduled debt maturities in the coming years and could adversely affect our ability to draw on our revolving credit facilities. As of December 31, 2008, after giving effect to the Exchange Agreement with an affiliate of Morris Communications, which was completed on February 13, 2009, approximately $284.0 million was available for borrowing 25 Table of Contents under the revolving credit facility maintained by the operating subsidiaries of Mediacom LLC (the “LLC Revolver”) and approximately $368.1 million could be borrowed under the revolving credit facility of the operating subsidiaries of Mediacom Broadband LLC (the “Broadband Revolver”). The LLC revolver expires on September 30, 2011, and the Broadband Revolver expires on December 31, 2012. Beyond 2012, we also face significant principal payments on outstanding senior notes of Mediacom LLC and Mediacom Broadband LLC, as well as term loans under the bank credit agreements of their respective operating subsidiaries. If the current economic conditions were to persist or worsen, we may not be able to replace the liquidity lost as each revolving credit facility expires, or refinance outstanding balances on maturing revolving credit facilities, term loans or senior notes at all or on acceptable terms. Even if we can secure refinancing, if prevailing credit market conditions persist or worsen, we would likely pay considerably higher interest rates on any refinancing or new financing than those we currently pay. We also could be negatively affected by the weakness or failure of some of the financial institutions we rely upon for liquidity. Some lenders may not be able to meet their funding obligations to us under the LLC and Broadband Revolvers if they experience shortages of capital or liquidity. If that were to happen, our other lenders would not be required to fund any shortfalls because their obligations to us are several, but not joint. If one or more lenders failed to fund, in aggregate, a significant share of any future borrowings under our revolving credit facilities, there could be a material adverse impact upon our financial condition and results of operations. We also may take measures to conserve cash and hold significantly higher cash balances than we have in the recent past until the financial markets stabilize. This may include the deferral of capital expenditures, which could adversely affect our ability to retain our existing customer base and attract new customers. We have substantial debt, we are highly leveraged and we have significant interest payment requirements, which could limit our operational flexibility and have an adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2008, our total debt was approximately $3.316 billion. Because of our substantial indebtedness, we are highly leveraged and will continue to be so. As a result, our debt service obligations require us to use a large portion of our revenues and cash flows to pay interest, reducing our ability to finance our operations, capital expenditures and other activities. Our cash interest expense for 2008 was $217.8 million. A portion of our debt, including outstanding debt under our revolving credit facilities, has a variable rate of interest determined by the Eurodollar rate plus a margin which varies depending on the ratio of senior indebtedness (as defined) under the credit facility to system cash flow (as defined). If we incurred additional debt under our revolving credit facilities, the Eurodollar rate were to rise and/or our system cash flow decreased, we would be required to pay additional interest expense, which would have an adverse affect on our results of operations. Our credit agreements and senior notes require compliance with certain financial and other covenants including, but not limited to, a ratio of senior indebtedness (as defined) to annualized system cash flow (as defined) of no more than 6.0 to 1.0. The credit agreements also require compliance with other covenants including, but not limited to, limitations on mergers and acquisitions, consolidations and sales of certain assets, liens, the incurrence of additional indebtedness, certain restricted payments and certain transactions with affiliates. Our senior notes contain financial and other covenants, though they are generally less restrictive than those found in our bank credit facilities. Principal covenants include a limitation on the incurrence of additional indebtedness based upon a maximum ratio of total indebtedness to cash flow, as defined in these debt agreements, of 7.0 to 1.0 in the case of Mediacom LLC’s senior notes, and 8.5 to 1.0 in the case of Mediacom Broadband LLC’s senior notes. These agreements also contain limitations on dividends, investments and distributions. Complying with these covenants may cause us to take actions that we otherwise would not take or cause us not to take actions that we otherwise would take. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flows to permit us to fulfill our financial covenants or revenues to fulfill our debt service and repay our debt. Our highly leveraged position exposes us to significant risk in the event of downturns in the economy or our business. 26 Table of Contents We are a holding company, and if our operating subsidiaries are unable to make funds available to us, we may not be able to fund their indebtedness and other obligations. We are a holding company, and do not have any operations or hold any assets other than our investments in, and our advances to, our direct, wholly-owned subsidiaries, Mediacom Broadband LLC and Mediacom LLC. The various operating subsidiaries of Mediacom Broadband LLC and Mediacom LLC conduct all of our consolidated operations and own substantially all of our consolidated assets. The only source of cash that they have to fund their obligations (including, without limitation, the payment of interest on, and the repayment of principal of, their outstanding indebtedness) is the cash that the operating subsidiaries generate from their operations and from borrowing under their subsidiary credit facilities. The operating subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to make funds available to Mediacom Broadband LLC or Mediacom LLC. The ability of our subsidiaries to make funds available to us in the form of dividends, loans, advances or other payments, will depend upon the operating results of such subsidiaries, applicable laws and contractual restrictions, including covenants under such subsidiaries’ credit facilities and the indentures governing our senior notes. In the event of a liquidation or reorganization of any of our subsidiaries, the creditors of any of such subsidiaries, including trade creditors, would be entitled to a claim on the assets of such subsidiaries prior to any claims of the stockholders of any such subsidiaries, and those creditors are likely to be paid in full before any distribution is made to such stockholders. To the extent that we, or any of our direct or indirect subsidiaries, is a creditor of another of our subsidiaries, the claims of such creditor could be subordinated to any security interest in the assets of such subsidiary and/or any indebtedness of such subsidiary senior to that held by such creditor. A default under our indentures or our credit facilities could result in an acceleration of our indebtedness and other material adverse effects. The agreements and instruments governing our subsidiaries’ indebtedness contain financial and operating covenants. The breach of any of these covenants could cause a default, which may result in the indebtedness becoming immediately due and payable. If this were to occur, we would be unable to adequately finance our operations. In addition, a default could result in a default or acceleration of our other indebtedness subject to cross-default provisions. If this occurs, we may not be able to pay our debts or borrow sufficient funds to refinance them. Even if new financing is available, it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us. The membership interests of our operating subsidiaries are pledged as collateral under our respective subsidiary credit facilities. A default under one of our subsidiary credit facilities could result in a foreclosure by the lenders on the membership interests pledged under that facility. Because we are dependent upon our operating subsidiaries for all of our cash flows, a foreclosure would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A lowering of the ratings assigned to our debt securities by ratings agencies may further increase our future borrowing costs and reduce our access to capital. Our debt ratings are below the investment grade category, which results in higher borrowing costs. There can be no assurance that our debt ratings will not be lowered in the future by a rating agency. While there are no restrictions or covenants tied to our debt ratings under our current arrangements, a lowering in our debt ratings may further increase our future borrowing costs as well as reduce our access to capital. We have a history of net losses and we may continue to generate net losses in the future. We have a history of net losses, and may continue to report net losses in the future. We reported net losses of $77.5 million, $95.1 million and $124.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. In general, our net losses principally result from depreciation and amortization expenses associated with our acquisitions and the capital expenditures related to expanding and upgrading our cable systems, interest expense and other financing charges related to our indebtedness, and losses on derivatives. Should our net losses continue, they may limit our ability to attract needed financing, and to do so on favorable terms, because such losses may detract some investors from investing in our securities. 27 Table of Contents Changes to our valuation account for deferred tax assets can cause our net income or net loss to fluctuate significantly. As of December 31, 2008, we had pre-tax net operating loss carryforwards for federal purposes of approximately $2.3 billion; if not utilized, they will expire in the years 2021 through 2028. Mostly due to these net operating loss carryforwards, as of December 31, 2008, we had deferred tax assets of $968.3 million. These assets have been reduced by a valuation allowance of $677.4 million to reflect our assessment of the likelihood of their recovery in future periods. We periodically assess the likelihood of realization of our deferred tax assets, considering all available evidence, both positive and negative, including our most recent performance, the scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities, our forecast of taxable income in future periods and the availability of prudent tax planning strategies. As a result of these assessments, in prior years we have established valuation allowances on a portion of our deferred tax assets due to the uncertainty surrounding the realization of these assets. We expect to add to our valuation allowance for any increase in the deferred tax liabilities relating to indefinite-lived intangible assets. We will also adjust our valuation allowance if we assess that there is sufficient change in our ability to recover our deferred tax assets. Our income tax expense in future periods will be reduced or increased to the extent of offsetting decreases or increases, respectively, in our valuation allowance. These changes could have a significant impact on our future earnings. Impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets could cause significant losses. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $2.0 billion of unamortized intangible assets, including goodwill of $220.7 million and franchise rights of $1.8 billion on our consolidated balance sheets. These intangible assets represented approximately 54% of our total assets. FASB Statement No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” requires that goodwill and other intangible assets deemed to have indefinite useful lives, such as cable franchise rights, cease to be amortized. SFAS No. 142 requires that goodwill and certain intangible assets be tested at least annually for impairment. If we find that the carrying value of goodwill or cable franchise rights exceeds its fair value, we will reduce the carrying value of the goodwill or intangible asset to the fair value, and will recognize an impairment loss in our results of operations. The impairment tests require us to make an estimate of the fair value of intangible assets, which is determined using a discounted cash flow methodology. Since a number of factors may influence determinations of fair value of intangible assets, we are unable to predict whether impairments of goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangibles will occur in the future. Any such impairment would result in our recognizing a corresponding write-off, which could cause us to report a significant noncash operating loss. Such impairment could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our annual impairment analysis was performed as of October 1, 2008 and resulted in no impairment. Given the continuing economic downturn and overall market conditions, we may be required to conduct an impairment analysis prior to our anniversary date, and such analysis may result in an impairment of the fair value of our intangible assets. Risks Related to Legislative and Regulatory Matters Changes in cable regulations could adversely impact our business. The cable industry is subject to extensive legislation and regulation at the federal and local levels, and, in some instances, at the state level. Many aspects of such regulation are currently the subject of judicial and administrative proceedings and legislative and administrative proposals, and lobbying efforts by us and our competitors. We expect that court actions and regulatory proceedings will continue to refine our rights and obligations under applicable federal, state and local laws. The results of current or future judicial and administrative proceedings and legislative activities cannot be predicted. Modifications to existing requirements or imposition of new requirements or limitations could have an adverse impact on our business including those described below. See “Business — Legislation and Regulation.” 28 Table of Contents Additional regulation of rates charged for our services could impair future revenues. Expansion of rate regulation beyond that currently imposed on certain of our cable services or on any other services we offer could restrict our ability to generate future revenues and thus adversely affect our business. See “Business — Legislation and Regulation — Federal Regulation — Subscriber Rates and Program Tiering.” Denials of franchise renewals or continued absence of franchise parity can adversely impact our business. Where State-Issued Franchises are not available, local franchising authorities may demand concessions, or other commitments, as a condition to renewal, and these concessions or other commitments could be costly. Although the Cable Act affords certain protections, there is no assurance that we will not be compelled to meet their demands in order to obtain renewals. Our cable systems are operated under non-exclusive franchises. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 12.3% of the estimated homes passed by our cable systems were served by other cable operators. Because of the FCC’s actions to speed issuance of local competitive franchises and because many states in which we operate cable systems have adopted and other states may adopt legislation to allow others, including local telephone companies, to deliver services in competition with our cable service without obtaining equivalent local franchises, we may face not only increasing competition but we may be at a competitive disadvantage due to lack of regulatory parity. Any of these factors could adversely affect our business. See “Business — Legislation and Regulation — Federal Regulation — Franchise Matters.” Changes in carriage requirements could impose additional cost burdens on us. Any change that increases the amount of content that we must carry on our cable systems can adversely impact our business by increasing our cost and limiting our ability to carry other programming more valued by our subscribers or limit our ability to provide other services. For example, if we are required to carry more than the primary stream of digital broadcast signals or the signals of “Class A” low power broadcast stations or if the FCC regulations are put into effect that require us to provide either very low cost or no cost commercial leased access, our business would be adversely affected. See “Business — Legislation and Regulation — Federal Regulation — Content Regulations.” Pending FCC and court proceedings could adversely affect our HSD service. The regulatory status of providing HSD service by cable companies remains uncertain. If the FCC imposes additional regulatory burdens or further restricts the methods we may employ to manage the operation of our network, our costs would increase and our business would be adversely affected. See “Business — Legislation and Regulation — Federal Regulation — HSD Service.” Our phone service may become subject to additional regulation. The regulatory treatment of VoIP services like those we and others offer remains uncertain. The FCC, Congress, the courts and the states continue to look at issues surrounding the provision of VoIP, including whether this service is properly classified as a telecommunications service or an information service. Any changes to existing law as it applies to VoIP or any determination that results in greater or different regulatory obligations than competing services would result in increased costs, reduce anticipated revenues and impede our ability to effectively compete or otherwise adversely affect our ability to successfully roll-out and conduct our telephony business. See “Business — Legislation and Regulation — Federal Regulation — Voice-over-Internet-Protocol Telephony.” Changes in pole attachment regulations or actions by pole owners could significantly increased our pole attachment costs. Our cable facilities are often attached to or use public utility poles, ducts or conduits. Significant change to the FCC’s long-standing pole attachment “cable rate” formula, increases in pole attachment costs as a result of our provision of Internet, VoIP or other services or pole owners seeking additional compensation because poles are “full” could increase our pole attachment costs. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could 29 Table of Contents suffer a material adverse impact from any significant increased costs, and such increased pole attachment costs could discourage system upgrades and the introduction of new products and services. See “Business — Legislation and Regulation — Federal Regulation — Pole Attachment Regulation.” Changes in compulsory copyright regulations could significantly increase our license fees. The Copyright Office’s decision regarding payment of copyright fees on “phantom signals” may cause us to carry fewer “distant” signals in our channel lineups which could preclude carriage of programming valued by our customers. If the Copyright Office determines that we are required to treat each digital programming stream as a separate signal for copyright purposes or if other legislative proposals are enacted that change the compulsory license, our copyright costs could increase significantly or we may reduce the amount of off-air content that we provide to our subscribers. If Congress were to completely eliminate the compulsory license, and we are required to obtain copyright licensing of all broadcast material at the source, that would impose significant administrative burdens and additional costs that could adversely affect our business. See “Business — Legislation and Regulation — Federal Regulation — Copyright.” Risks Related to our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer’s Controlling Position Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer has the ability to control all major corporate decisions, and a sale of his stock could result in a change of control that would have unpredictable effects. Rocco B. Commisso, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owned shares of our common stock representing approximately 80.8% of the aggregate voting power as of December 31, 2008. After completion of the Exchange Agreement on February 13, 2009, Mr. Commisso had aggregate voting power of approximately 87.8%. As a result, Mr. Commisso generally has the ability to control the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of our entire board of directors, the approval of any merger or consolidation and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, Mr. Commisso’s voting power may have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire us because any such acquisition would require his consent. Pursuant to a Significant Stockholder Agreement, dated September 7, 2008, Mr. Commisso has agreed not to consummate prior to September 7, 2010 an extraordinary transaction involving us without the recommendation of a majority of either (i) the disinterested directors that are members of our board of directors or (ii) the members of a special committee of our board consisting of disinterested directors. We cannot assure you that Mr. Commisso will maintain all or any portion of his ownership, or that he would continue as an officer or director if he sold a significant part of his stock. The disposition by Mr. Commisso of a sufficient number of shares could result in a change in control of our company, and no assurance can be given that a change of control would not adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. A change in control could also result in a default under our debt arrangements, could require us to offer to repurchase our senior notes at 101% of their principal amount, could trigger a variety of federal, state and local regulatory consent requirements and potentially limit our utilization of net operating losses for income tax purposes. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 