D. Risk Factors Declines in economic conditions in the Company’s major markets, including private-sector capital expenditures, construction investment, and domestic public investment, may adversely impact the results of operations of the Company. Industrial and capital goods make up a substantial portion of the Company’s products. Accordingly, the Company may see reduced demand resulting from declines in general economic conditions, including private-sector capital expenditures, construction investment, and domestic public investment. In addition, the agricultural policies by the national government may adversely affect domestic sales of agriculture-related products. In overseas markets, especially those of North America and Europe, sales of the Company’s products, such as utility/compact tractors, may decrease due to declines in general economic conditions, including private consumption and residential construction investment in those regions. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, in particular a stronger yen, may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company has overseas revenues and foreign subsidiaries which significantly contribute to the Company’s results of operations. Since the transactions between the parent company and foreign subsidiaries or customers are generally denominated in the local currencies and also the foreign subsidiaries’ financial results of operations which are prepared in the local currencies are consolidated into the Company’s consolidated results of operations after translation into Japanese yen, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, in particular a stronger yen against other currencies, may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. In order to minimize adverse effects from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, the Company has been transferring its production bases to those countries and regions where its products are actually sold. Also, the Company enters into foreign exchange forward contracts, foreign currency option contracts, cross-currency swap contracts, and cross-currency interest rate swap contracts to mitigate its exposure to these risks. Despite the Company’s efforts, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect the Company’s consolidated financial results. If the prices of raw materials increase or the Company has difficulties in procuring adequate supplies of them, there may be a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. The Company purchases substantial raw materials and parts from outside suppliers. If the prices of raw materials substantially increase due to the supply and demand gap and changes in market conditions and stay at high levels for a long time, they may impair the Company’s profitability. Also, if the Company has difficulties in procuring adequate supplies of raw materials, there may be a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations due to difficulties in production and sales activities. 3 Table of Contents The risks associated with international operations may adversely affect the revenues and profitability of the Company. In some businesses of the Company, substantial overseas operations are conducted. Accordingly, the Company is subject to a number of risks inherent in doing business in those markets. If such risks occurred, the Company may face difficulties in stable production and sales of products in overseas markets that may affect the revenues and profitability of the Company or they may hinder growth of the Company in specific countries. The following risks are serious concerns for the Company: • Unexpected changes in international or an individual country’s tax regulations; • Unexpected legal or regulatory changes in a country; • Unexpected results of transfer pricing issues or negotiation for Advanced Pricing Agreement; • Difficulties in retaining qualified personnel; • Underqualified technological skills or instability between management and employee unions in developing countries; and • Political instability in those countries. Among North America, Europe, and Asian countries, which are important markets for the Company, the above mentioned risks seem to be higher in Asian countries than in other regions. If strategic alliances, mergers, and acquisitions do not generate successful results as planned, then the Company’s profitability may deteriorate. The Company expects to use strategic alliances, mergers, and acquisitions to seek further growth. The success of these activities depends on such factors as the Company’s business environment, the abilities of its business counterparts, and whether the Company and its counterparts share common goals. Therefore, if these activities are not successful and returns on related investments are lower than expected, the Company’s profitability may deteriorate. Stock market fluctuations may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial position. Stock market declines may cause impairment losses on the Company’s investments in marketable securities or cause an increase in actuarial loss of the Company’s retirement and pension plans as a result of a decline in the fair value of pension plan assets, which may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial position. The Company is subject to intensifying competitive pressures. Unless the Company performs better than other companies in each of its businesses, revenues and/or net income may decrease in the future. The Company is exposed to severe competition in each of its businesses. Unless the Company performs better than other companies in such areas as terms of trade conditions, the research and development (“R&D”), and quality of goods or services, revenues and/or net income may decrease in the future. If the Company’s products and services are alleged to have serious defects, such allegations may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial position. If the Company’s products and services are alleged to have serious defects, the Company may have liability for significant damages, and there may be a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial position. If such claims are asserted, the Company may lose the confidence of the public and suffer a reduction in its brand value, which may result in decreased revenues or demand for its products. The Company may be required to incur considerable expenses in order to comply with various environmental laws and regulations. Such expenses may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial position. The Company is subject to various environmental laws and regulations that apply to its products and activities. If these environmental laws and regulations, such as those that impose carbon dioxide emission controls, other emission controls, and usage restrictions for certain materials which are used in the Company’s products, are strengthened or newly established in jurisdictions in which the Company conducts its businesses, the Company may be required to incur considerable expenses in order to comply with such laws and regulations. Such expenses may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial position. To the extent that the Company determines that it is not economical to continue to comply with such laws and regulations, the Company may have to curtail or discontinue its activities in the affected business areas. 4 Table of Contents The Company may be required to incur significant expenses in connection with environmental damage that its activities may allegedly cause. Such expenses may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial position. Claims may arise that the Company’s activities have caused environmental contamination, including the release of hazardous materials, air pollution, water pollution, and/or soil contamination. In such an event, the Company may elect or be required to implement costly corrective actions to resolve any issues associated with the release or presence of such hazardous materials or contamination and may face associated litigation. These factors may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial position. If the Company is required to incur significant expenses relevant to asbestos-related issues, then there may be a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial position and liquidity. The Company previously manufactured products containing asbestos from 1954 to 2001. If the Company is required to incur additional expenses, including payments to the individuals concerned or expenses arising from litigations related to the asbestos-related health hazards and such expenses become significant, they may result in a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial position and liquidity. The Company may experience a material effect on its results of operations and financial position if it faces issues related to compliance. The Company has declared its intention to conduct its corporate activities in compliance with legal regulations and ethical principles, and to exert efforts to cause all management and staff of the group companies not to act in violation of various legal regulations, ethical standards, or internal regulations. However, in the event that compliance issues arise, there is a possibility that the Company may be subject to disciplinary action by government ministries supervising its activities or to lawsuits, or may suffer a loss of public confidence, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial position. If the Company is damaged by natural disasters or other unpredictable events, it may have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial position. The Company operates and maintains production, R&D, sales, and other business facilities in Japan, North America, Europe, Asia and other regions. If natural disasters or other unpredictable events, such as earthquakes, tsunamis, floods, typhoons, pandemic, wars, terrorist attacks, fires, information system or communication network breakdown or improper operation occur in countries and regions in which the Company operates, the Company’s production, distribution, and sales activities may be disrupted, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial position. In particular, Japan is a country with frequent earthquakes, and as a result, the Company has a reasonable probability of suffering from a strong earthquake or tsunami. 5 Table of Contents The risks related to the aftermath of the Great East Japan Earthquake may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial position. Although the Company incurred damage at several plants and sales facilities located in east Japan from the Great East Japan Earthquake, the damaged sites were remediated and resumed business activities. However, the aftermath of the Great East Japan Earthquake has had and continues to have a serious negative impact on the Japanese economy. Specifically, continuous leakage of radiation from the nuclear power plants in Fukushima Prefecture, harmful rumors regarding agricultural products grown in the areas affected by the leakage, and shortages in the electricity supply due to shutdown of all nuclear power plants in Japan may have adverse effects on the Company’s production and sales activities. Security breaches and other disruptions to the Company’s IT system and networks may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial position. The Company faces certain security threats, including threats to the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data and systems. If the Company’s IT system and networks are disrupted or experience a security breach, the Company may suffer from an opportunity loss due to production downtime or may be subject to litigation or threat of litigation for information leakage, which in turn may cause a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial position. If such security breaches and other disruptions occur, the Company may lose the confidence of the public and suffer a reduction in its brand value, which may cause a decline in demand for our products and result in decreased revenues. 6 Table of Contents 