Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information in this report, including the important information in “Forward-Looking Statements,” you should carefully consider the following information in evaluating our business and our prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently deem to be material and that we believe are specific to our company and our industry. In addition to these risks, our business may be subject to risks currently unknown to us. If any of these or other risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows may be adversely affected, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment in Websense. Our future success depends on our ability to sell new, renewal and upgraded subscriptions to our security products. We expect that a majority of our billings for 2012 will be derived from our TRITON content security solutions, including the TRITON security gateways, our data loss prevention products, SaaS offerings sold with or without appliances and related appliances. We also expect the percentage of our billings derived from our Web filtering products will decline in 2012 as many of our customers transition to our TRITON products or lower-priced products sold by our competitors. Our billings and revenue growth are dependent on sales of security products to new customers and to customers who upgrade products upon renewal, which must also offset declines in sales from the renewals of Web filtering subscriptions. We also depend upon enterprise customers for a substantial portion of our sales. If we cannot sufficiently increase our customer base with the addition of new customers and upgrade subscriptions for additional product offerings from existing customers or renew a sufficient number of customers, we will not be able to grow our business to meet expectations. Subscriptions to our software and SaaS products generally have durations of 12, 24 or 36 months. Our billings and revenues depend upon maintaining a high rate of sales of renewal subscriptions and adding additional product offerings to existing customers as well as new customer sales. Our customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions upon expiration, and if they renew, they may elect to renew for a shorter duration than the previous subscription period. As a result of macroeconomic conditions, our customers may 14 2011 ANNUAL REPORT Table of Contents elect to renew subscriptions for shorter durations and may reduce their subscribed products due to contractions of work forces of their respective organizations. This may require increasingly costly sales efforts targeting senior management and other management personnel associated with our customers’ Internet and security infrastructure. We may not be able to maintain or continue to generate increasing revenues from existing customers. Volatility in the global economy and macroeconomic conditions may adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. The global economy has experienced a period of unprecedented volatility characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from governments and regulatory agencies worldwide. We believe that financial distress and associated headcount reductions implemented by certain of our end user customers have caused these customers to choose shorter contract durations and/or reduce the number of seats under subscription and in some cases, have caused customers not to renew contracts at all. While the number of distressed customers appears to have stabilized, we expect this trend to continue until and unless there is a broad worldwide economic recovery and positive job growth. These trends, most recently in continental Europe, have negatively impacted the duration and scope of contract renewals in certain countries or regions in the world and, in some cases, resulted in customer losses. Our average contract duration may be volatile as we seek contract renewals without eroding our average contract price for our products and seek to sell subscriptions to our TRITON and gateway security products which may have longer durations and may depend on product mix. Credit markets may also adversely affect our resellers through whom our distributors distribute products and limit the credit value-added resellers may extend to their customers. The volatility of currency exchange rates can also significantly affect sales of our products denominated in foreign currencies. In addition, events in the global financial markets may make it difficult for us to access the credit markets or to obtain additional financing or refinancing, if needed, on satisfactory terms or at all. If our security gateway products, data loss prevention products, SaaS offerings and our appliance platforms are unable to achieve more widespread market acceptance our business will be seriously harmed, particularly as Web filtering products continue to commoditize. Our ability to generate revenue growth depends on our ability to continue to diversify our offerings by successfully developing, introducing and gaining customer acceptance of our new products and services, particularly our security gateway offerings as our Web filtering products have become more of a commodity. We sell our TRITON and gateway security products to address emerging Web threats, Websense Web Security Gateway, as well as our V-Series and X-Series appliances pre-loaded with our software. We also sell the Websense Data Security Suite, our data loss prevention offering, Websense Cloud Web Security and Websense Cloud Email Security, our SaaS offerings, and Websense Email Security, our email filtering solution. We offer our products with TRITON, our unified Web, email and data security solution, which combines our products into a single platform. We continue to develop and release products in accordance with our announced product roadmap. We may not be successful in achieving market acceptance of these or any new products that we develop and may be unsuccessful in obtaining incremental sales as a result. If our products fail to meet the needs of our existing and target customers, or if they do not compare favorably in price, features and performance to competing products, our operating results and our business will be significantly impaired. If we fail to continue to upgrade and diversify our products, we could lose revenues from renewal subscriptions for our Web filtering products as these products continue to suffer from commoditization. Our V-Series and X-Series appliance platforms exposes us to risks inherent with the sale of hardware, to which we were not previously exposed as a software company. With the launch of our V-Series appliances in 2009, we began selling products that are hardware-based and not solely software-based. Our appliances are manufactured by a single third-party contract manufacturer, and a single third-party logistics company provides logistical services, including product configuration and shipping. 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 15 Table of Contents Our ability to deliver our appliances to our customers could be delayed if we fail to effectively manage our third-party relationships or if our contract manufacturer or logistics provider experiences delays, disruptions or quality control problems in manufacturing, configuring or shipping the appliances. If our third-party providers fail for any reason to manufacture and deliver the appliances with acceptable quality, in the required volumes, and in a cost-effective and timely manner, it could be costly to us, as well as disruptive to product shipments. In addition, supply disruptions or cost increases could increase our cost of goods sold and negatively impact our financial performance. If we are required to change our contract manufacturer and/or logistics provider, we may be unable to deliver our appliances to our customers on a timely basis which could result in loss of sales and existing or potential customers and could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our appliance platforms may also face greater obsolescence risks than our pure software products. Our revenues are derived almost entirely from sales through indirect channels and we depend upon these channels to create demand for our products. Our revenues have been derived almost entirely from sales through multi-tiered indirect channels, including value-added resellers, distributors and OEM customers that sell our products to end users, providers of managed Internet services and other resellers. Although we rely upon these indirect channels of distribution, we also depend significantly upon our internal sales force to generate sales leads and sell products through the reseller network. Ingram Micro, one of our broad-line distributors in North America, accounted for approximately 28%, 31% and 30% of our revenues during fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Should Ingram Micro or any of our other distributors experience financial difficulties, difficulties in collecting their accounts receivable or otherwise delay or prevent our collection of accounts receivable from them, our revenues and cash flow would be adversely affected. Also, should our resellers be subject to credit limits or have financial difficulties that limit financing terms available to them, our revenues and cash flow could be adversely affected. Our indirect sales model involves a number of additional risks, including: • our resellers and distributors are not subject to minimum sales requirements or any obligation to market our products to their customers; • we cannot control the level of effort our resellers and distributors expend or the extent to which any of them will be successful in marketing and selling our products; • we cannot ensure that our channel partners will market and sell our newer product offerings such as our security-oriented offerings, our Web Security Gateway, our V-Series and X-Series appliances, our data loss prevention and email offerings, our SaaS offerings or our TRITON content security solutions; • providers of networking hardware, OEM customers and other value-added resellers that incorporate our products into, or bundle our products with, their products may fail to provide, or restrict us from providing, adequate support services to end users of these integrated product offerings, harming our reputation and brand, or may decide to develop or sell competing products instead of our products; • our reseller and distributor agreements are generally nonexclusive and may be terminated at any time without cause; and • our resellers and distributors frequently market and distribute competing products and may, from time to time, place greater emphasis on the sale of these products due to pricing, promotions and other terms offered by our competitors. Our ability to meaningfully increase the amount of our products sold through our sales channels also depends on our ability to adequately and efficiently support these channel partners with, among other things, appropriate financial incentives to encourage pre-sales investment and development of sales tools, such as sales training, technical training and product materials needed to support their existing and prospective customers. The diversity and sophistication of our product offerings have required us to focus on additional sales and technical training, and we are making increased investments in this area. Additionally, we are continually evaluating the 16 2011 ANNUAL REPORT Table of Contents changes to our internal ordering and partner management systems in order to effectively execute our multi-tiered distribution strategy. Any failure to properly and efficiently support our sales channels will result in lost sales opportunities. Our quarterly operating results fluctuate significantly and these fluctuations may cause our stock price to fall. Our quarterly operating results have varied significantly in the past, and will likely vary in the future. Many of these variations come from macroeconomic and cyclical changes causing fluctuations in our billings, revenues, operating expenses and tax provisions. Our billings depend in part on the number of subscriptions up for renewal each quarter and are affected by cyclical variations, with the fourth quarter generally being our strongest quarter in billings, and the first quarter generally being our lowest quarter for billings each fiscal year. Although a significant portion of our revenues in any quarter comes from previously deferred revenue, a meaningful portion of our revenues in any quarter depends on the number, size and length of subscriptions to our products that are sold in that quarter as well as our appliance sales which are, following January 1, 2011, fully recognized in the quarter in which they are sold. In addition, we have become increasingly dependent upon large orders which have a significant effect on our operating results during the quarter in which we receive them. The timing of such orders or the loss of an order is difficult to predict and sales expected in a quarter may not be completed until a subsequent quarter. The unpredictability of quarterly fluctuations is further increased by the fact that a significant portion of our quarterly sales have historically been generated during the last month of each fiscal quarter, with many of the largest enterprise customers purchasing subscriptions to our products nearer to the end of the last month of each quarter. Our operating expenses may increase in the future if we expand our selling and marketing activities, increase our research and development efforts or hire additional personnel which could impact our margins. In addition, our operating expenses historically have fluctuated, and may continue to fluctuate in the future, as the result of the factors described below and elsewhere in this report: • changes in currency exchange rates impacting our international operating expenses; • timing of marketing expenses for activities such as trade shows and advertising campaigns; • quarterly variations in general and administrative expenses, such as recruiting expenses and professional services fees; • increased research and development costs prior to new or enhanced product launches; and • fluctuations in expenses associated with commissions paid on sales of subscriptions to our products which generally increase with billings growth in the short term because such expenses are recognized immediately upon sales of subscriptions while revenues are recognized ratably over the subscription term. Consequently, these factors limit our ability to accurately predict our results of operations and the expectations of current or potential investors may not be met. If this occurs, the price of our common stock may decline. Our worldwide income tax provisions and other tax accruals may be insufficient if any taxing authorities assume taxing positions that are contrary to our positions and those contrary positions are sustained. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and for our accruals for state, federal and international income taxes together with transaction taxes such as sales tax, value added tax and goods and services tax. In the ordinary course of a global business, there are many transactions for which the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Some of these uncertainties arise as a consequence of intercompany arrangements to share revenues and costs. In such arrangements there are uncertainties about the amount and manner of such sharing, which could ultimately result in changes once the arrangements are reviewed by taxing authorities. Although we believe that our approach to determining the amount of such arrangements is consistent 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 17 Table of Contents with prevailing legislative interpretation, no assurance can be given that the final tax authority review of these matters will agree with our historical income tax provisions and other tax accruals. Such differences could have a material effect on our income tax provisions or benefits, or other tax accruals, in the period in which such determination is made, and consequently, on our results of operations for such period. From time to time, we are also audited by various state, federal and tax authorities of other countries in which we operate. Generally, the tax years 2005 through 2010 could be subject to examination by U.S. federal and most state tax authorities. We are currently under examination by the respective tax authorities for tax years 2005 to 2009 in the United States and for 2006 to 2010 in Israel. We also have various other on-going audits in various stages of completion. No outcome for a particular audit can be determined with certainty prior to the conclusion of the audit and any appeals process. As each audit progresses and is ultimately concluded, adjustments, if any, will be recorded in our financial statements from time to time in light of prevailing facts based on our and the taxing authority’s respective positions on any disputed matters. We provide for potential tax exposures by accruing for uncertain tax positions based on judgment and estimates including historical audit activity. If the reserves are insufficient or we are not able to establish a reserve under GAAP prior to completion or during the progression of any audits, there could be an adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations when an audit assessment is made. In addition, our external costs of contesting and settling any dispute with the tax authorities could be substantial and adversely impact our financial position and results of operation. During the first quarter of 2010, we were informed by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) that they had completed their audit for the tax years ended December 31, 2005 through December 31, 2007. Accordingly, the IRS issued us a 30-day letter which outlined all of their proposed audit adjustments and required us to either accept the proposed adjustments, subject to future litigation, or file a formal administrative protest contesting those proposed adjustments within 30 days. The proposed adjustments relate primarily to the cost sharing arrangement between Websense, Inc. and our Irish subsidiary, including the amount of cost sharing buy-in, as well as to our claim of research and development tax credits and income tax deductions for equity compensation awarded to certain executive officers. The amount of additional tax proposed by the IRS totals approximately $19.0 million, of which $14.8 million relates to the amount of cost sharing buy-in, $2.5 million relates to research and development credits and $1.7 million relates to equity compensation awarded to certain executive officers. The total additional tax proposed excludes interest, penalties and state income taxes, each of which may be significant, and also excludes a potential reduction in tax on the Irish subsidiary. The proposed adjustments also do not include the future impact that changes in our cost sharing arrangement could have on our effective tax rate. We disagree with all of the proposed adjustments and have submitted a formal protest to the IRS for each matter. The IRS assigned our case to an IRS Appeals Officer and the appeals process commenced during the second quarter of 2011. In the third quarter of 2011, the IRS withdrew the proposed adjustment relating to equity compensation of $1.7 million, resulting in no additional tax liability. This reduced the amount of the additional tax proposed by the IRS for the tax years ended December 31, 2005 through December 31, 2007 to approximately $17.3 million. This amount excludes any interest, penalties or state income taxes, each of which may be significant, and represents approximately 56% of our net income for 2011 and approximately 23% of our cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2011. We intend to continue to defend our position on the remaining matters at the IRS Appeals Office, including through litigation if required. The timing of the ultimate resolution of these remaining matters cannot be reasonably estimated at this time and the appeals process is still ongoing as of the filing date of this Annual Report on Form 10K. The IRS has identified and is aggressively pursuing cost sharing arrangements between related domestic and international subsidiaries, including the amount of the cost sharing buy-in, as a potential area for audit exposure for many companies. If this matter is litigated or the position proposed by the IRS is otherwise sustained, our results of operations for the periods when any additional tax liability is incurred could be materially and adversely affected particularly because we have not accrued for any potential liability relating to this matter based on GAAP. We also cannot predict what impact an adverse result could have on our future income tax rate, which could adversely impact our results of operations. 18 2011 ANNUAL REPORT Table of Contents Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could materially affect our financial results. A significant portion of our foreign subsidiaries’ operating expenses are incurred in foreign currencies so if the U.S. dollar weakens, our consolidated operating expenses would increase. Conversely, our operating expenses would be lower if the U.S. dollar strengthens. These currency changes have the opposite impact on our revenues from international sales. Should the U.S. dollar strengthen, our products may become more expensive for our international customers with subscription contracts denominated in U.S. dollars, and as a result, our results of operations and net cash flows from international operations may be adversely affected. Changes in currency rates also impact our future revenues under subscription contracts that are not denominated in U.S. dollars as we bill certain international customers in Euros, British Pounds, Australian Dollars and Chinese Renminbi. Our revenue and deferred revenue for these currencies are recorded in U.S. dollars when the subscription begins based upon currency exchange rates in effect on the last day of the previous month before the subscription agreement is entered into. This accounting policy increases our risks associated with fluctuations in currency exchange rates since we cannot be assured of receiving the same U.S. dollar equivalent as when we bill exclusively in U.S. dollars. If there is a strong U.S. dollar at the time a subscription begins, we experience a reduction in subscription amounts as recorded in U.S. dollars relative to the foreign currency in which the subscription was priced to the customer. As a result, the strengthening of the U.S. dollar for current sales would reduce our future revenues from these contracts, even though these foreign currencies may strengthen during the term of these subscriptions. Because currency exchange rates remain volatile, our future revenues could be adversely affected by currency fluctuations. We engage in currency hedging activities with the intent of limiting the risk of exchange rate fluctuations, but our foreign exchange hedging activities also involve inherent risks that could result in an unforeseen loss. If we fail to properly forecast our billings, expenses and currency exchange rates these hedging activities could have a negative impact. We face increasing competition from much larger software and hardware companies, which places pressure on our pricing and which could prevent us from increasing our revenues. In addition, as we increase our emphasis on our security-oriented products, we face competition from better-established security companies that have significantly greater resources. The market for our products is intensely competitive and is likely to become even more so in the future. Our current principal Web filtering competitors frequently offer their products at a significantly lower price than our products, which has resulted in pricing pressures on sales of our basic Web filtering products and email filtering products and potentially could result in the commoditization of these products. We depend on our more advanced security solutions, such as our TRITON content security solutions, to replace and grow revenues from Web filtering subscriptions that are not renewed. We also face current and potential competition from vendors of Internet servers, operating systems and networking hardware, many of which now, or may in the future, enhance, develop and/or bundle products to include functions that are currently provided primarily by network security software. If network security functions become standard features of computer hardware or of operating system software or other software, our products may become obsolete and unmarketable, particularly if the quality of these network security features is comparable to that of our products. Furthermore, even if the network security and/or management functions provided as standard features by hardware providers or operating systems or other software is more limited than that of our products, our customers might accept this limited functionality in lieu of purchasing additional software. Sales of our products would suffer materially if we were then unable to develop new Web filtering, security and data loss prevention products to further enhance operating systems or other software and to replace any obsolete products. Increased competition may also cause price reductions or a loss of market share, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 19 Table of Contents maintain the current pricing on sales of our products or increase our pricing in the future, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. Even if our products provide greater functionality and are more effective than certain other competitive products, potential customers might accept this limited functionality. In addition, our own indirect sales channels may decide to develop or sell competing products instead of our products. Pricing pressures and increased competition generally could result in reduced sales, reduced margins or the failure of our products to achieve or maintain widespread market acceptance, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The competitive environments in which we operate and the principal competitors within each environment are described below. TRITON Solutions for Content Security Web Security. Our principal competitors offering Web security software solutions include companies such as McAfee (acquired by Intel), Symantec, Trend Micro, Check Point Software Technologies, Cisco Systems, Blue Coat Systems, Microsoft, Google, Webroot Software, SafeNet, Actiance, EdgeWave, FireEye, M86 Security, Clearswift, Sophos, Kaspersky Lab, AhnLab, IBM, Panda Security, F-Secure, Commtouch, CA Technologies, Juniper Networks, Black Box Network Services and Barracuda Networks. Email Security. Our principal competitors offering messaging or email security solutions include companies such as McAfee, Symantec/Message Labs, Google, Cisco Systems, Barracuda Networks, SonicWALL, Trend Micro, Microsoft, Axway, Sophos, Proofpoint, Clearswift, Commtouch, Zix, WatchGuard Technologies, M86 Security, Webroot Software, EdgeWave, Zscaler and Fortinet. Data Security. Our principal competitors offering data loss prevention solutions include companies such as Symantec, Verdasys, Trustwave, EMC, McAfee, IBM, Trend Micro, Proofpoint, Palisade Systems, CA Technologies, Raytheon, Intrusion, Fidelis Security Systems, GTB Technologies, Workshare, Check Point Software Technologies and Code Green Networks; and companies offering desktop security solutions, such as Check Point Software Technologies, Cisco Systems, McAfee, Microsoft, Symantec, CA Technologies, Sophos, Webroot Software, IBM and Trend Micro. Web Filtering Solutions Our principal competitors offering Web filtering solutions, including through specialized security appliances, include companies such as McAfee, Symantec, Trend Micro, Check Point Software Technologies, Cisco Systems, Blue Coat Systems, Microsoft, Google, Webroot Software, SafeNet, Actiance, EdgeWave, FireEye, M86 Security, Clearswift, Sophos, Kaspersky Lab, AhnLab, IBM, Panda Security, F-Secure, Commtouch, CA Technologies, Palo Alto Networks, Fortinet, Barracuda Networks and SonicWALL. As we develop and market our products with an increasing security-oriented emphasis, we also face growing competition from security solutions providers. Many of our competitors within the Web security market, such as Symantec, McAfee, Trend Micro, Cisco Systems, Check Point Software Technologies, Google and Microsoft enjoy substantial competitive advantages, including: • greater name recognition and larger marketing budgets and resources; • established marketing relationships and access to larger customer bases; and • substantially greater financial, technical and other resources. As a result, we may be unable to gain sufficient traction as a provider of advanced content security solutions, and our competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or devote greater resources to the development, marketing, promotion and sale of their products than we can. Current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase the functionality and market acceptance of their products or may be acquired by a corporation with significantly greater resources. 20 2011 ANNUAL REPORT Table of Contents In addition, our competitors may be able to replicate our products, make more attractive offers to existing and potential employees and strategic partners, develop new products or enhance existing products and services more quickly. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. In addition, many of our competitors made recent acquisitions in some of our product areas, and, we expect competition to increase as a result of this industry consolidation. Through an acquisition, a competitor could bundle separate products to include functions that are currently provided primarily by our Web, email and data security solutions and sell the combined product at a lower cost which could essentially include, at no additional cost, the functionality of our stand-alone solutions. For all of the foregoing reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully against our current and future competitors. The covenants in our credit facility restrict our financial and operational flexibility, including our ability to complete additional acquisitions and invest in new business opportunities. In October 2010, we announced that we had entered into a senior credit facility (the “2010 Credit Agreement” or the “2010 Credit Facility”) and used the initial proceeds to repay our term loan and retire the 2007 amended and restated senior secured credit facility entered into in October 2007 (the “2007 Credit Agreement” or the “2007 Credit Facility”). The 2010 Credit Agreement contains affirmative and negative covenants, including an obligation to maintain a certain consolidated leverage ratio and consolidated interest coverage ratio and restrictions on our ability to borrow money, to incur liens, to enter into mergers and acquisitions, to make dispositions, to pay cash dividends or repurchase capital stock, and to make investments, subject to certain exceptions. An event of default under the 2010 Credit Agreement could allow the lenders to declare all amounts outstanding with respect to the agreement to be immediately due and payable. The 2010 Credit Agreement is secured by substantially all of our assets, including pledges of stock of certain of our subsidiaries (subject to limitations in the case of foreign subsidiaries) and by secured guarantees by our domestic subsidiaries. If the amount outstanding under the 2010 Credit Agreement is accelerated, the lenders could proceed against those assets and stock. Any event of default, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business. The 2010 Credit Agreement also requires us to maintain specified financial ratios. Our ability to meet these financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot ensure that we will meet those ratios. Our international operations involve risks that could increase our expenses, adversely affect our operating results and require increased time and attention of our management. We have significant operations outside of the United States, including research and development, sales and customer support. We have engineering operations in Reading, England; Beijing, China and Ra’anana, Israel. We plan to continue to expand our international operations, but such expansion is contingent upon the financial performance of our existing international operations as well as our identification of growth opportunities. Our international operations are subject to risks in addition to those faced by our domestic operations, including: • difficulties associated with managing a distributed organization located on multiple continents in greatly varying time zones; • potential loss of proprietary information due to misappropriation or foreign laws that may be less protective of our intellectual property rights; • requirements of foreign laws and other governmental controls, including trade and labor restrictions and related laws that reduce the flexibility of our business operations; • potential failures of our foreign employees or partners to comply with U.S. and foreign laws, including antitrust laws, trade regulations and anti-bribery and corruption laws; • political unrest, war or terrorism, particularly in areas in which we have facilities; 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 21 Table of Contents • difficulties in staffing, managing, and operating our international operations, including difficulties related to administering our stock plans in some foreign countries; • difficulties in coordinating the activities of our geographically dispersed and culturally diverse operations; • restrictions on our ability to repatriate cash from our international subsidiaries or to exchange cash in international subsidiaries into cash available for use in the United States; and • costs and delays associated with developing software in multiple languages. Sales to customers outside the United States have accounted for a significant portion of our revenues, which exposes us to risks inherent in international sales. We market and sell our products outside the United States through value-added resellers, distributors and other resellers. International sales represented approximately 50% of our total revenues generated during fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009. As a key component of our business strategy to generate new business sales, we intend to continue to expand our international sales, but success cannot be assured. In addition to the risks associated with our domestic sales, our international sales are subject to the following risks: • our ability to adapt to sales and marketing practices and customer requirements in different cultures; • our ability to successfully localize software products for a significant number of international markets; • laws in foreign countries may not adequately protect our intellectual property rights; • the significant presence of some of our competitors in some international markets; • laws and business practices favoring local competitors; • dependence on foreign distributors and their sales channels; • longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • compliance with multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations, including tax laws and regulations and consumer protection and privacy laws; and • regional economic and political conditions, including civil unrest and adverse economic conditions in emerging markets with significant growth potential. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our international sales. Any reduction in international sales, or our failure to further develop our international distribution channels, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Security threats to our IT infrastructure could expose us to liability, and damage our reputation and business. It is essential to our business strategy that our technology and network infrastructure remain secure and is perceived by our customers, distributors and resellers to be secure. Despite security measures, however, any network infrastructure may be vulnerable to cyber-attacks by hackers and other security threats. As a provider of security solutions designed to provide content security by protecting an organization’s data and users, we may face cyber-attacks that attempt to penetrate our network security, including our data centers, to sabotage or otherwise disable our products and services, misappropriate our or our customers’ proprietary information, which may include personally identifiable information, or cause interruptions of our internal systems and services. If successful, any of these attacks could negatively affect our reputation as a provider of security solutions, damage our network infrastructure and our ability to deploy our products and services, harm our relationship with customers that are affected and expose us to financial liability. 22 2011 ANNUAL REPORT Table of Contents We may not be able to develop acceptable new products or enhancements to our existing products at a rate required by our rapidly changing market. Our future success depends on our ability to develop new products or enhancements to our existing products that keep pace with rapid technological developments and that address the changing needs of our customers. Although our products are designed to operate with a variety of network hardware and software platforms, we need to continuously modify and enhance our products to keep pace with changes in Internet-related hardware, software, communication, browser and database technologies. We may not be successful in either developing such products or introducing them to the market in a timely fashion. In addition, uncertainties about the timing and nature of new network platforms or technologies, or modifications to existing platforms or technologies could increase our research and development expenses. The failure of our products to operate effectively with the existing and future network platforms and technologies will limit or reduce the market for our products, result in customer dissatisfaction and seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely upon a combination of automated filtering technology and human review to categorize URLs and executable files in our proprietary databases. Our customers may not agree with our determinations that particular URLs and executable files should be included or not included in specific categories of our databases. In addition, it is possible that our filtering processes may place objectionable or security risk material in categories that are generally unrestricted by our users’ Internet and computer access policies, which could result in such material not being blocked from the network. Any errors in categorization could result in customer dissatisfaction and harm our reputation. Any failure to effectively categorize and filter URLs and executable files according to our customers’ expectations could impair the growth of our business. Our databases and database technologies may not be able to keep pace with the growth in the number of URLs and executable files, especially the growing amount of content utilizing foreign languages and the increasing sophistication of malicious code and the delivery mechanisms associated with spyware, phishing and other hazards associated with the Internet. The success of our dynamic Web categorization capabilities may be critical to our customers’ long term acceptance of our products. We may spend significant time and money on research and development to enhance our TRITON management console, appliances, content gateway products, data loss prevention products and our SaaS offerings. If these products fail to achieve broad market acceptance in our target markets, we may be unable to generate significant revenues from our research and development efforts. As a result, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely impacted. Because our products primarily manage access to URLs and executable files included in our databases, if our databases do not contain a meaningful portion of relevant content, the effectiveness of our Web filtering products will be significantly diminished. Any failure of our databases to keep pace with the rapid growth and technological change of the Internet, such as the increasing amount of multimedia content on the Internet that is not easily classified, will impair the market acceptance of our products. If we fail to maintain adequate operations infrastructure, we may experience disruptions of our SaaS offerings. Any disruption to our technology infrastructure or the Internet could harm our operations and our reputation among our customers. Our technology and network infrastructure is extensive and complex, and could result in inefficiencies or operational failures. These potential inefficiencies or operational failures could diminish the quality of our products, services, and user experience, resulting in damage to our reputation and loss of current and potential subscribers, and could harm our operating results and financial condition. Any disruption to our computer systems could adversely impact the performance of our SaaS offerings and hybrid service offerings, our customer service, our delivery of products or our operations and result in increased costs and lost opportunities for business. 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 23 Table of Contents Failure of our products to work properly or misuse of our products could impact sales, increase costs, and create risks of potential negative publicity and legal liability. Our products are complex, are deployed in a wide variety of network environments and manage content in a dramatically changing world. Our products may have errors or defects that users identify after deployment, which could harm our reputation and our business. In addition, products as complex as ours frequently contain undetected errors when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. We have from time to time found errors in versions of our products, and we expect to find such errors in the future. Because customers rely on our products to manage employee behavior to protect against security risks and prevent the loss of sensitive data, including confidential and proprietary information, any significant defects or errors in our products may result in negative publicity or legal claims. For example, an actual or perceived breach of network or computer security at one of our customers, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products, could adversely affect the market’s perception of our security products. Moreover, any actual security breach could result in product liability and related claims. Our subscription agreements with our customers typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims, however, it is possible, that such provisions may not be effective under the laws of certain jurisdictions, particularly in circumstances involving subscriptions without signed agreements from our customers. In addition to the risks above, parties whose Web sites or executable files are placed in security-risk categories or other categories with negative connotations may seek redress against us for falsely labeling them or for interfering with their business. The occurrence of errors could adversely affect sales of our products, divert the attention of engineering personnel from our product development efforts and cause significant customer relations or legal problems. Our products may also be misused or abused by customers or non-customer third parties who obtain access to our products. These situations may arise where an organization uses our products in a manner that impacts their end users’ or employees’ privacy or where our products are misappropriated to censor private access to the Internet. Any of these situations could result in negative press coverage and negatively affect our reputation. Third parties claiming that we infringe their proprietary rights could cause us to incur significant legal expenses that reduce our operating margins and/or prevent us from selling our products. The software and Internet industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, trademarks and copyrights and by frequent litigation based on allegations of patent infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. As we expand our product offerings in the data loss and security area where larger companies with large patent portfolios compete, the possibility of an intellectual property claim against us grows. We may receive claims that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of others, including claims regarding patents, copyrights and trademarks. For example, on July 12, 2010, Finjan, Inc. filed a complaint entitled Finjan, Inc. v. McAfee, Inc., Symantec Corp., Webroot Software, Inc., Websense, Inc. and Sophos, Inc. in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. The complaint alleges that our Web filtering and Web Security Gateway products infringe a patent owned by Finjan and seeks damages and injunctive relief. Any such claim, including Finjan’s claim, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation and distract management from day-to-day operations and may result in us deciding to enter into license agreements to avoid ongoing patent litigation costs. If we are not successful in defending such claims, we could be required to stop selling our products, redesign our products, pay monetary amounts as damages, enter into royalty or licensing arrangements, or satisfy indemnification obligations that we have with some of our customers. Such arrangements may cause our operating margins to decline. The amount of our debt outstanding may prevent us from taking actions we would otherwise consider in our best interest. In October 2010, we announced that we had entered into the 2010 Credit Agreement and that we used the initial proceeds to repay the term loan and retire the 2007 Credit Facility. Under the 2010 Credit Agreement, we 24 2011 ANNUAL REPORT Table of Contents can borrow up to $120 million and use proceeds to fund share repurchases or other corporate purposes. We may increase the maximum aggregate commitment under the 2010 Credit Agreement to $200 million if certain conditions are satisfied, including that we are not in default under the 2010 Credit Agreement at the time of the increase and that we obtain the commitment of the lenders participating in the increase. If we should need to increase the aggregate commitment, it may not be possible to satisfy these conditions. The limitations the 2010 Credit Agreement imposes on us could have important consequences, including the following: • it may be difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under the 2010 Credit Agreement; • we may be less able to obtain other debt financing in the future; • we could be less able to take advantage of significant business opportunities, including acquisitions or divestitures, as a result of debt covenants under the 2010 Credit Agreement; • our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions could be increased; • we could be at a competitive disadvantage to competitors with less debt; and • we may be unable to continue to repurchase our securities due to certain financial covenants set forth in the 2010 Credit Agreement. We face risks related to customer outsourcing to system integrators. Some of our customers have outsourced the management of their IT departments to large system integrators. If this trend continues, our established customer relationships could be disrupted and our products could be displaced by alternative system and network protection solutions offered by system integrators. Significant product displacements could impact our revenues and have a material adverse effect on our business. Any failure to protect our proprietary technology would negatively impact our business. Intellectual property is critical to our success, and we rely upon patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws in the United States and other jurisdictions as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology and our Websense brands. While we require employees, collaborators and consultants to enter into confidentiality agreements and include provisions in our subscription agreements with customers that prohibit the unauthorized reproduction or transfer of our products, we cannot assure that these agreements will not be breached or that we will have adequate remedies for any breach. We rely on trade secrets to protect technology where we believe patent protection is not appropriate or obtainable and protect the source code of our products as trade secrets and as unpublished copyrighted works. We may not be able to adequately protect our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure, or the lawful development by others of such information. Any unauthorized disclosure of our source code or other trade secrets could result in the loss of future trade secret protection for those items. Additionally, any intentional disruption and/or the unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information, via theft or a cyber-attack, could adversely affect our competitive position, reputation, brands and future sales of our products. We have registered our trademarks in various countries and have registrations for the Websense trademark pending in several countries. Effective trademark protection may not be available in every country where our products are available. Furthermore, any of our trademarks may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation. We currently have 33 patents issued in the United States and 28 patents issued internationally, and we may be unable to obtain further patent protection in the future. We have other pending patent applications in the United States and in other countries. We cannot ensure that: • we were the first to conceive the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications; 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 25 Table of Contents • we were the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • any of our pending patent applications are not obvious or anticipated such that they will not result in issued patents; • others will not independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; • any patents issued to us will provide us with any competitive advantages or will not be challenged by third parties; • we will develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; or • the patents of others will not have a negative effect on our ability to do business. Our patents and claims in pending patent applications cover features or technology used in certain of our products but do not cover all of the technology utilized in any such product or preclude our competitors from offering competing products. Furthermore, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain and can change over time. Effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available to us in every country in which our products are available. The laws of some foreign countries may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as U.S. laws, and mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights may be inadequate. As a result our means of protecting our proprietary technology and brands may not be adequate. Furthermore, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property, including the misappropriation or misuse of the content of our proprietary databases of URLs and executable files, and our ability to police that misappropriation or infringement is uncertain, particularly in countries outside of the United States. Any such infringement or misappropriation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Because we recognize revenues from subscriptions for our software products ratably over the term of the subscription, downturns in software subscription sales may not be immediately reflected in our revenues. Most of our revenues come from the sale of subscriptions to our software products, including our SaaS offerings. Upon execution of a subscription agreement or receipt of royalty reports from OEM customers, we invoice our customers for the full term of the subscription agreement or for the period covered by the royalty report from OEM customers. We then recognize revenue from customers daily over the terms of their subscription agreements, or performance period under the OEM contract, as applicable, which, in the case of subscriptions, typically have durations of 12, 24 or 36 months. Even though new revenue recognition rules require us to recognize revenue from hardware sales in the current period that the sale is concluded, a majority of the revenues we report in each quarter will continue to be derived from deferred revenue from subscription agreements and OEM contracts entered into and paid for during previous quarters. Because of this financial model, the revenues we report in any quarter or series of quarters may mask significant downturns in sales and the market acceptance of our products, before these downturns are reflected by declining revenues. Acquired companies or technologies can be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and adversely affect our operating results. We may acquire additional companies, services and technologies in the future as part of our efforts to expand and diversify our business. Although we review the records of companies or businesses we are interested in acquiring, even an in-depth review may not reveal existing or potential problems or permit us to become familiar enough with a business to assess fully its capabilities and deficiencies. Integration of acquired companies may disrupt or slow the momentum of the activities of our business. As a result, if we fail to properly evaluate, execute and integrate future acquisitions, our business and prospects may be seriously harmed. 26 2011 ANNUAL REPORT Table of Contents Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • difficulties in integrating operations, technologies, services and personnel of the acquired company; • potential loss of customers and OEM relationships of the acquired company; • diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations and core businesses; • risks associated with entrance into new markets; • potential loss of key employees of the acquired company; • integrating personnel with diverse business and cultural backgrounds; • preserving the development, distribution, marketing and other important relationships of the companies; • assuming liabilities of the acquired company, including debt and litigation; • inability to generate sufficient revenues from newly acquired products and/or cost savings needed to offset acquisition related costs; and • the continued use by acquired companies of accounting policies that differ from GAAP. Acquisitions may also cause us to: • issue equity securities that would dilute our current stockholders’ percentage ownership; • assume certain liabilities, including liabilities that were not detected at the time of the acquisition; • incur additional debt; • make large and immediate one-time write-offs for restructuring and other related expenses; • become subject to intellectual property or other litigation; and • create goodwill and other intangible assets that could result in significant impairment charges and/or amortization expense. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. The market price of our common stock has been and likely will continue to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors that are beyond our control, including: • deteriorating or fluctuating world economic conditions; • announcements of technological innovations or new products or services by our competitors; • demand for our products, including fluctuations in subscription renewals; • changes in the pricing policies of our competitors; and • changes in government regulations. In addition, the market price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to: • announcements of technological innovations or new products or services by us; • changes in our pricing policies; and • quarterly variations in our revenues and operating expenses. Further, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market price of the stock of many Internet-related companies, and that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Market fluctuations such as these may 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 27 Table of Contents seriously harm the market price of our common stock. In the past, securities class action suits have been filed following periods of market volatility in the price of a company’s securities. If such an action were instituted, we would incur substantial costs and a diversion of management attention and resources, which would seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are dependent on our management team, and the loss of any key member of this team may prevent us from implementing our business plan in a timely manner. Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key management personnel and our ability to recruit new personnel to executive and key management positions. For example, we are in the process of recruiting a new Chief Financial Officer to assume this position from our General Counsel, Chief Administrative Officer and Corporate Secretary, Michael A. Newman, who is currently also serving as our interim Chief Financial Officer. We are also substantially dependent on the continued service of our existing engineering personnel because of the complexity of our products and technologies. We do not have employment agreements with our executive officers, key management or development personnel that would prevent them from terminating their employment with us at any time. We do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our employees. The loss of one or more of our key employees could seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. In such an event we may be unable to recruit personnel to replace these individuals in a timely manner, or at all, on acceptable terms. Because competition for our target employees is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled employees we need to support our planned growth. To execute our growth plan, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. We have from time to time in the past experienced, and we expect to continue to experience in the future, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. In order to attract and retain personnel in a competitive marketplace, we believe that we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash and equity-based compensation. The volatility of our stock price and our results of operations may from time to time adversely affect our ability to recruit or retain employees. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have. If we fail to attract new personnel or retain and motivate our current personnel, our revenues may be negatively impacted and our business and future growth prospects could be severely harmed. If our internal controls are not effective, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires companies to conduct a comprehensive evaluation of their internal control over financial reporting. To comply with this statute, we are required to document and test our internal control over financial reporting; our management is required to assess and issue a report concerning our internal control over financial reporting; and our independent registered public accounting firm is required to attest to and report on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. In our annual and quarterly reports (as amended) for the periods from December 31, 2008 through September 30, 2009, we reported material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting which related to our revenue recognition under OEM contracts and our computation of our income tax benefit for the year ended December 31, 2008. We took a number of actions to remediate these material weaknesses. As a result of an error in identifying a variance in our deferred tax assets in the fourth quarter of 2010, we reassessed the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures for the year ended December 31, 2009 and the period from January 1, 2010 through September 30, 2010 and concluded that we continued to have a material weakness in the internal controls over the computation of our income tax provision. In the fourth quarter of 2010, we took additional remediation measures and concluded that the material weakness described above had been remediated as of December 31, 2010. 28 2011 ANNUAL REPORT Table of Contents Although we believe we have taken appropriate actions to remediate the material weaknesses, we cannot assure you that we will not discover other material weaknesses applicable to both future and past reporting periods. The existence of one or more material weaknesses could result in errors in our financial statements, and substantial costs and resources may be required to rectify these or other internal control deficiencies. If we cannot produce reliable financial reports, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly, and our business and financial condition could be harmed. The restatement of our historical financial statements may affect stockholder confidence, may consume a significant amount of our time and resources and may have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. We restated our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures for fiscal years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. We cannot be certain that the measures we have taken since we completed the restatement process will ensure that restatements will not occur in the future. A restatement may affect investor confidence in the accuracy of our financial disclosures and may result in a decline in stock price and stockholder lawsuits related to the restatement. We cannot guarantee that we will not be affected in this way. The restatement process was also highly time and resource-intensive and involved substantial attention from management and significant legal and accounting costs. Although we have now completed the restatement, we cannot guarantee that we will not receive inquiries from the SEC or the NASDAQ Stock Market, Inc. (“NASDAQ”) regarding our restated financial statements or matters relating thereto. Any future inquiries from the SEC or NASDAQ as a result of the restatement of our historical financial statements will, regardless of the outcome, likely consume a significant amount of our resources in addition to those resources already consumed in connection with the restatement itself. Compliance with regulations relating to corporate governance, accounting principles and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Compliance with laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance, accounting principles and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, and NASDAQ listing rules, have caused us to incur higher compliance costs and we expect to continue to incur higher compliance costs as a result of our increased global reach and obligation to ensure compliance with these laws as well as local laws in the jurisdictions where we do business. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time. Further guidance by regulatory and governing bodies can result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs related to the ongoing revisions to accounting, disclosure and governance practices. Our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may be harmed. If we cannot effectively manage our internal growth, our business revenues, results of operations and prospects may suffer. If we fail to manage our internal growth in a manner that minimizes strains on our resources, we could experience disruptions in our operations that could negatively affect our revenues, billings and results of operations. We are pursuing a strategy of organic growth through introduction of new products, leveraging our two-tier distribution channels and international expansion. Each of these initiatives requires an investment of our 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 29 Table of Contents financial and employee resources and involves risks that may result in a lower return on our investments than we expect. These initiatives also may limit the opportunities we pursue or investments we would otherwise make, which may in turn impact our prospects. It may be difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. Some provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as well as some provisions of Delaware law, may discourage, delay or prevent third parties from acquiring us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. For example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that stockholders may not call stockholder meetings or act by written consent. Our amended and restated bylaws provide that stockholders may not fill board of director vacancies and further provide that advance written notice is required prior to stockholder proposals. Each of these provisions makes it more difficult for stockholders to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by the then current board of directors. Additionally, we have authorized preferred stock that is undesignated, making it possible for the board of directors to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock with voting or other rights and preferences that could impede the success of any attempted change of control. Delaware law also could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law has an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by our board of directors, including discouraging attempts that might result in a premium over the market price of the shares of common stock held by our stockholders. Our borrowings under the 2010 Credit Facility accelerates and becomes payable in full upon a change of control, which is defined generally as a person or group acquiring 35% of our voting securities or a proxy contest that results in changing a majority of our board of directors. These consequences may discourage third parties from attempting to acquire us. We do not intend to pay dividends. We have not declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock since we have been a publicly traded company. We currently intend to retain any future cash flows from operations to fund growth, pay down the 2010 Credit Facility and repurchase shares of our common stock, and therefore do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Moreover, we are not permitted to pay cash dividends under the terms of the 2010 Credit Facility. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 