ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Certain statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and other written and oral statements made from time to time by us, do not relate strictly to historical facts. These statements are considered “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Words such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “could,” “estimate,” “expect,” “forecast,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “possible,” “project,” and “should,” or similar words or expressions, are intended to identify forward looking statements. This forward looking information involves important risks and uncertainties that could materially alter results in the future from those expressed in any forward looking statements made by, or on behalf of, us. We caution you that such forward-looking statements are only predictions and that actual events or results may differ materially. In evaluating such statements, you should specifically consider the various factors that could cause actual events or results to differ materially, including those factors described below. It is not possible to foresee or identify all factors affecting our forward-looking statements and you should not consider any list of such factors to be exhaustive. We are under no duty to update any forward-looking statements. OUR MERGER WITH ALLERGAN MAY NOT HAVE THE BENEFITS WE EXPECT OR MAY DISRUPT OUR BUSINESS. The impact of Allergan’s acquisition of Inamed may result in any or all of the following risks: the businesses will not be integrated successfully; the anticipated synergies from the acquisition may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; and disruption from the acquisition, which could harm relationships with our current customers, employees or suppliers and affect our pricing, spending, third-party relationships and revenues. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO AVOID SIGNIFICANT PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS, PRODUCT RECALLS, OR INDEMNIFICATION CLAIMS, WE MAY BE FORCED TO PAY SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE AWARDS, CLAIMS, AND OTHER EXPENSES THAT COULD EXCEED OUR ACCRUALS AND INSURANCE COVERAGE. We have in the past been, currently are, and may in the future be subject to product liability claims alleging that the use of our technology or products has resulted in adverse health effects. These claims may be brought even with respect to products that have received, or in the future may receive, regulatory approval for commercial sale. In particular, the manufacture and sale of breast implant products entails significant risk of product liability claims due to potential allegations of possible disease causation, transmission, complications and other health factors, rupture, deflation or other product failure. Other breast implant manufacturers that suffered such claims in the past have been forced to cease operations or even to declare bankruptcy. We also face a substantial risk of product liability claims from our obesity intervention products and our facial aesthetics products. In addition to product liability claims, we may in the future need to recall or issue field corrections related to our products due to manufacturing deficiencies, labeling errors, or other safety or regulatory reasons. We have, from time to time, entered into indemnification agreements with health care practitioners with respect to certain clinical research studies. Pursuant to these agreements, we have agreed to indemnify the health care practitioners from third-party claims (in addition to product liability claims) resulting from or arising out of these studies. 15 At present, except for some of our products used in current clinical trials, we have no third-party liability insurance to protect us from the damages and the costs of claims for damages due to the use or recall of our products or indemnification claims. Product liability claims, recall orders or indemnification claims could result in material losses. In addition, we continue to incur substantial costs and expenses as a result of our liabilities related to the Trilucent breast implant. Our Trilucent costs and expenses derive in part from the program announced by us on June 6, 2000, and include, among other things, continuing expenses of our explantation program, regulatory compliance, scientific and other investigative studies, bodily injury and financial loss claims, and related legal and defense costs. While we have insurance for some of these expenses and have also established accruals for them in addition to our insurance program, the combined amount of our insurance and accruals may be insufficient to cover all our future Trilucent-related liabilities. In 2002, we came to final settlements with each of our two insurers for product liability claims arising from the Trilucent implant. Under one settlement with MEDMARC Casualty Insurance Company, MEDMARC paid $6.0 million in cash to us in January 2003, $1.5 million cash to us in May 2003, and, effective November 16, 2002, agreed to make a policy with a limit of $10.0 million available to us for defense and indemnification of Trilucent-related bodily injury claims worldwide. The policy does not cover claims filed against us after November 7, 2005. This policy was fully used as of June 30, 2004. Under the second settlement, AISLIC, an AIG company, agreed to make an excess policy with a limit of $10.0 million available to us for the indemnification of non-U.S. Trilucent claims. There was approximately $1.6 million remaining under this commitment at December 31, 2005. In addition, at December 31, 2005, we had an accrual for future Trilucent claims, costs, and expenses of approximately $4.0 million and insurance of $1.6 million, or $2.4 million, net of insurance. While we currently believe this amount is adequate, it is possible that our future Trilucent-related liabilities could exceed this amount. Further, the existing insurance coverage is subject to a number of conditions. Thus, our accruals and liability insurance coverage under the foregoing insurance policies may be inadequate to cover our future Trilucent-related liabilities, including our Trilucent-related bodily injury claims and other contingent liabilities. Under the program announced on June 6, 2000, we have, through our AEI Inc. subsidiary, undertaken a comprehensive program of support and assistance for women who received Trilucent breast implants, under which we are covering medical expenses associated with the removal and replacement of those implants for the approximately 8,500 women who received them. To date, we believe that virtually all of the United Kingdom residents and more than 95% of the women in the rest of the world who had these implants have had them removed. The product was not sold commercially in the United States. Prior to February 15, 2005, an insurance company honored its commitment under an insurance policy to reimburse us for most of the medical expenses incurred in connection with this explantation program. As of February 15, 2005, this policy expired in accordance with its terms. Despite the expiration of this policy, we have continued to pay for the explantations of certain Trilucent recipients and may do so in the future. Hence it is possible that we could incur material liabilities for Trilucent-related explantation expenses in the future for which we will not have insurance coverage. Recipients of the Trilucent implants have also asserted claims and brought legal proceedings against the Company, AEI (an affiliate of the Company), other affiliated and unaffiliated entities, and persons alleging bodily injury and financial loss as a result of the implantation and explantation of their Trilucent implants. To date, we have been able to resolve these claims within our accruals and with insurance proceeds. In the United Kingdom and Spain, we entered into protocols under which women who have had their Trilucent implants removed since June 6, 2000 applied for certain fixed levels of compensation, or obtained an independent, binding determination of their damages, without proof of defect or legal causation. In the United Kingdom, while we have been successful in settling the vast majority of claims, we have yet to finally adjudicate approximately 50 claims in which women in the U.K. are claiming serious 16 medical complications from their Trilucent explantation procedure. See Part I, Item 3 Legal Proceedings. In Spain, although approximately 336 women have accepted our protocol, approximately 63 have commenced individual legal proceedings (approximately 39 of which are still pending) and a Spanish consumer union has commenced a single action in which it alleges that it represents 41 Spanish Trilucent explantees. More than 790 Spanish women were explanted and hence more than 300 have yet to make claims for bodily injury or financial loss (although we have already paid for their explants). The claims of many of these women may now be time-barred under Spanish law. In addition, in the second quarter of 2005, for the first time an appellate court in Spain issued a decision holding that Trilucent beast implants were not “defective” within the meaning of Spanish product liability law and dismissed a €60,000 award issued by the lower court. While this ruling is a positive development for Inamed, it may not be followed by other Spanish appellate courts or could be modified or be found to be inapplicable to other cases filed in the Madrid district. In the third quarter of 2005, we terminated the voluntary settlement protocols under which Trilucent explantees in the U.K. and Spain could obtain compensation without proof of defect or legal causation. We did so because, in the opinion of our counsel, it is unlikely that women who are seeking explantation at this late date could be doing so in reliance on the June 6, 2000 Hazard Notice. However, while we believe that there will be relatively few new Trilucent bodily injury claims in the future, we may in fact receive new Trilucent bodily injury claims and may attempt to settle them rather than litigate them in order to conserve resources. We are also facing Trilucent related claims and legal proceedings in Germany, Belgium, Italy and other countries. In Germany, where as many as 1,500 to 2,000 women are believed to have been implanted with Trilucent, approximately 950 have been explanted, but only approximately 130 have made claims for bodily injury or financial loss (although we have already paid for their explants). By reason of adverse publicity concerning Trilcuent and the announced closure of our explantation program, we have continued to receive Trilucent-related bodily injury claims in Germany, Belgium, Italy and other European countries. In addition, under U.K. and Spanish law, the release granted to us under our settlement protocol is necessarily provisional, and each participating claimant reserves the right to pursue a future claim should she develop cancer or reproductive abnormalities. On August 4, 2004, the Trilucent Scientific Advisory Panel (TSAP) delivered a report to the successor entity to the MDA in the United Kingdom, known as the MHRA. In its report, issued after more than three years of research, the TSAP concluded that there is no scientific evidence that Trilucent implants pose a significant systemic risk to human health but that the removal of the implants on precautionary grounds was and is appropriate. Although our regulator in the U.K. has determined that no further studies of Trilucent are currently required, we could also be obligated to fund scientific or epidemiologic research, or incur expenses for medical monitoring, that are in excess of the spending levels which are currently forecast. As a result of these and other factors, the total amount of accruals and insurance available to address our future Trilucent-related liabilities may be insufficient and we may need to make additional provisions for Trilucent related liabilities in the future. WE ARE SUBJECT TO SUBSTANTIAL GOVERNMENT REGULATION, WHICH COULD MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. The production and marketing of our products and our ongoing research and development, pre-clinical testing and clinical trial activities are subject to extensive regulation and review by numerous governmental authorities both in the U.S. and abroad. Most of the products we develop must undergo rigorous pre-clinical and clinical testing and an extensive regulatory approval process before they can be marketed. This process makes it longer, harder and more costly to bring our products to market, and we cannot guarantee that any of our products will be approved, or, once approved, not recalled. The pre-marketing approval process and biologic license application process can be particularly expensive, uncertain and lengthy, and a number of products for which FDA approval has been sought by other companies have never been approved for marketing. In addition to testing and approval procedures, 17 extensive regulations also govern marketing, manufacturing, distribution, labeling, and record-keeping procedures. If we do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, such violations could result in warning letters, non-approval, suspensions of regulatory approvals, civil penalties and criminal fines, product seizures and recalls, operating restrictions, injunctions, and criminal prosecution. Delays in or rejection of FDA or other government entity approval of our new products may also adversely affect our business. Such delays or rejection may be encountered due to, among other reasons, government or regulatory delays, lack of efficacy during clinical trials, unforeseen safety issues, slower than expected rate of patient recruitment for clinical trials, inability to follow patients after treatment in clinical trials, inconsistencies between early clinical trial results and results obtained in later clinical trials, varying interpretations of data generated by clinical trials, or changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development in the U.S. and abroad. In the U.S., there has been a continuing trend of more stringent FDA oversight in product clearance and enforcement activities, causing manufacturers to experience longer approval cycles, more uncertainty, greater risk, and higher expenses. On April 11, 2005, the General and Plastic Surgery Advisory Panel (Panel) of the FDA recommended by a five to four vote the non-approval to the FDA of our Pre-Market Approval (PMA) application to market responsive silicone gel-filled breast implants in the U.S. After consideration of the outcome of the Panel meeting and in consultation with the FDA, we modified our responsive gel PMA by separating data for 8 round style investigational device and the shaped Style 153 investigational devices. This PMA modification also included new 10 to 12 year European data for these styles. We also decided to voluntarily end the availability of the Style 153 as an investigational device in clinical studies. The Style 153 accounted for approximately $3.4 million (less than 1%) of our total revenues in 2004. On September 21, 2005, we announced that we received an “approvable letter” from the FDA for our responsive silicone gel-filled breast implants. The approvable letter stipulates a number of conditions that we must comply with in order to receive FDA approval to market and sell responsive silicone gel-filled breast implants in the U.S. An “approvable letter” is one of several intermediate steps in the FDA review process of new products. If we do not meet the conditions of our “approvable letter”, then we may not be permitted to market and sell silicone breast implants in the U.S., which could harm our financial results and prospects. In addition, our principal competitor in the U.S, Mentor Corporation, announced that it received an “approvable letter” from the FDA for its silicone gel-filled breast implants on July 28, 2005. If Mentor is approved to market and sell silicone breast implants in the U.S before us, Mentor’s silicone-gel filled breast implants would then be the only approved silicone implants in the U.S., which could provide Mentor with a competitive advantage over us the U.S. breast implant market, at least in the short term. Internationally, there is a risk that we may not be successful in meeting applicable quality standards or other certification requirements. Even if regulatory approval of a product is granted, this approval may entail limitations on uses for which the product may be labeled and promoted. It is possible, for example, that we may not receive FDA approval to market our current products for broader or different applications or to market updated products that represent extensions of our basic technology. In addition, we may not receive FDA export approval to export our products in the future, and countries to which products are to be exported may not approve them for import. Our manufacturing facilities also are subject to continual governmental review and inspection. The FDA has stated publicly that compliance with manufacturing regulations will be scrutinized more strictly. A governmental authority may challenge our compliance with applicable federal, state and foreign regulations. In addition, any discovery of previously unknown problems with one of our products or facilities may result in restrictions on the product or the facility, including withdrawal of the product from the market or other enforcement actions. From time to time, legislative or regulatory proposals are introduced that could alter the review and approval process relating to our products. It is possible that the FDA or other governmental authorities 18 will issue additional regulations further restricting the sale of our present or proposed products. Any change in legislation or regulations that govern the review and approval process relating to our current and future products could make it more difficult and costly to obtain approval for new products, or to produce, market, and distribute existing products. IF WE SUFFER NEGATIVE PUBLICITY CONCERNING THE SAFETY OF OUR PRODUCTS, OUR SALES MAY BE HARMED AND WE MAY BE FORCED TO WITHDRAW PRODUCTS. Physicians and potential and existing patients may have a number of concerns about the safety of our products, including our breast implants, obesity intervention products and facial dermal fillers, whether such concerns have a basis in generally accepted science or peer-reviewed scientific research or not. Negative publicity—whether accurate or inaccurate—about our products, based on, for example, news about breast implant litigation or regulatory activities, new government regulation, or bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) or Creutzfeldt-Jacob, or “mad cow” disease, could materially reduce market acceptance of our products and could result in product withdrawals. In addition, significant negative publicity could result in an increased number of product liability claims, whether or not these claims have a basis in scientific fact. OUR QUARTERLY OPERATING RESULTS ARE SUBJECT TO SUBSTANTIAL FLUCTUATIONS AND ANY FAILURE TO MEET FINANCIAL EXPECTATIONS FOR ANY FISCAL QUARTER MAY DISAPPOINT SECURITIES ANALYSTS AND INVESTORS AND COULD CAUSE OUR STOCK PRICE TO DECLINE. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may vary significantly in the future due to a combination of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: · changes in demand for our products; · our ability to meet the demand for our products; · on-going and increased competition; · the number, timing, pricing and significance of new products and product introductions and enhancements by us and our competitors; · regulatory approvals or non-approvals obtained either by us or a competitor; · our ability to develop, introduce and market new products and enhanced versions of our existing products on a timely basis; · changes in pricing policies by us or our competitors; · events related to the proposed acquisition by Allergan and/or the operating results or stock price of Allergan; · merger-related expenses if the merger with Allergan is not consummated; · the timing of significant orders and shipments; · regulatory approvals or other regulatory action affecting new or existing products; · litigation with respect to product liability, intellectual property, and other claims or product recalls and any insurance covering such claims or recalls; and · general economic factors, such as foreign exchange rates. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and you should not rely upon these comparisons as indications of future 19 performance. These factors may cause our operating results to be below securities analysts’ expectations in some future quarters, which could cause the market price of our stock to decline. IF CHANGES IN THE ECONOMY AND CONSUMER SPENDING REDUCE CONSUMER DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS, OUR SALES AND PROFITABILITY WILL SUFFER. Breast augmentation and reconstruction, facial dermal fillers, and obesity intervention are elective procedures. Other than U.S. federally mandated insurance reimbursement for post-mastectomy reconstructive surgery, breast augmentations and other cosmetic procedures are not typically covered by insurance. Adverse changes in the economy may cause consumers to reassess their spending choices and reduce the demand for cosmetic surgery. This shift could have an adverse effect on our sales and profitability. Reimbursement for obesity surgery, including use of our products, is available to various degrees in most of our international markets. In the United States, reimbursements by insurance plans are increasing, but reimbursement is not widely available to all insured patients at this time. Adverse changes in the economy could have an adverse effect on consumer spending and governmental health care resources. This shift could have an adverse effect on the sales and profitability of our obesity intervention business. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO CONTINUE TO DEVELOP AND MARKET NEW PRODUCTS AND TECHNOLOGIES, WE MAY EXPERIENCE A DECREASE IN DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS OR OUR PRODUCTS COULD BECOME OBSOLETE. The health care industry is highly competitive and is subject to significant and rapid technological change. We believe that our ability to respond quickly to consumer needs or advances in medical technologies, without compromising product quality, is crucial to our success. We are continually engaged in product development and improvement programs to maintain and improve our competitive position. We cannot, however, guarantee that we will be successful in enhancing existing products or developing new products or technologies that will timely achieve regulatory approval or receive market acceptance. There is also a risk that our products may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients and the medical community generally. The degree of market acceptance of any medical device or other product that we develop will depend on a number of factors, including demonstrated clinical efficacy and safety, cost-effectiveness, potential advantages over alternative products, and our marketing and distribution capabilities. Physicians will not recommend our products until clinical data or other factors demonstrate their safety and efficacy compared to other competing products. Even if the clinical safety and efficacy of using our products is established, physicians may elect not to recommend using them for any number of other reasons, including whether our products best meet the particular needs of the individual patient. Our products compete with a number of other products manufactured by major health care companies, and may also compete with new products currently under development by others. If our new products do not achieve significant market acceptance, or if our current products are not able to continue competing successfully in the changing market, our revenue and earnings may not grow as much as expected or may even decline. 20 IF CLINICAL TRIALS FOR OUR PRODUCTS ARE UNSUCCESSFUL OR DELAYED, WE WILL BE UNABLE TO MEET OUR ANTICIPATED DEVELOPMENT AND COMMERCIALIZATION TIMELINES, WHICH COULD CAUSE OUR STOCK PRICE TO DECLINE. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any products, we must demonstrate through pre-clinical testing and clinical trials that our products are safe and effective for use in humans. Conducting clinical trials is a lengthy, time-consuming and expensive process. Completion of clinical trials may take several years or more. Our commencement and rate of completion of clinical trials may be delayed by many factors, including: · lack of efficacy during the clinical trials; · unforeseen safety issues; · slower than expected patient recruitment; and · government or regulatory delays. The results from pre-clinical testing and early clinical trials are often not predictive of results obtained in later clinical trials. A number of new products have shown promising results in clinical trials, but subsequently failed to establish sufficient safety and efficacy data to obtain necessary regulatory approvals. Data obtained from pre-clinical and clinical activities are susceptible to varying interpretations, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. In addition, regulatory delays or rejections may be encountered as a result of many factors, including perceived defects in the design of the clinical trials and changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development. Any delays in, or termination of, our clinical trials will materially and adversely affect our development and commercialization timelines, which would cause our stock price to decline. IF OUR COLLABORATIVE PARTNERS DO NOT PERFORM, WE WILL BE UNABLE TO DEVELOP AND MARKET PRODUCTS AS ANTICIPATED. We have entered into collaborative arrangements with third parties to develop and market certain products. We cannot assure you that these collaborations will produce successful products. If we fail to maintain our existing collaborative arrangements or fail to enter into additional collaborative arrangements, the number of products from which we could receive future revenues would decline. Our dependence on collaborative arrangements with third parties subjects us to a number of risks. These collaborative arrangements may not be on terms favorable to us. Agreements with collaborative partners typically allow partners significant discretion in electing whether or not to pursue any of the planned activities. We cannot control the amount and timing of resources our collaborative partners may devote to products based on the collaboration, and our partners may choose to pursue alternative products. Our partners may not perform their obligations as expected. Business combinations, significant changes in a collaborative partner’s business strategy, or its access to financial resources may adversely affect a partner’s willingness or ability to complete its obligations under the arrangement. Moreover, we could become involved in disputes with our partners, which could lead to delays or termination of the collaborations and time-consuming and expensive litigation or arbitration. Even if we fulfill our obligations under a collaborative agreement, our partner can terminate the agreement under certain circumstances. If any collaborative partner were to terminate or breach our agreement with it, or otherwise fail to complete its obligations in a timely manner, our chances of successfully commercializing products would be materially and adversely affected. 21 OUR FAILURE TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN KEY MANAGERIAL, TECHNICAL, SELLING AND MARKETING PERSONNEL COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS Our success depends upon our retention of key managerial, technical, selling and marketing personnel. The loss of the services of key personnel might significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our development and strategic objectives. We do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our employees, and none of our employees is under any obligation to continue providing services to Inamed. We must continue to attract, train and retain managerial, technical, selling and marketing personnel. Competition for such highly skilled employees in our industry is high, and we cannot be certain that we will be successful in recruiting or retaining such personnel. We also believe that our success depends to a significant extent on the ability of our key personnel to operate effectively, both individually and as a group. If we are unable to identify, hire and integrate new employees in a timely and cost-effective manner, our operating results may suffer. IF OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS DO NOT ADEQUATELY PROTECT OUR PRODUCTS OR TECHNOLOGIES, OTHERS COULD COMPETE AGAINST US MORE DIRECTLY, WHICH WOULD HURT OUR PROFITABILITY. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patents or rights to patents, protect trade secrets, operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others, and prevent others from infringing on our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights. We will be able to protect our intellectual property from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that it is covered by valid and enforceable patents, trademarks and licenses. Patent protection generally involves complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, enforceability of patent rights cannot be predicted with certainty. Patents, if issued, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Thus, any patents that we own or license from others may not provide adequate protection against competitors. In addition, our pending and future patent applications may fail to result in patents being issued. Also, those patents that are issued may not provide us with adequate proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar technologies. Moreover, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In addition to patents and trademarks, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how. We seek protection of these rights, in part, through confidentiality and proprietary information agreements. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection or adequate remedies for violation of our rights in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential and proprietary information. Failure to protect our proprietary rights could seriously impair our competitive position. IF THIRD PARTIES CLAIM WE ARE INFRINGING THEIR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS, WE COULD SUFFER SIGNIFICANT LITIGATION OR LICENSING EXPENSES OR BE PREVENTED FROM MARKETING OUR PRODUCTS. Our commercial success depends significantly on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other proprietary rights of others. However, regardless of our intent, our technologies may infringe the patents or violate other proprietary rights of third parties. In the event of such infringement or violation, we may face litigation, become subject to damages, and may be prevented from selling existing products and pursuing product development or commercialization. At present, we are a party in one such matter. See Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings, Patents and License Litigation, Manders Matter. 22 WE DEPEND ON A SOLE OR LIMITED NUMBER OF SUPPLIERS FOR CERTAIN PRODUCTS AND RAW MATERIALS AND THE LOSS OF ANY SUPPLIER COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO MANUFACTURE AND/OR SELL MANY OF OUR PRODUCTS. Loss of any supplier or interruption of such manufacturing processes could adversely affect our ability to manufacture and/or sell many of our products. We currently rely on a single supplier for silicone raw materials used in many of our products. Although we have an agreement with this supplier to transfer the necessary formulations to us in the event that it cannot meet our requirements, we cannot guarantee that we would be able to produce or obtain a sufficient amount of quality silicone raw materials in a timely manner. We depend on third party manufacturers for silicone molded components and silicone facial implants. We also depend on third party manufacturers for our facial aesthetics product lines with the exclusion of the bovine and human based collagen products. In addition, we currently rely on Immucor, Inc. for the supply of human collagen mesh, used in the production of CosmoDerm and CosmoPlast. Additionally, certain of our manufacturing processes are only performed at one location worldwide. OUR ABILITY TO SELL BOVINE COLLAGEN-BASED PRODUCTS COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED IF WE EXPERIENCE PROBLEMS WITH THE CLOSED HERD OF DOMESTIC CATTLE FROM WHICH WE DERIVE THESE PRODUCTS. We rely on two closed herds of domestic cattle that are kept apart from all other cattle for the production of our bovine collagen-based products. If these herds suffered a significant reduction or became unavailable to us, we would have a limited ability to access a supply of acceptable bovine collagen from a similarly segregated source. A significant reduction in the supply of bovine collagen could have a material adverse effect on our ability to sell bovine collagen-based products. OUR INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS EXPOSES US TO A NUMBER OF RISKS. Approximately 40% of our sales are derived from international operations. Accordingly, any material decrease in foreign sales would have a material adverse effect on our overall sales and profitability. Most of our international sales are denominated in U.S. dollars, Euros, or Japanese Yen. Depreciation or devaluation of the local currencies of countries where we sell our products may result in our products becoming more expensive in local currency terms, thus reducing demand. In addition, we manufacture and assemble the majority of our breast implant products and obesity intervention products in Ireland and in Costa Rica, therefore a large percentage of our operating expenses are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We cannot guarantee that we will not experience unfavorable currency fluctuation effects in future periods, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results. Our operations and financial results also may be significantly affected by other international factors, including: · foreign government regulation of our products; · product liability, intellectual property and other claims; · new export license requirements; · political or economic instability in our target markets; · trade restrictions; · changes in tax laws and tariffs; · inadequate protection of intellectual property rights in some countries; · managing foreign distributors, manufacturers and staffing; · managing foreign branch offices; and 23 · competition. If these risks actually materialize, our sales to international customers, as well as those U.S. customers that use products manufactured abroad, may decrease. HEALTHCARE REFORM LEGISLATION COULD MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. If any national healthcare reform or other legislation or regulations are passed that imposes limits on the number or type of medical procedures that may be performed or that has the effect of restricting a physician’s ability to select specific products for use in patient procedures, such changes could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products. In the U.S., there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of federal and state legislative and regulatory proposals to implement greater governmental control over the healthcare industry. These proposals create uncertainty as to the future of our industry and may have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise capital or to form collaborations. In a number of foreign markets, the pricing and profitability of healthcare products are subject to governmental influence or control. In addition, legislation or regulations that impose restrictions on the price that may be charged for healthcare products or medical devices may adversely affect our sales and profitability. IF OUR USE OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS RESULTS IN CONTAMINATION OR INJURY, WE COULD SUFFER SIGNIFICANT FINANCIAL LOSS. Our manufacturing and research activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident or environmental discharge, we may be held liable for any resulting damages, which may exceed our financial resources. OUR STOCK PRICE HAS BEEN VOLATILE AND OUR TRADING VOLUME HAS HISTORICALLY BEEN LOWER THAN THAT OF MANY NASDAQ LISTED STOCKS. The trading price of our common stock has been, and may be, subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: · quarter-to-quarter variations in our operating results; · the results of testing, technological innovations, or new commercial products by us or our competitors; · governmental actions, regulations, rules, and orders; · general conditions in the healthcare, medical device, or plastic surgery industries; · changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts; · developments and litigation concerning patents or other intellectual property rights; · litigation or public concern about the safety of our products; and · resignation of senior officers. Historically, the daily trading volume of our common stock has been relatively low compared to that of many other NASDAQ listed stocks. We cannot guarantee that an active public market for our common stock will be sustained or that the average trading volume will remain at present levels or increase. In addition, the stock market in general and the NASDAQ National Market in particular experience significant price and volume fluctuations. Volatility in the market price for particular companies has often 24 been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Broad market factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In addition, securities class action litigation has often been initiated following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs, potential liabilities, and the diversion of management’s attention and resources. LITIGATION MAY HARM OUR BUSINESS OR OTHERWISE DISTRACT OUR MANAGEMENT. Substantial, complex or extended litigation could cause us to incur large expenditures and distract our management. For example, lawsuits by employees, stockholders, customers, or competitors could be very costly and substantially disrupt our business. Disputes from time to time with such companies or individuals are not uncommon, and we cannot assure you that that we will always be able to resolve such disputes out of court or on terms favorable to us. OUR PUBLICLY-FILED SEC REPORTS ARE REVIEWED BY THE SEC FROM TIME TO TIME AND ANY SIGNIFICANT CHANGES REQUIRED AS A RESULT OF ANY SUCH REVIEW MAY RESULT IN MATERIAL LIABILITY TO US AND HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE IMPACT ON THE TRADING PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK. The reports of publicly-traded companies are subject to review by the SEC from time to time for the purpose of assisting companies in complying with applicable disclosure requirements and to enhance the overall effectiveness of companies public filings, and comprehensive reviews of such reports are now required at least every three years under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. SEC reviews may be initiated at any time. While we believe that our previously filed SEC reports comply, and we intend that all future reports will comply in all material respects with the published rules and regulations of the SEC, we could be required to modify or reformulate information contained in prior filings as a result of an SEC review. Any modification or reformulation of information contained in such reports could be significant and result in material liability to us and have a material adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have no unresolved staff comments. 