Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following information in addition to other information in this report before you decide to purchase our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently deem to be material and that we believe are specific to our company and our industry. In addition to these risks, our business may be subject to risks currently unknown to us. If any of these or other risks actually occur, our business may be adversely affected, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment in Websense. Volatility in the global economy may adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. The global economy has experienced a period of unprecedented volatility characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from governments and regulatory agencies worldwide. We believe that financial distress and associated headcount reductions implemented by certain of our end user customers have caused these customers to choose shorter contract durations and/or reduce the number of seats under subscription and in some cases, have caused customers not to renew contracts at all. While the number of distressed customers appears to have stabilized, we expect this trend to continue until there is a broad worldwide economic recovery and positive job growth. These trends have negatively impacted the duration and scope of contract renewals and, in some cases, resulted in customer losses. Our average contract duration may be volatile as we seek contract renewals without eroding our 15 Table of Contents average contract price, which may result in a shortening of our average contract duration. Credit markets may also adversely affect our resellers through whom our distributors distribute products and limit the credit value-added resellers may extend to their customers. The volatility of currency exchange rates can also significantly affect sales of our products denominated in foreign currencies. In addition, events in the global financial markets may make it difficult for us to access the credit markets or to obtain additional financing or refinancing, if needed, on satisfactory terms or at all. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could materially affect our financial results. A significant portion of our foreign subsidiaries’ operating expenses are incurred in foreign currencies so if the U.S. dollar weakens, our consolidated operating expenses would increase. Should the U.S. dollar strengthen, our products may become more expensive for our international customers with subscription contracts denominated in U.S. dollars, and as a result, our results of operations and net cash flows from international operations may be adversely affected, especially if international sales grow as a percentage of our total sales. Changes in currency rates also impact our future revenue under subscription contracts that are not denominated in U.S. dollars as we bill certain international customers in Euros, British Pounds, Australian Dollars and Chinese Renminbi. Our revenue and deferred revenue for these currencies are recorded in U.S. dollars when the subscription begins based upon currency exchange rates in effect on the last day of the previous month before the subscription agreement is entered into. This accounting policy increases our risks associated with fluctuations in currency exchange rates since we cannot be assured of receiving the same U.S. dollar equivalent as when we bill exclusively in U.S. dollars. If there is a strong U.S. dollar at the time a subscription begins, we experience a reduction in subscription amounts as recorded in U.S. dollars relative to the foreign currency in which the subscription was priced to the customer. As a result, the strengthening of the U.S. dollar for current sales would reduce our future revenue from these contracts, even though these foreign currencies may strengthen during the term of these subscriptions. Because currency exchange rates remain volatile, our future revenue could be adversely affected by currency fluctuations. We engage in currency hedging activities with the intent of limiting the risk of exchange rate fluctuations, but our foreign exchange hedging activities also involve inherent risks that could result in an unforeseen loss. If we fail to properly forecast our billings, expenses and currency exchange rates these hedging activities could have a negative impact. Our future success depends on our ability to sell new, renewal and upgraded subscriptions to our security products. Substantially all of our revenue for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was derived from new and renewal subscriptions to our Web filtering and Web security products primarily from enterprise customers, and we expect that a significant majority of our sales for 2011 will continue to be derived from our Web filtering and Web security products, including our Web Security Gateway sold with or without appliances. We expect sales of our DLP products; SaaS offerings; TRITON unified Web, data and email security solutions; and other products under development to comprise a relatively small portion of our revenue in 2011, but represent a meaningful portion of our sales growth in 2011. Our revenue growth is dependent on incremental sales of security products to new customers and to customers who upgrade products upon renewal, which must also offset declines in sales from the renewals of Web filtering subscriptions and declines in sales from OEM customers. If we cannot sufficiently increase our customer base with the addition of new customers and upgrade subscriptions for additional product offerings from existing customers or renew a sufficient number of customers, we will not be able to grow our business to meet expectations. Subscriptions for our Web security, data loss prevention and email security products typically have durations of 12, 24 or 36 months. Our revenue depends upon maintaining a high rate of sales of renewal subscriptions and adding additional product offerings to existing customers as well as new customer sales. Our 16 Table of Contents customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions upon expiration, and if they renew, they may elect to renew for a shorter duration than the previous subscription period. As a result of macroeconomic conditions, our customers may elect to renew subscriptions for shorter durations and may reduce their subscribed products due to contractions of work forces of their respective organizations. This may require increasingly costly sales efforts targeting senior management and other management personnel associated with our customers’ Internet and security infrastructure. We may not be able to maintain or continue to generate increasing revenue from existing customers. If our internal controls are not effective, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires companies to conduct a comprehensive evaluation of their internal control over financial reporting. To comply with this statute, we are required to document and test our internal control over financial reporting; our management is required to assess and issue a report concerning our internal control over financial reporting; and our independent registered public accounting firm is required to attest to and report on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. In our annual and quarterly reports (as amended) for the periods from December 31, 2008 through September 30, 2009, we reported material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting which related to our revenue recognition under OEM contracts and our computation of our income tax benefit for the year ended December 31, 2008. We took a number of actions to remediate these material weaknesses, which included reviewing and designing enhancements to certain of our controls and processes relating to revenue recognition and the computation of the income tax provision as well as conducting additional training in these areas. Based upon these remediation actions, management concluded that the material weaknesses described above were remediated as of December 31, 2009. However, in the fourth quarter of 2010, we determined that we made an error in the fourth quarter of 2009 in identifying the accurate cause of a $5.8 million variance in our deferred tax assets. As a result, we reassessed the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures for the year ended December 31, 2009 and the period from January 1, 2010 through September 30, 2010 and concluded that we continued to have a material weakness in the internal controls over the computation of our income tax provision. In the fourth quarter of 2010, we took additional remediation measures and tested the design and operating effectiveness of the newly implemented controls and concluded that the material weakness described above has been remediated as of December 31, 2010. Although we believe we have taken appropriate actions to remediate the material weaknesses we cannot assure you that we will not discover other material weaknesses applicable to both future and past reporting periods. The existence of one or more material weaknesses could result in errors in our financial statements, and substantial costs and resources may be required to rectify these or other internal control deficiencies. If we cannot produce reliable financial reports, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly, and our business and financial condition could be harmed. Failure of our newer security products, including our security gateway products, DLP products, SaaS security solutions and our V-series appliance platform, to achieve more widespread market acceptance will seriously harm our business particularly if Web Filtering products continue to commoditize. Our ability to generate revenue growth depends on our ability to diversify our offerings by successfully developing, introducing and gaining customer acceptance of our new products and services, particularly our security gateway offerings as our Web filtering products become more of a commodity. We now sell our next generation Web content gateway to address emerging Web 2.0 threats, Websense Web Security Gateway, as well as our V10000 and V5000 appliances pre-loaded with our software. We also sell the Websense Data Security Suite, our DLP offering for the data loss prevention market, Websense Hosted Web Security and Websense Hosted Email Security, our SaaS offerings, and Websense Email Security, our email filtering solution. We offer 17 Table of Contents our products with TRITON, our unified Web, data and email security solution, which combines our products into a single platform. We continue to develop and release products in accordance with our announced product roadmap. We may not be successful in achieving market acceptance of these or any new products that we develop and may be unsuccessful in obtaining incremental sales as a result. If our products fail to meet the needs of our existing and target customers, or if they do not compare favorably in price, features and performance to competing products, our operating results and our business will be significantly impaired. If we fail to continue to upgrade and diversify our products, we could lose revenue from renewal subscriptions for our Web filtering products as these products continue to suffer from commoditization. Our V-series appliance platform exposes us to risks inherent with the sale of hardware, to which we were not previously exposed as a software company. With the launch of our V10000 appliance in 2009 and the release of our V5000 appliance in June 2010, we are selling products that are hardware-based and not solely software-based. Our V-series appliances are manufactured by a third-party contract manufacturer, and a third-party logistics company is providing logistical services, including product configuration and shipping. Our ability to deliver our V-series appliances to our customers could be delayed if we fail to effectively manage our third-party relationships or if our contract manufacturer or logistics provider experiences delays, disruptions or quality control problems in manufacturing, configuring or shipping the appliances. If our third-party providers fail for any reason to manufacture and deliver the V-series appliances with acceptable quality, in the required volumes, and in a cost-effective and timely manner, it could be costly to us, as well as disruptive to product shipments. In addition, supply disruptions or cost increases could increase our cost of goods sold and negatively impact our financial performance. Our V-series appliance platforms may also face greater obsolescence risks than our pure software products. Our revenue is derived almost entirely from sales through indirect channels and we depend upon these channels to create demand for our products. Our revenue has been derived almost entirely from sales through indirect channels, including value-added resellers, distributors that sell our products to end-users, providers of managed Internet services and other resellers. Although we rely upon these indirect channels of distribution, we also depend upon our internal sales force to generate sales leads and sell products through the reseller network. Ingram Micro, one of our broad-line distributors in North America, accounted for approximately 31%, 30% and 23% of our revenues during fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In addition, we began using Arrow Electronics as an additional broadline distributor in North America in 2010. Should Ingram Micro or Arrow Electronics experience financial difficulties, difficulties in collecting their accounts receivable or otherwise delay or prevent our collection of accounts receivable from them, our revenue and cash flow would be adversely affected. Also, should our resellers be subject to credit limits or have financial difficulties that limit financing terms available to them, our revenue and cash flow could be adversely affected. Our indirect sales model involves a number of additional risks, including: • our resellers and distributors are not subject to minimum sales requirements or any obligation to market our products to their customers; • we cannot control the level of effort our resellers and distributors expend or the extent to which any of them will be successful in marketing and selling our products; • we cannot assure that our channel partners will market and sell our newer product offerings such as our security-oriented offerings, our Web Security Gateway, our V-series appliances, our DLP offerings, our SaaS security products or our Websense TRITON solutions; • our reseller and distributor agreements are generally nonexclusive and may be terminated at any time without cause; and • our resellers and distributors frequently market and distribute competing products and may, from time to time, place greater emphasis on the sale of these products due to pricing, promotions and other terms offered by our competitors. 18 Table of Contents Our ability to meaningfully increase the amount of our products sold through our sales channels also depends on our ability to adequately and efficiently support these channel partners with, among other things, appropriate financial incentives to encourage pre-sales investment and sales tools, such as sales training, technical training and product materials needed to support their customers and prospects. The diversity and sophistication of our product offerings have required us to focus on additional sales and technical training, and we are making increased investments in this area. Additionally, we are continually evaluating the changes to our internal ordering and partner management systems in order to effectively execute our two-tier distribution strategy. Any failure to properly and efficiently support our sales channels will result in lost sales opportunities. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly, and these fluctuations may cause our stock price to fall. Our quarterly operating results have varied significantly in the past, and will likely vary in the future. Many of these variations come from macroeconomic and seasonal changes causing fluctuations in our billings, operating expenses and tax provisions. Although a significant portion of our revenue in any quarter comes from previously deferred revenue, a meaningful portion of our revenue in any quarter depends on the number, size and length of subscriptions to our products that are sold in that quarter. In addition, we have become increasingly dependent upon large orders which have a significant effect on our operating results during the quarter in which we receive them. The timing of such orders or the loss of an order is difficult to predict and the timing of revenue recognition from such orders may affect period to period changes. Changes in revenue recognition rules regarding sales of our appliances may cause some unpredictability in our quarterly revenue results as revenue for sales of appliances and the related costs will generally be recognized when the appliances are sold as opposed to being recognized ratably over the subscription term. The unpredictability of quarterly fluctuations is further increased by the fact that a significant portion of our quarterly sales have historically been generated during the last month of each fiscal quarter, with many of the largest enterprise customers purchasing subscriptions to our products nearer to the end of the last month of each quarter. Further, an increasing portion of our billings are attributable to larger subscriptions ($1 million or more), so delays in completing agreements before the end of a quarter may cause a material failure to meet our billings guidance for the quarter. Our operating expenses may increase in the future if we expand our selling and marketing activities, increase our research and development efforts or hire additional personnel which could impact our margins. In addition, our operating expenses historically have fluctuated, and may continue to fluctuate in the future, as the result of the factors described below and elsewhere in this annual report: • changes in currency exchange rates impacting our international operating expenses; • timing of marketing expenses for activities such as trade shows and advertising campaigns; • quarterly variations in general and administrative expenses, such as recruiting expenses and professional services fees; • increased research and development costs prior to new or enhanced product launches; and • fluctuations in expenses associated with commissions paid on sales of subscriptions to our products. Consequently, our results of operations may not meet the expectations of current or potential investors. If this occurs, the price of our common stock may decline. We face increasing competition from much larger software and hardware companies, which places pressure on our pricing and which could prevent us from increasing our revenue. In addition, as we increase our emphasis on our security-oriented products, we face competition from better-established security companies that have significantly greater resources. The market for our products is intensely competitive and is likely to become even more so in the future. Our current principal Web filtering competitors frequently offer their products at a significantly lower price than our 19 Table of Contents products, which has resulted in pricing pressures on sales of our basic Web filtering products and email filtering products and potentially could result in the commoditization of these products. We depend on our more advanced security products to replace and grow revenue from Web filtering subscriptions that are not renewed. We also face current and potential competition from vendors of Internet servers, operating systems and networking hardware, many of which now, or may in the future, develop and/or bundle competitive products with their current products with no price increase to these current products. Increased competition may cause price reductions or a loss of market share, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to maintain the current pricing on sales of our products or increase our pricing in the future, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. Even if our products provide greater functionality and are more effective than certain other competitive products, potential customers might accept this limited functionality. In addition, our own indirect sales channels may decide to develop or sell competing products instead of our products. Pricing pressures and increased competition generally could result in reduced sales, reduced margins or the failure of our products to achieve or maintain widespread market acceptance, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our current principal competitors include: • companies offering Web filtering and Web security solutions, such as Microsoft, McAfee (to be acquired by Intel Corporation), Trend Micro, Google, Webroot/BrightCloud, SafeNet/Aladdin, FaceTime, EdgeWave, M86 Security, Clearswift, Checkpoint, Sophos, Kaperskey Lab, AhnLab Inc., IBM, Panda Security SafeNet, F-Secure, Commtouch and CA (formerly Computer Associates); • companies integrating Web filtering into specialized security appliances, such as Blue Coat Systems, Cisco Systems/Ironport, McAfee, Check Point Software, EdgeWave, Barracuda Networks, Trend Micro, SonicWALL, Sophos, IBM, Panda Software, Fortinet and M86 Security; • companies offering DLP solutions, such as Symantec, Verdasys, Trustwave, EMC, McAfee, IBM, Trend Micro, Proofpoint, Palisade Systems, CA, Raytheon, Intrusion, Fidelis, GTB Technologies, Workshare, Check Point Software and Code Green Networks; • companies offering messaging or email security solutions, such as McAfee, Symantec/Message Labs, Google, Cisco Systems, Barracuda Networks, SonicWALL, Trend Micro, Axway, Sophos, Microsoft, Proofpoint, Clearswift, Commtouch, Zix Corporation, WatchGuard, M86 Security, Webroot and Fortinet; • companies offering on-demand email and Web security services, such as Google, Microsoft, Symantec/Message Labs, McAfee, Webroot/Bright Cloud, EdgeWave, Barracuda Networks, Zscaler, Trend Micro and Cisco Systems/ScanSafe; • companies offering desktop security solutions, such as Check Point Software, Cisco Systems, McAfee, Microsoft, Symantec, CA, Sophos, Webroot, IBM and Trend Micro; and • companies offering Web gateway solutions, such as Microsoft, Blue Coat Systems, Cisco Systems, Trend Micro, Check Point Software, McAfee, Juniper Networks, Optinet, Safe Net/Aladdin, M86 Security, Clearswift, CA, FaceTime and Barracuda Networks. As we develop and market our products with an increasing security-oriented emphasis, we also face growing competition from security solutions providers. Many of our competitors within the Web security market, such as Symantec, McAfee (to be acquired by Intel Corporation), Trend Micro, Cisco Systems, Google and Microsoft enjoy substantial competitive advantages, including: • greater name recognition and larger marketing budgets and resources; • established marketing relationships and access to larger customer bases; and • substantially greater financial, technical and other resources. 20 Table of Contents As a result, we may be unable to gain sufficient traction as a provider of Web security solutions, and our competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or devote greater resources to the development, marketing, promotion and sale of their products than we can. Current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase the functionality and market acceptance of their products or may be acquired by a corporation with significantly greater resources. In addition, our competitors may be able to replicate our products, make more attractive offers to existing and potential employees and strategic partners, develop new products or enhance existing products and services more quickly. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. In addition, many of our competitors made recent acquisitions in some of our product areas, and, we expect competition to increase as a result of this industry consolidation. Through an acquisition, a competitor could bundle separate products to include functions that are currently provided primarily by our Web and data loss prevention solutions and sell the combined product at a lower cost which could essentially include, at no additional cost, the functionality of our stand-alone solutions. For all of the foregoing reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully against our current and future competitors. The covenants in our credit facility restrict our financial and operational flexibility, including our ability to complete additional acquisitions and invest in new business opportunities. In October 2010, we announced that we had entered into a senior credit facility (the “2010 Credit Agreement”) and used the initial proceeds to repay our term loan and retire the 2007 amended and restated senior secured credit facility (the “2007 Credit Agreement”). The 2010 Credit Agreement contains affirmative and negative covenants, including an obligation to maintain a certain consolidated leverage ratio and consolidated interest coverage ratio and restrictions on our ability to borrow money, to incur liens, to enter into mergers and acquisitions, to make dispositions, to pay cash dividends or repurchase capital stock, and to make investments, subject to certain exceptions. An event of default under the 2010 Credit Agreement could allow the lenders to declare all amounts outstanding with respect to the agreement to be immediately due and payable. The 2010 Credit Agreement is secured by substantially all of our assets, including pledges of stock of certain of our subsidiaries (subject to limitations in the case of foreign subsidiaries) and by secured guarantees by our domestic subsidiaries. If the amount outstanding under the 2010 Credit Agreement is accelerated, the lenders could proceed against those assets and stock. Any event of default, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our 2010 Credit Agreement also requires us to maintain specified financial ratios. Our ability to meet these financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure that we will meet those ratios. Our international operations involve risks that could increase our expenses, adversely affect our operating results and require increased time and attention of our management. We have significant operations outside of the United States, including research and development, sales and customer support. We have engineering operations in Reading, England; Beijing, China and Ra’anana, Israel. We plan to continue to expand our international operations, but such expansion is contingent upon the financial performance of our existing international operations as well as our identification of growth opportunities. Our international operations are subject to risks in addition to those faced by our domestic operations, including: • difficulties associated with managing a distributed organization located on multiple continents in greatly varying time zones; • potential loss of proprietary information due to misappropriation or laws that may be less protective of our intellectual property rights; • requirements of foreign laws and other governmental controls, including trade and labor restrictions and related laws that reduce the flexibility of our business operations; 21 Table of Contents • political unrest, war or terrorism, particularly in areas in which we have facilities; • difficulties in staffing, managing, and operating our international operations, including difficulties related to administering our stock plans in some foreign countries; • difficulties in coordinating the activities of our geographically dispersed and culturally diverse operations; • restrictions on our ability to repatriate cash from our international subsidiaries or to exchange cash in international subsidiaries into cash available for use in the United States; and • costs and delays associated with developing software in multiple languages. Sales to customers outside the United States have accounted for a significant portion of our revenue, which exposes us to risks inherent in international sales. We market and sell our products outside the United States through value-added resellers, distributors and other resellers. International sales represented 50% of our total revenues generated during both fiscal years 2010 and 2009, and 46% during 2008. As a key component of our business strategy to generate new business sales, we intend to continue to expand our international sales, but success cannot be assured. In addition to the risks associated with our domestic sales, our international sales are subject to the following risks: • our ability to adapt to sales and marketing practices and customer requirements in different cultures; • our ability to successfully localize software products for a significant number of international markets; • the significant presence of some of our competitors in some international markets; • laws and business practices favoring local competitors; • dependence on foreign distributors and their sales channels; • longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • compliance with multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations, including tax laws and regulations and consumer protection and privacy laws; and • regional economic and political conditions, including civil unrest and adverse economic conditions in emerging markets with significant growth potential. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our international sales. Any reduction in international sales, or our failure to further develop our international distribution channels, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to develop acceptable new products or enhancements to our existing products at a rate required by our rapidly changing market. Our future success depends on our ability to develop new products or enhancements to our existing products that keep pace with rapid technological developments and that address the changing needs of our customers. Although our products are designed to operate with a variety of network hardware and software platforms, we will need to continuously modify and enhance our products to keep pace with changes in Internet-related hardware, software, communication, browser and database technologies. We may not be successful in either developing such products or introducing them to the market in a timely fashion. In addition, uncertainties about the timing and nature of new network platforms or technologies, or modifications to existing platforms or technologies could increase our research and development expenses. The failure of our products to operate effectively with the existing and future network platforms and technologies will limit or reduce the market for our products, result in customer dissatisfaction and seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. 22 Table of Contents Because our products primarily manage access to URLs and executable files included in our databases, if our databases do not contain a meaningful portion of relevant content, the effectiveness of our Web filtering products will be significantly diminished. Any failure of our databases to keep pace with the rapid growth and technological change of the Internet, such as the increasing amount of multimedia content on the Internet that is not easily classified, will impair the market acceptance of our products. We rely upon a combination of automated filtering technology and human review to categorize URLs and executable files in our proprietary databases. Our customers may not agree with our determinations that particular URLs and executable files should be included or not included in specific categories of our databases. In addition, it is possible that our filtering processes may place objectionable or security risk material in categories that are generally unrestricted by our users’ Internet and computer access policies, which could result in such material not being blocked from the network. Any errors in categorization could result in customer dissatisfaction and harm our reputation. Any failure to effectively categorize and filter URLs and executable files according to our customers’ expectations could impair the growth of our business. Our databases and database technologies may not be able to keep pace with the growth in the number of URLs and executable files, especially the growing amount of content utilizing foreign languages and the increasing sophistication of malicious code and the delivery mechanisms associated with spyware, phishing and other hazards associated with the Internet. The success of our dynamic Web categorization capabilities may be critical to our customers’ long term acceptance of our products. We may spend significant time and money on research and development to enhance our TRITON management console, V-series appliances, content gateway products, DLP products and our SaaS security products. If these products fail to achieve broad market acceptance in our target markets, we may be unable to generate significant revenue from our research and development efforts. As a result, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely impacted. If we fail to maintain adequate operations infrastructure, we may experience disruptions of our SaaS offerings. Any disruption to our technology infrastructure or the Internet could harm our operations and our reputation among our customers. Our technology and network infrastructure is extensive and complex, and could result in inefficiencies or operational failures. These potential inefficiencies or operational failures could diminish the quality of our products, services, and user experience, resulting in damage to our reputation and loss of current and potential subscribers, and could harm our operating results and financial condition. Any disruption to our computer systems could adversely impact the performance of our SaaS offerings and hybrid service offerings, our customer service, our delivery of products or our operations and result in increased costs and lost opportunities for business. Failure of our products to work properly or misuse of our products could impact sales, increase costs, and create risks of potential negative publicity and legal liability. Our products are complex, are deployed in a wide variety of network environments and manage content in a dramatically changing Web 2.0 world. Our products may have errors or defects that users identify after deployment, which could harm our reputation and our business. In addition, products as complex as ours frequently contain undetected errors when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. We have from time to time found errors in versions of our products, and we expect to find such errors in the future. Because customers rely on our products to manage employee behavior to protect against security risks and prevent the loss of sensitive data, including confidential and proprietary information, any significant defects or errors in our products may result in negative publicity or legal claims. For example, an actual or perceived breach of network or computer security at one of our customers, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products, could adversely affect the market’s perception of our security products. Moreover, any actual security breach could result in product liability and related claims. Our subscription agreements with our customers typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims, however, it is possible, that such provisions may not be effective under the laws of certain jurisdictions, particularly in circumstances involving subscriptions without signed agreements from our customers. 23 Table of Contents In addition to the risks above, parties whose Web sites or executable files are placed in security-risk categories or other categories with negative connotations may seek redress against us for falsely labeling them or for interfering with their business. The occurrence of errors could adversely affect sales of our products, divert the attention of engineering personnel from our product development efforts and cause significant customer relations or legal problems. Our products may also be misused or abused by customers or non-customer third parties who obtain access to our products. These situations may arise where an organization uses our products in a manner that impacts their end users’ or employees’ privacy or where our products are misappropriated to censor private access to the Internet. Any of these situations could result in negative press coverage and negatively affect our reputation. The amount of our debt outstanding may prevent us from taking actions we would otherwise consider in our best interest. In October 2010 we announced that we had entered into the 2010 Credit Agreement and that we used the initial proceeds to repay the term loans and retire the 2007 Credit Agreement. Under the 2010 Credit Agreement, we can borrow $120 million and use proceeds to fund share repurchases or other corporate purposes. We may increase the maximum aggregate commitment under the 2010 Credit Agreement to $200 million if certain conditions are satisfied, including that we are not in default under the 2010 Credit Agreement at the time of the increase and that we obtain the commitment of the lenders participating in the increase. If we should need to increase the aggregate commitment, it may not be possible to satisfy these conditions. The limitations our 2010 Credit Agreement imposes on us could have important consequences, including: • it may be difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under the 2010 Credit Agreement; • we may be less able to obtain other debt financing in the future; • we could be less able to take advantage of significant business opportunities, including acquisitions or divestitures, as a result of debt covenants; • our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions could be increased; and • we could be at a competitive disadvantage to competitors with less debt. We face risks related to customer outsourcing to system integrators. Some of our customers have outsourced the management of their information technology departments to large system integrators. If this trend continues, our established customer relationships could be disrupted and our products could be displaced by alternative system and network protection solutions offered by system integrators. Significant product displacements could impact our revenue and have a material adverse effect on our business. Other vendors may include products similar to ours in their hardware or software and render our products obsolete. In the future, vendors of hardware and of operating system software or other software may continue to enhance their products or bundle separate products to include functions that are currently provided primarily by network security software. If network security functions become standard features of computer hardware or of operating system software or other software, our products may become obsolete and unmarketable, particularly if the quality of these network security features is comparable to that of our products. Furthermore, even if the network security and/or management functions provided as standard features by hardware providers or operating systems or other software is more limited than that of our products, our customers might accept this limited functionality in lieu of purchasing additional software. Sales of our products would suffer materially if we were then unable to develop new Web filtering, security and DLP products to further enhance operating systems or other software and to replace any obsolete products. 24 Table of Contents Our worldwide income tax provisions and other tax accruals may be insufficient if any taxing authorities assume taxing positions that are contrary to our positions and those contrary positions are sustained. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and for our accruals for state, federal and international income taxes together with transaction taxes such as sales tax, VAT and GST. In the ordinary course of a global business, there are many transactions for which the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Some of these uncertainties arise as a consequence of intercompany arrangements to share revenue and costs. In such arrangements there are uncertainties about the amount and manner of such sharing, which could ultimately result in changes once the arrangements are reviewed by taxing authorities. Although we believe that our approach to determining the amount of such arrangements is consistent with prevailing legislative interpretation, no assurance can be given that the final tax authority review of these matters will agree with our historical income tax provisions and other tax accruals. Such differences could have a material effect on our income tax provisions or benefits, or other tax accruals, in the period in which such determination is made, and consequently, on our results of operations for such period. From time to time, we are also audited by various state, federal and tax authorities of other countries in which we operate. Generally, the tax years 2005 through 2009 could be subject to examination by U.S. federal and most state tax authorities. We are currently under examination by the respective tax authorities for tax years 2005 to 2008 in the United States, for 2005 to 2008 in the United Kingdom and for 2006 to 2008 in Israel. We also have various other on-going audits in various stages of completion. No outcome for a particular audit can be determined with certainty prior to the conclusion of the audit and any appeals process. As each audit progresses and is ultimately concluded, adjustments, if any, will be recorded in our financial statements from time to time in light of prevailing facts based on our and the taxing authority’s respective positions on any disputed matters. We provide for potential tax exposures by accruing for uncertain tax positions based on judgment and estimates including historical audit activity. If the reserves are insufficient or we are not able to establish a reserve under GAAP prior to completion or during the progression of any audits, there could be an adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations when an audit assessment is made. In addition, our external costs of contesting and settling any dispute with the tax authorities could be substantial and adversely impact our financial position and results of operation. During the first quarter of 2010, we were informed by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) that they had completed their audit for the tax years ended December 31, 2005 through December 31, 2007. Accordingly, the IRS issued us a 30-day letter which outlined all of their proposed audit adjustments and required us to either accept the proposed adjustments, subject to future litigation, or file a formal administrative protest contesting those proposed adjustments within 30 days. The proposed adjustments relate primarily to the cost sharing arrangement between Websense, Inc. and our Irish subsidiary, including the amount of cost sharing buy-in, as well as to our claim of research and development tax credits and income tax deductions for equity compensation awarded to certain executive officers. The amount of additional tax proposed by the IRS totals approximately $19.0 million, of which $14.8 million relates to the amount of cost sharing buy-in, $2.5 million relates to research and development credits and $1.7 million relates to equity compensation awarded to certain executive officers. The total additional tax proposed excludes interest, penalties and state income taxes, each of which may be significant, and also excludes a potential reduction in tax on the Irish subsidiary. The proposed adjustments also do not include the future impact that changes in our cost sharing arrangement could have on our effective tax rate. We disagree with all of the proposed adjustments and have submitted a formal protest to the IRS for each matter. The IRS has acknowledged the receipt of our protest and has assigned our case to an IRS Appeals Officer. We are now awaiting an appointment with the assigned Appeals Officer. We intend to continue to defend our position on all of these matters, including through litigation if required. While the timing of the ultimate resolution of these matters cannot be reasonably estimated at this time, we may be required to make additional payments in order to resolve these matters. The IRS has identified and is aggressively pursuing cost sharing arrangements between domestic and international subsidiaries, including the amount of the buy-in, as a potential area for audit exposure for many 25 Table of Contents companies. If this matter is litigated and the position proposed by the IRS is sustained, our results of operations for periods when any new liability is incurred would be materially and adversely affected. We also cannot predict what impact an adverse result could have on our future income tax rate, which could adversely impact our results of operations. Any failure to protect our proprietary technology would negatively impact our business. Intellectual property is critical to our success, and we rely upon patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws in the United States and other jurisdictions as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology and our Websense brands. We rely on trade secrets to protect technology where we believe patent protection is not appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. While we require employees, collaborators and consultants to enter into confidentiality agreements, we cannot assure that these agreements will not be breached or that we will have adequate remedies for any breach. We may not be able to adequately protect our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure, or the lawful development by others of such information. Any intentional disruption and/or the unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information, via theft or a cyber attack, could adversely affect our competitive position, reputation, brand and future sales of our products. We have registered our trademarks in several countries and have registrations for the Websense trademark pending in several other countries. Effective trademark protection may not be available in every country where our products are available. Furthermore, any of our trademarks may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation. We currently have 22 patents issued in the United States and 21 patents issued internationally, and we may be unable to obtain further patent protection in the future. We have other pending patent applications in the United States and in other countries. We cannot ensure that: • we were the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications; • we were the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • any of our pending patent applications are not obvious or anticipated such that they will not result in issued patents; • others will not independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; • any patents issued to us will provide us with any competitive advantages or will not be challenged by third parties; • we will develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; or • the patents of others will not have a negative effect on our ability to do business. Furthermore, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain and can change over time. Effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available to us in every country in which our products are available. The laws of some foreign countries may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as U.S. laws, and mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights may be inadequate. As a result our means of protecting our proprietary technology and brands may not be adequate. Furthermore, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property, including the misappropriation or misuse of the content of our proprietary databases of URLs and executable files, and our ability to police that misappropriation or infringement is uncertain, particularly in countries outside of the United States. Any such infringement or misappropriation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 26 Table of Contents Third parties claiming that we infringe their proprietary rights could cause us to incur significant legal expenses that reduce our operating margins and/or prevent us from selling our products. The software and Internet industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, trademarks and copyrights and by frequent litigation based on allegations of patent infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. As we expand our product offerings in the data loss and security area where larger companies with large patent portfolios compete, the possibility of an intellectual property claim against us grows. We may receive claims that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of others, including claims regarding patents, copyrights and trademarks. For example, on July 12, 2010, Finjan, Inc. filed a complaint entitled Finjan, Inc. v. McAfee, Inc., Symantec Corp., Webroot Software, Inc., Websense, Inc. and Sophos, Inc. in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. The complaint alleges that our Web filtering and Web Security Gateway products infringe a patent owned by Finjan and seeks damages and injunctive relief. Any such claim, including Finjan’s claim, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation and distract management from day-to-day operations and may result in us deciding to enter into license agreements to avoid ongoing patent litigation costs. If we are not successful in defending such claims, we could be required to stop selling or redesign our products, pay monetary amounts as damages, enter into royalty or licensing arrangements, or satisfy indemnification obligations that we have with some of our customers. Such arrangements may cause operating margins to decline. Because we recognize revenue from subscriptions for our software products ratably over the term of the subscription, downturns in software subscription sales may not be immediately reflected in our revenue. Most of our revenue comes from the sale of subscriptions to our software products, including our SaaS offerings. Upon execution of a subscription agreement or receipt of royalty reports from OEM customers, we invoice our customers for the full term of the subscription agreement or for the period covered by the royalty report from OEM customers. We then recognize revenue from customers daily over the terms of their subscription agreements, or performance period under the OEM contract, as applicable, which, in the case of subscriptions, typically have durations of 12, 24 or 36 months. Even though new revenue recognition rules will result in our recognition of revenue from hardware sales in the current period that the sale is concluded, a majority of the revenue we report in each quarter will continue to be derived from deferred revenue from subscription agreements and OEM contracts entered into and paid for during previous quarters. Because of this financial model, the revenue we report in any quarter or series of quarters may mask significant downturns in sales and the market acceptance of our products, before these downturns are reflected by declining revenues. Acquired companies or technologies can be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and adversely affect our operating results. We may acquire additional companies, services and technologies in the future as part of our efforts to expand and diversify our business. Although we review the records of companies or businesses we are interested in acquiring, even an in-depth review may not reveal existing or potential problems or permit us to become familiar enough with a business to assess fully its capabilities and deficiencies. Integration of acquired companies may disrupt or slow the momentum of the activities of our business. As a result, if we fail to properly evaluate, execute and integrate future acquisitions, our business and prospects may be seriously harmed. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • difficulties in integrating operations, technologies, services and personnel of the acquired company; • potential loss of customers and OEM relationships of the acquired company; • diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations and core businesses; • risk of entering new markets; • potential loss of key employees of the acquired company; • integrating personnel with diverse business and cultural backgrounds; 27 Table of Contents • preserving the development, distribution, marketing and other important relationships of the companies; • assumption of liabilities of the acquired company, including debt and litigation; • inability to generate sufficient revenue from newly acquired products and/or cost savings needed to offset acquisition related costs; and • the continued use by acquired companies of accounting policies that differ from GAAP. Acquisitions may also cause us to: • issue equity securities that would dilute our current stockholders’ percentage ownership; • assume certain liabilities, including liabilities that were not detected at the time of the acquisition; • incur additional debt, such as the debt we incurred to partially fund the acquisition of SurfControl; • make large and immediate one-time write-offs for restructuring and other related expenses; • become subject to intellectual property or other litigation; and • create goodwill and other intangible assets that could result in significant impairment charges and/or amortization expense. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. The market price of our common stock has been and likely will continue to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors that are beyond our control, including: • deteriorating or fluctuating world economic conditions; • announcements of technological innovations or new products or services by our competitors; • demand for our products, including fluctuations in subscription renewals; • changes in the pricing policies of our competitors; and • changes in government regulations. In addition, the market price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to: • announcements of technological innovations or new products or services by us; • changes in our pricing policies; and • quarterly variations in our revenues and operating expenses. Further, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market price of the stock of many Internet-related companies, and that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Market fluctuations such as these may seriously harm the market price of our common stock. In the past, securities class action suits have been filed following periods of market volatility in the price of a company’s securities. If such an action were instituted, we would incur substantial costs and a diversion of management attention and resources, which would seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are dependent on our management team, and the loss of any key member of this team may prevent us from implementing our business plan in a timely manner. Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key management personnel and our ability to recruit new personnel to executive and key management positions. We are also substantially dependent on the continued service of our existing engineering personnel because of the complexity of our products and technologies. We do not have employment agreements with our executive 28 Table of Contents officers, key management or development personnel that would prevent them from terminating their employment with us at any time. We do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our employees. The loss of one or more of our key employees could seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. In such an event we may be unable to recruit personnel to replace these individuals in a timely manner, or at all, on acceptable terms. Because competition for our target employees is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled employees we need to support our planned growth. To execute our growth plan, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. We have from time to time in the past experienced, and we expect to continue to experience in the future, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. In order to attract and retain personnel in a competitive marketplace, we believe that we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash and equity-based compensation. The volatility of our stock price and our results of operations may from time to time adversely affect our ability to recruit or retain employees. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have. If we fail to attract new personnel or retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could be severely harmed. The restatement of our historical financial statements has already consumed, and may continue to consume, a significant amount of our time and resources and may have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. We have restated our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures for fiscal years ended December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009. The restatement process was highly time and resource-intensive and involved substantial attention from management and significant legal and accounting costs. Although we have now completed the restatement, we cannot guarantee that we will have no inquiries from the SEC or NASDAQ regarding our restated financial statements or matters relating thereto. Any future inquiries from the SEC as a result of the restatement of our historical financial statements will, regardless of the outcome, likely consume a significant amount of our resources in addition to those resources already consumed in connection with the restatement itself. Further, many companies that have been required to restate their historical financial statements have experienced a decline in stock price and stockholder lawsuits related to the restatement. We cannot guarantee that we will not be similarly affected. Compliance with regulation of corporate governance, accounting principles and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Compliance with laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance, accounting principles and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, and NASDAQ listing rules, have caused us to incur higher compliance costs and we expect to continue to incur higher compliance costs as a result of our increased global reach and obligation to ensure compliance with these laws as well as local laws in the jurisdictions where we do business. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time. Further guidance by regulatory and governing bodies can result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs related to the ongoing revisions to accounting, disclosure and governance practices. Our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may be harmed. 29 Table of Contents If we cannot effectively manage our internal growth, our business revenues, results of operations and prospects may suffer. If we fail to manage our internal growth in a manner that minimizes strains on our resources, we could experience disruptions in our operations that could negatively affect our revenue, billings and results of operations. We are pursuing a strategy of organic growth through implementation of two-tier distribution, international expansion, introduction of new products and expansion of our product sales to the SMB segment. Each of these initiatives requires an investment of our financial and employee resources and involves risks that may result in a lower return on our investments than we expect. These initiatives also may limit the opportunities we pursue or investments we would otherwise make, which may in turn impact our prospects. It may be difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as some provisions of Delaware law, may discourage, delay or prevent third parties from acquiring us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. For example, our certificate of incorporation provides that stockholders may not call stockholder meetings or act by written consent. Our bylaws provide that stockholders may not fill board vacancies and further provide that advance written notice is required prior to stockholder proposals. Each of these provisions makes it more difficult for stockholders to obtain control of our board or initiate actions that are opposed by the then current board. Additionally, we have authorized preferred stock that is undesignated, making it possible for the board to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock with voting or other rights and preferences that could impede the success of any attempted change of control. Delaware law also could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law has an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by our board, including discouraging attempts that might result in a premium over the market price of the shares of common stock held by our stockholders. Our 2010 Credit Agreement accelerates and becomes payable in full upon a change of control, which is defined generally as a person or group acquiring 35% of our voting securities or a proxy contest that results in changing a majority of our Board of Directors. These consequences may discourage third parties from attempting to acquire us. We do not intend to pay dividends. We have not declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock since we have been a publicly traded company. We currently intend to retain any future cash flows from operations to fund growth, pay down our senior credit facility and repurchase shares of our common stock, and therefore do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Moreover, we are not permitted to pay cash dividends under the terms of our senior secured credit facility. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 