ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to our Business We have a history of net losses and we may continue to generate net losses in the future. We have a history of net losses, and may continue to report net losses in the future. Although we reported net income of $13.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, we reported net losses of $62.5 million, $222.2 million, $124.9 and $95.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2005, 2006 and 2007 respectively. The principal reasons for our net losses were the depreciation and amortization expenses associated with our acquisitions, the capital expenditures related to expanding and upgrading our cable systems and interest costs on borrowed money. However, for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007, in addition to these factors, the increase in our valuation allowance for deferred tax assets (discussed below) increased our provision for income taxes and our net loss by a corresponding amount. Changes to our valuation account for deferred tax assets or impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets can cause our net income or net loss to fluctuate significantly. As of December 31, 2007, we had pre-tax net operating loss carryforwards for federal purposes of approximately $2.2 billion; if not utilized, they will expire in the years 2020 through 2027. Mostly due to these net operating loss carryforwards, as of December 31, 2007, we had deferred tax assets of $922.3 million. These assets have been reduced by a valuation allowance of $631.0 million to reflect our assessment of the likelihood of their recovery in future periods. We periodically assess the likelihood of realization of our deferred tax assets, considering all available evidence, both positive and negative, including our most recent performance, the scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities, our forecast of taxable income in future periods and the availability of prudent tax planning strategies. As a result of these assessments, in prior years we have established valuation allowances on a portion of our deferred tax assets due to the uncertainty surrounding the realization of these assets. We expect to add to our valuation allowance for any increase in the deferred tax liabilities relating to indefinite-lived intangible assets. We will also adjust our valuation allowance if we assess that there is sufficient change in our ability to recover our deferred tax assets. Our income tax expense in future periods will be reduced or increased to the extent of offsetting decreases or increases, respectively, in our valuation allowance. These changes could have a significant impact on our future earnings. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $2.0 billion of unamortized intangible assets, including goodwill of $220.7 million and franchise rights of $1.8 billion on our consolidated balance sheets. These intangible assets represented approximately 56% of our total assets. FASB Statement No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” requires that goodwill and other intangible assets deemed to have indefinite useful lives, such as cable franchise rights, cease to be amortized. SFAS No. 142 requires that goodwill and certain intangible assets be tested at least annually for impairment. If we find that the carrying value of goodwill or cable franchise rights exceeds its fair value, we will reduce the carrying value of the goodwill or intangible asset to the fair value, and will recognize an impairment loss in our results of operations. The impairment tests require us to make an estimate of the fair value of intangible assets, which is determined using a discounted cash flow methodology. Since a number of factors may influence determinations of fair value of intangible assets, we are unable to predict whether impairments of goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangibles will occur in the future. Any such impairment would result in our recognizing a corresponding write-off, which could cause us to report a significant loss. Such impairment could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unsuccessful in implementing our growth strategy. We currently expect that a substantial portion of our future growth in revenues will come from the expansion of relatively new services, the introduction of additional new services and, possibly, acquisitions. Relatively new services include HSD, VOD, DVRs, HDTV and phone service. We may not be able to successfully expand existing 22 Table of Contents services due to unpredictable technical, operational or regulatory challenges. It is also possible that these services will not generate significant revenue growth. The adverse effects on our business caused by increases in programming costs could continue or worsen. Historically, programming costs, our largest single expense category, have grown primarily because of annual increases in the fees we pay for the non-broadcast networks we carry and the costs of new non-broadcast networks that we add either to remain competitive or as a condition for obtaining better terms for the networks we already carry. In recent years, we have experienced a rapid rise in the cost of programming, particularly sports programming. Increases in programming costs are expected to continue, and any such cost increases that are not passed on fully to our subscribers have had, and will continue to have, an adverse impact on profit margins. We may lose existing or potential additional subscribers because of increases in the subscriber rates we institute to fully or partially offset growth in programming and other costs. We also face increasing financial and other demands by local broadcast stations to obtain the required consents for the transmission of their programming to our subscribers. This may accelerate the increase in programming costs. Federal law allows commercial television broadcast station owners to elect to prohibit cable operators as well as DBS providers from delivering their signal to subscribers without their permission, which is referred to as “retransmission consent.” In the past, we generally have obtained retransmission consent for stations in our markets without being required to provide consideration that did not result in some offsetting value to us. Most owners of multiple broadcast stations have become much more aggressive in demanding significant cash payments from us and other cable operators, DBS providers and local telephone companies. Consequently, we believe that the cost to secure retransmission consent in 2009 and beyond will rise significantly. In some cases, refusal to meet the demands of broadcast station owners could result in the loss of our ability to retransmit those stations to our subscribers. That could cause some of our existing or potential new subscribers to switch to, or choose, competitors which offer the stations. Similarly, if our contracts with non-broadcast networks expire and we are unable to negotiate prices that we think are reasonable, we may be denied the right to continue to deliver those networks and may suffer losses of subscribers to competitors which make them available. Our carriage of new non-broadcast networks, whether we add them to remain competitive or as a condition for obtaining better terms for the networks we already carry, has diminished the amount of capacity we have available to introduce new services. A continuation of these trends could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive business environment, which affects our ability to attract and retain customers and can adversely affect our business and operations. We have lost a significant number of video subscribers to direct broadcast satellite competition and this trend may continue. The industry in which we operate is highly competitive and is often subject to rapid and significant changes and developments in the marketplace and in the regulatory and legislative environment. In some instances, we compete against companies with fewer regulatory burdens, easier access to financing, greater resources and operating capabilities, greater brand name recognition and long-standing relationships with regulatory authorities and customers. Our video business faces competition primarily from DBS providers. The two largest DBS companies, DirecTV and DISH, are each the second and fourth largest providers of multichannel video programming services based on reported customers. In February 2008, Liberty acquired a controlling stake in DirecTV from News Corporation, which may alter this DBS provider’s competitive position. We have lost a significant number of video subscribers to DBS providers, and will continue to face significant challenges from them. DBS providers have a video offering that is, in some respects, similar to our video services, including DVR and some interactive capabilities. They also hold exclusive rights to programming such as the NFL that is not available to cable and other video providers. Both DirecTV and DISH have aggressively launched HD channel offerings with each currently 23 Table of Contents offering about 90 and 70 such channels, respectively. DirecTV has announced plans to have at least 100 HD channels by the end of 2008. Such extensive offerings of HD channels likely make these services even more competitive. Local telephone companies are capable of offering video and other services to compete with us and they may increasingly do so in the future. Certain telephone companies are actively deploying fiber more extensively in their networks and, in some cases, avoiding the regulatory burdens imposed on us. These deployments enable them to provide enhanced video, Internet access and telephone services to consumers. In 2006, the FCC issued an order that limits the ability of local franchising authorities to impose certain “unreasonable” requirements and effectively gives incumbent telephone providers, among others, the right to begin operation of a cable system no later than 90 days after filing a franchise application. Moreover, many of the states in which we operate offer state-issued video franchises that facilitate rapid entry into our markets without having comparable financial and service obligations. Certain telephone companies, together with DBS providers, have launched bundled offerings of satellite delivered video service with phone, Internet and wireless service delivered by the telephone companies. We face competition from municipal entities that provide video, internet and phone services. In Iowa, our largest market, ballot referenda were passed in 2005 in several municipalities to authorize the formation of a communications utility, a prerequisite to the funding and construction of facilities that may compete with ours. We are not aware that any of these communities has taken necessary action to authorize construction or funding of a competitive system. Some municipal entities are also exploring building wireless networks to deliver these services. In addition, we face competition on individual services from a range of providers. For instance, our video service faces competition from providers of paid television services (such as satellite master antenna services) and from video delivered over the Internet. Our high-speed data service faces competition from, among others, incumbent local telephone companies utilizing their newly-upgraded fiber networks and/or DSL lines, Wi-Fi, Wi-Max and 3G wireless broadband services provided by mobile carriers such as Verizon Wireless, broadband over power line providers, and from providers of traditional dial-up Internet access. Our voice service faces competition for voice customers from incumbent local telephone companies, cellular telephone service providers, Internet phone providers, such as Vonage, and others. As we face increase competition from any of these service providers, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. We face many risks inherent to our phone business, which is a relatively new service for us. We have been rapidly scaling our phone business over the past two years. Our customers expect the same quality from our phone product as delivered by our video and data services. In order to provide high quality service, we may need to increase spending on technology, equipment, technicians, and customer service representatives. If phone service is not sufficiently reliable or we otherwise fail to meet customer expectations, our phone business could be adversely affected. We face increasing competition from wireline and wireless service providers. We also depend on third parties for interconnection, call switching, and other related services to operate Mediacom Phone. As a result, the quality of our service may suffer if these third parties are not capable of handling their contractual obligations. We also expect to see changes in technology, competition, and the regulatory and legislative environment that may affect our phone business. We may experience difficulties as we introduce this service to new marketing areas or seek to increase the scale of the service in areas where it is already offered. Consequently, we are unable to predict the effect that current or future developments in these areas might have on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be found to infringe on intellectual property rights of others. Third parties have in the past, and may in the future, assert claims or initiate litigation related to exclusive patent, copyright, trademark, and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related standards that are relevant to us. These assertions have increased over time as a result of our growth and the general increase in the pace of patent claims assertions, particularly in the United States. Because of the existence of a large number of 24 Table of Contents patents in the networking field, the secrecy of some pending patents and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is not economically practical or even possible to determine in advance whether a product or any of its components infringes or will infringe on the patent rights of others. The asserted claims and/or initiated litigation can include claims against us or our manufacturers, suppliers, or customers, alleging infringement of their proprietary rights with respect to our existing or future products and/or services or components of those products and/or services. Regardless of the merit of these claims, they can be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel, or require us to develop a non-infringing technology or enter into license agreements. There can be no assurance that licenses will be available on acceptable terms and conditions, if at all, or that our indemnification by our suppliers will be adequate to cover our costs if a claim were brought directly against us or our customers. Furthermore, because of the potential for high court awards that are not necessarily predictable, it is not unusual to find even arguably unmeritorious claims settled for significant amounts. If any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us by any third party is successful, if we are required to indemnify a customer with respect to a claim against the customer, or if we fail to develop non-infringing technology or license the proprietary rights on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success is substantially dependent upon the retention of, and the continued performance by, our key personnel, including Rocco B. Commisso, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Our debt arrangements provide that a default may result if Mr. Commisso ceases to be our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, or if he and his designees do not constitute a majority of the Executive Committee of each of Mediacom LLC and Mediacom Broadband LLC. We have not entered into a long-term employment agreement with Mr. Commisso. We do not currently maintain key man life insurance on Mr. Commisso or other key personnel. If any of our key personnel ceases to participate in our business and operations, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of our cable systems operate in the Gulf Coast region, which historically has experienced severe hurricanes and tropical storms. Cable systems serving approximately 8% of our subscribers are located on or near the Gulf Coast in Alabama, Florida and Mississippi. In 2004 and 2005, three hurricanes impacted these cable systems, to varying degrees, causing property damage, service interruption and loss of customers. The Gulf Coast could experience severe hurricanes in the future. This could adversely impact our operations in affected areas, causing us to experience higher than normal levels of expense and capital expenditures, as well as the potential loss of customers and revenues. Inability to secure favorable relationships and trade terms with third party providers of products and services on which we depend may impair our ability to provision and service our customers. Third party firms provide some of the inputs used in delivering our products and services, including digital set-top converter boxes, digital video recorders and VOD equipment; routers, provisioning and other software; the telecommunications network and e-mail platform for our HSD and phone data services; fiber optic cable and construction services for expansion and upgrades of our cable systems; and our customer billing platform. Some of these companies may hold leverage over us, considering that they are the sole supplier of certain products and services. As a result, our operation depends on the successful operation of these companies. Any delays or disruptions in the relationship as a result of contractual disagreements, operational or financial failures on the part of the suppliers, or other adverse events, could negatively affect our ability to effectively provision and service our customers. Demand for some of these items has increased with the general growth in demand for Internet and telecommunications services. We typically do not carry significant inventories of equipment. Moreover, if there are no suppliers that are able to provide set-top converter boxes that comply with evolving Internet and telecommunications standards, or that are compatible with other equipment and software that we use, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 25 Table of Contents We may be unable to keep pace with technological change. Our industry is characterized by rapid technological change and the introduction of new products and services, some of which are bandwidth-intensive. We cannot be certain that we will be able to fund the capital expenditures necessary to keep pace with future technological developments or successfully anticipate the demand of our customers for products and services requiring new technology. This type of rapid technological change could adversely affect our ability to maintain, expand or upgrade our systems and respond to competitive pressures. With the use of high-bandwidth internet applications on the rise, we may have to spend capital to increase our bandwidth capabilities. Otherwise, our customers may experience less-than-optimal speeds and performance when using their broadband service. Extensive increases in bandwidth usage would significantly increase our costs. Inability to keep pace with technological change and provide advanced services in a timely manner, or to anticipate the demands of the market place, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on computer and network technologies, and may face disruptions in such systems. Because of the importance of computer networks and data transfer technologies to our business, any events affecting these systems could have devastating impact on our business. These events include computer viruses, damage to infrastructure by natural disasters, power loss and man-made disasters. Some adverse results of such occurrences are service disruptions, excessive service and repair requirements, loss of customers and revenues and negative publicity. We may also be negatively affected by illegal acquisition and dissemination of data and information. Risks Related to our Indebtedness and the Indebtedness of our Operating Subsidiaries Mediacom Communications Corporation, Mediacom Broadband LLC and Mediacom LLC are holding companies with no operations and if Mediacom Broadband LLC, Mediacom LLC and/or their operating subsidiaries are unable to make funds available to their respective parent companies, such parent companies may not be able to fund their indebtedness and other obligations. Mediacom Communications Corporation is a holding company and does not have any operations or hold any assets other than its investments in, and its advances to, its direct, wholly-owned subsidiaries, Mediacom Broadband LLC and Mediacom LLC. The various operating subsidiaries of Mediacom Broadband LLC and Mediacom LLC own our cable systems. Consequently, such operating subsidiaries conduct all of our consolidated operations and own substantially all of our consolidated assets. The only source of cash that Mediacom Communications Corporation, Mediacom Broadband LLC and Mediacom LLC have to fund their obligations (including, without limitation, the payment of interest on, and the repayment of principal of, their outstanding indebtedness) is the cash that the operating subsidiaries generate from their operations and from borrowing under the subsidiary credit facilities. The operating subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to make funds available to Mediacom Communications Corporation, Mediacom Broadband LLC or Mediacom LLC. The ability of our operating subsidiaries to make funds available to their respective parent companies, in the form of dividends, loans, advances or other payments, will depend upon the operating results of such subsidiaries and is subject to applicable laws and contractual restrictions, including covenants under the subsidiary credit facilities and the indentures governing our senior notes that restrict the ability of the obligors thereunder to make funds available to their respective parent companies. In the event of a liquidation or reorganization of any of our subsidiaries, the creditors of any of such subsidiaries, including trade creditors, would be entitled to a claim on the assets of such subsidiaries prior to any claims of the stockholders of any such subsidiaries, and those creditors are likely to be paid in full before any distribution is made to such stockholders. To the extent that Mediacom Communications Corporation, or any of its direct or indirect subsidiaries, is a creditor of another of our subsidiaries, the claims of such creditor could be subordinated to any security interest in the assets of such subsidiary and/or any indebtedness of such subsidiary senior to that held by such creditor. 26 Table of Contents We have substantial existing debt and have significant interest payment requirements, which could adversely affect our ability to obtain financing in the future, and require our operating subsidiaries to apply a substantial portion of their cash flow to debt service. As of December 31, 2007, our total debt was approximately $3.215 billion. Our gross interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2007, was $243.2 million. This high level of debt and our debt service obligations could have material consequences, including that: • our ability to access new sources of financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be limited; • we may need to use a large portion of our revenues to pay interest on borrowings under our subsidiary credit facilities and our senior notes, which will reduce the amount of money available to finance our operations, capital expenditures and other activities; • some of our debt has a variable rate of interest, which may expose us to the risk of increased interest rates; • we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business; • we may be less flexible in responding to changing business and economic conditions, including increased competition and demand for new products and services; • we may be at a disadvantage when compared to those of our competitors that have less debt leverage; and • we may not be able to fully implement our business strategy. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flows to permit us, or our subsidiaries, to repay indebtedness or that refinancing of that indebtedness will be possible on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Interest rates on our future borrowings may be much higher than our current interest rates, and we may not be able to raise additional debt financing on reasonable terms, or at all, if turmoil in the capital markets persist. A default under our indentures or our subsidiary credit facilities could result in an acceleration of our indebtedness and other material adverse effects. The agreements and instruments governing our subsidiaries’ indebtedness contain financial and operating covenants. The breach of any of these covenants could cause a default, which could result in the indebtedness becoming immediately due and payable. If this were to occur, we would be unable to adequately finance our operations. In addition, a default could result in a default or acceleration of our other indebtedness subject to cross-default provisions. If this occurs, we may not be able to pay our debts or borrow sufficient funds to refinance them. Even if new financing is available, it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us. The membership interests of our operating subsidiaries are pledged as collateral under our respective subsidiary credit facilities. A default under one of our subsidiary credit facilities could result in a foreclosure by the lenders on the membership interests pledged under that facility. Because we are dependent upon our operating subsidiaries for all of our cash flows, a foreclosure would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The terms of our indebtedness could materially limit our financial and operating flexibility. Several of the covenants contained in the agreements and instruments governing our indebtedness could materially limit our financial and operating flexibility by restricting, among other things, our ability and the ability of our operating subsidiaries to: • incur additional indebtedness; • create liens and other encumbrances; • pay dividends and make other payments, investments, loans and guarantees; • enter into transactions with related parties; • sell or otherwise dispose of assets and merge or consolidate with another entity; 27 Table of Contents • repurchase or redeem capital stock, other equity interests or debt; • pledge assets; and • issue capital stock or other equity interests. Complying with these covenants could cause us to take actions that we otherwise would not take or cause us not to take actions that we otherwise would take. We may not be able to obtain additional capital to fund future capital expenditures and continue the development of our business. Our business is capital intensive. Capital spending for our business was $227.4 million, $210.2 million and $228.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, including payments for customer premise equipment and related installation costs and network and infrastructure investments. We expect these capital expenditures to be significant over the next several years, as we continue to grow our video, HSD and phone customers. We may not be able to obtain the funds necessary to finance additional capital requirements through internally generated funds, additional borrowings or other sources. If we are unable to obtain these funds, we would not be able to implement our business strategy and our results of operations would be adversely affected. A lowering of the ratings assigned to our debt securities by ratings agencies may further increase our future borrowing costs and reduce our access to capital. Our debt ratings are below the investment grade category, which results in higher borrowing costs. There can be no assurance that our debt ratings will not be lowered in the future by a rating agency. A lowering in our debt ratings may further increase our future borrowing costs and reduce our access to capital. Risks Related to Legislative and Regulatory Matters Changes in cable television regulations could adversely impact our business. The cable television industry is subject to extensive legislation and regulation at the federal and local levels, and, in some instances, at the state level. Many aspects of such regulation are currently the subject of judicial and administrative proceedings and legislative and administrative proposals, and lobbying efforts by us and our competitors. We expect that court actions and regulatory proceedings will continue to refine our rights and obligations under applicable federal, state and local laws. The results of these judicial and administrative proceedings and legislative activities may materially affect our business operations. Local authorities grant us non-exclusive franchises that permit us to operate our cable systems which we renew or renegotiate from time to time. Local franchising authorities may demand concessions, or other commitments, as a condition to renewal, and these concessions or other commitments could be costly. The Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984 (“Communications Act”) contains renewal procedures and criteria designed to protect incumbent franchisees against arbitrary denials of renewal, and although such Act requires the local franchising authorities to take into account the costs of meeting such concessions or commitments, there is no assurance that we will not be compelled to meet their demands in order to obtain renewals. We cannot predict whether any of the markets in which we operate will expand the regulation of our cable systems in the future or the impact that any such expanded regulation may have upon our business. Similarly, due to the increasing popularity and use of commercial online services and the Internet, certain aspects have become subject to regulation at the federal and state level, such as the collection of information online from children, disclosure of certain subscriber information to governmental agencies, commercial emails or “spam,” privacy, security and distribution of material in violation of copyrights. In addition to the possibility that additional federal laws and regulations may be adopted with respect to commercial online services and the Internet, several individual states have imposed such restrictions and others may also impose similar restrictions, potentially creating an intricate patchwork of laws and regulations. Future federal and/or state laws may cover such issues as privacy, access to some types of content by minors, pricing, encryption standards, consumer protection, electronic commerce, taxation of e-commerce, copyright infringement and other intellectual property matters. The adoption 28 Table of Contents of such laws or regulations in the future may decrease the growth of such services and the Internet, which could in turn decrease the demand for our cable modem service, increase our costs of providing such service or have other adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The effects of such laws or regulations may also require disclosure of failures of our procedures or breaches to our system by third parties, which can increase the likelihood of claims against us by affected subscribers. Increased exposure from loss of personal information could impose significant additional costs on us. Many states in which we operate have enacted laws requiring us to notify customers in the event that certain customer information is accessed, or believed to have been accessed, without authorization. Such notifications can result in private causes of action being filed against us. Additionally, we are increasingly required to provide protection of personal information to prevent identity theft and increasingly, financial institutions are seeking recovery of fraud losses from entities from which personal information was illicitly obtained. The effects of such laws and legal theories, should we have a loss of protected data, could increase our costs. Changes in channel carriage regulations could impose significant additional costs on us. Cable operators face significant regulation of their channel carriage. Currently, they can be required to devote substantial capacity to the carriage of programming that they might not carry voluntarily, including certain local broadcast signals, local public, educational and government access programming, and unaffiliated commercial leased access programming. The FCC’s Report and Order released in February 2008 significantly limits the amount that we can charge for commercial leased access, especially with respect to channels offered on one of our tiers, may cause a significant increase in demand for leased commercial access on our cable systems. Moreover, if the FCC ultimately adopts a requirement currently under consideration that we must carry the signals of certain low-power “Class A” television stations, or if the FCC or Congress were to require cable systems to carry multiple program streams included within a single digital broadcast transmission of a local television station, these carriage burdens would increase substantially. A substantial increase in demand for leased access programming and/or changes in carriage requirements could cause us to have to delete carriage of existing programming or forego carriage of additional programming that might be more desirable to our subscribers. Reversing the findings of a 2004 report, the FCC released a report in 2006 finding that consumers could benefit under certain a la carte models for delivery of video programming. The report did not specifically recommend or propose the adoption of any specific rules by the FCC, and it did not endorse a pure a la carte model where subscribers could purchase specific channels without restriction. Instead, it favored tiers plus individual channels or smaller theme-based tiers. Shortly after release of the report, the FCC voted to seek additional information as to whether cable systems with at least 36 channels are available to at least 70 percent of U.S. homes and whether 70 percent of households served by those systems subscribe. In November 2007, the FCC Chairman indicated that the FCC would seek additional information to determine whether those thresholds had been met. If so, the FCC may have discretion under the Cable Act to promulgate additional rules necessary to promote diversity of information sources. Congress may also consider legislation regarding programming packaging, bundling or a la carte delivery of programming. Any such requirements could fundamentally change the way in which we package and price our services. We cannot predict the outcome of any current or future FCC proceedings or legislation in this area, or the impact of such proceedings on our business, financial condition and results of operations at this time. Our franchises are non-exclusive and local franchising authorities may grant competing franchises in our markets. Our cable systems are operated under non-exclusive franchises granted by local franchising authorities. As a result, competing operators of cable systems and other potential competitors, such as municipal utility providers, may be granted franchises and may build cable systems in markets where we hold franchises. Some may not require local franchises at all, such as certain municipal utility providers. Any such competition could adversely affect our business. The existence of multiple cable systems in the same geographic area is generally referred to as an “overbuild.” As of December 31, 2007, approximately 12.4% of the estimated homes passed by our cable systems were overbuilt by other cable operators. We cannot assure you that competition from overbuilders will not develop in other markets that we now serve or will serve after any future acquisitions. 29 Table of Contents Legislation was recently passed in many states in which we operate cable systems and similar legislation is pending, or has been proposed in certain other states and in Congress, to allow local telephone companies to deliver services in competition with our cable service without obtaining equivalent local franchises. Such a legislatively granted advantage to our competitors could adversely affect our business. The effect of such initiatives, if any, on our obligation to obtain local franchises in the future or on any of our existing franchises, many of which have years remaining in their terms, cannot be predicted. In 2006, the FCC adopted an order that limits the ability of local franchising authorities to impose certain “unreasonable” requirements, such as public, governmental and educational access, institutional networks and build-out requirements, when issuing competitive franchises. The Order effectively permits competitors with existing rights to use the rights-of-ways to begin operation of cable systems no later than 90 days and all others 180 days after filing a franchise application and preempts conflicting existing local laws, regulations and requirements including level-playing field provisions. Although the Commission considered similar limitations on local franchising authorities with respect to incumbent franchise renewal proceedings, little relief was ultimately provided. Easing of barriers to entry or allowing competitors to operate under more favorable or less burdensome franchise requirements may adversely affect our business. Pending FCC and court proceedings could adversely affect our HSD service. The legal and regulatory status of providing HSD service by cable television companies is uncertain. Although the United States Supreme Court has held that HSD service was properly classified by the FCC as an “information service,” freeing it from regulation as a “telecommunications service,” it recognized that the FCC has jurisdiction to impose regulatory obligations on facilities-based Internet Service Providers. The FCC has issued a declaratory ruling that HSD service, as it is currently offered, is properly classified as an interstate information service that is not subject to common carrier regulation. However, the FCC is still considering the following: whether to require cable companies to provide capacity on their systems to other entities to deliver high-speed Internet directly to customers, also known as open access; whether certain other regulatory requirements do or should apply to cable modem service; and whether and to what extent cable modem service should be subject to local franchise authorities’ regulatory requirements or franchise fees. The adoption of new rules by the FCC could place additional costs and regulatory burdens on us, reduce our anticipated revenues or increase our anticipated costs for this service, complicate the franchise renewal process, result in greater competition or otherwise adversely affect our business. While we cannot predict the outcome of this proceeding, we do note that the FCC recently removed the requirement that telecommunications carriers provide access to competitors to resell their DSL Internet access service citing the need for competitive parity with cable modem service that has no similar access requirement. We may be subject to legal liability because of the acts of our HSD customers or because of our own negligence. Our HSD service enables individuals to access the Internet and to exchange information, generate content, conduct business and engage in various online activities on an international basis. The law relating to the liability of providers of these online services for activities of their users is currently unsettled both within the United States and abroad. Potentially, third parties could seek to hold us liable for the actions and omissions of our cable modem service customers, such as defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, fraud or other theories based on the nature and content of information that our customers use our service to post, download or distribute. We also could be subject to similar claims based on the content of other websites to which we provide links or third-party products, services or content that we may offer through our Internet service. Due to the global nature of the Web, it is possible that the governments of other states and foreign countries might attempt to regulate its transmissions or prosecute us for violations of their laws. It is also possible that information provided directly by us will contain errors or otherwise be negligently provided to users, resulting in third parties making claims against us. For example, we offer Web-based email services, which expose us to potential risks such as liabilities or claims resulting from unsolicited email, lost or misdirected messages, illegal or fraudulent use of email, or interruptions or delays in email service. Additionally, we host website “portal pages” designed for use as a home page by, but not limited to, our HSD customers. These 30 Table of Contents portal pages offer a wide variety of content from us and third parties that could contain errors or other material that could give rise to liability. To date, we have not been served notice that such a claim has been filed against us. However, in the future someone may serve such a claim on us in either a domestic or international jurisdiction and may succeed in imposing liability on us. Our defense of any such actions could be costly and involve significant distraction of our management and other resources. If we are held or threatened with significant liability, we may decide to take actions to reduce our exposure to this type of liability. This may require us to spend significant amounts of money for new equipment and may also require us to discontinue offering some features or our cable modem service. From time to time, we receive notices of claimed infringements by our cable modem service users. The owners of copyrights and trademarks have been increasingly active in seeking to prevent use of the Internet to violate their rights. In many cases, their claims of infringement are based on the acts of customers of an Internet service provider — for example, a customer’s use of an Internet service or the resources it provides to post, download or disseminate copyrighted music, movies, software or other content without the consent of the copyright owner or to seek to profit from the use of the goodwill associated with another person’s trademark. In some cases, copyright and trademark owners have sought to recover damages from the Internet service provider, as well as or instead of the customer. The law relating to the potential liability of Internet service providers in these circumstances is unsettled. In 1996, Congress adopted the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, which is intended to grant ISPs protection against certain claims of copyright infringement resulting from the actions of customers, provided that the ISP complies with certain requirements. So far, Congress has not adopted similar protections for trademark infringement claims. We may become subject to additional regulatory burdens because we offer phone service. The regulatory treatment of VoIP services like those we and others offer remains uncertain. The FCC, Congress, the courts and the states continue to look at issues surrounding the provision of VoIP, including whether this service is properly classified as a telecommunications service or an information service. The FCC’s decision to classify VoIP as an information service should eliminate much if not all local regulation of the service and should limit federal regulation to consumer protection, as opposed to economic issues. For example, on the federal level, the FCC recently required providers of “interconnected” VoIP services, such as ours, to file a letter with the FCC certifying compliance with certain E-911 functionality. Disputes have also arisen with respect to the rights of VoIP providers and their telecommunications provider partners to obtain interconnection and other rights under the Act from incumbent telephone companies. We cannot predict how these issues will be resolved, but uncertainties in the existing law as it applies to VoIP or any determination that results in greater or different regulatory obligations than competing services would result in increased costs, reduce anticipated revenues and impede our ability to effectively compete or otherwise adversely affect our ability to successfully roll-out and conduct our telephony business. Actions by pole owners might subject us to significantly increased pole attachment costs. Our cable facilities are often attached to or use public utility poles, ducts or conduits. Historically, cable system attachments to public utility poles have been regulated at the federal or state level. Generally this regulation resulted in favorable pole attachment rates for cable operators. The FCC clarified that the provision of Internet access does not endanger a cable operator’s favorable pole rates; this approach ultimately was upheld by the Supreme Court of the United States. That ruling, coupled with the recent Supreme Court decision upholding the FCC’s classification of HSD service as an information service should strengthen our ability to resist such rate increases based solely on the delivery of cable modem services over our cable systems. In November 2007, the FCC commenced a proceeding to determine whether it will effectively eliminate cable’s lower pole attachment fees by imposing a higher unified rate for entities providing broadband Internet service which could significantly increase our annual pole attachment costs. As we continue our deployment of cable telephony and certain other advanced services, utilities may continue to invoke higher rates. The series of cases that upheld the FCC rate formula as just compensation left one potential caveat allowing for a higher rate where an owner of a pole could show that an individual pole was “full” and where it could show lost opportunities to rent space presently occupied by an attacher at rates higher than provided under the rate formula. Gulf Power, a utility company from whom we rent pole space, invoked a formal hearing before the FCC in which Gulf Power attempted to demonstrate such a scenario so that it could impose higher pole attachment 31 Table of Contents rates than could be approved under the FCC’s rate formula. The Administrative Law Judge appointed by the FCC ultimately found for various reasons that the poles were not full and that Gulf Power had already set conditions in its contracts with operators that precluded a finding that it did not receive just compensation from the FCC rate formula. Gulf Power has appealed this decision to the full Commission and a potential adverse ruling could occur. In November 2007, the FCC released a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) addressing pole attachment rental rates, certain terms and conditions of pole access and other issues. The NPRM calls for a review of long-standing FCC rules and regulations, including the long-standing “cable rate” formula and considers effectively eliminating cable’s lower pole attachment fees by imposing a higher unified rate for entities providing broadband Internet service. While we cannot predict the outcome of the NPRM will ultimately have on our business, changes to our pole attachment rate structure could significantly increase our annual pole attachment costs. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer a material adverse impact from any significant increased costs, and such increased pole attachment costs could discourage system upgrades and the introduction of new products and services. Changes in compulsory copyright regulations might significantly increase our license fees. Filed petitions for rulemaking with the United States Copyright Office propose revisions to certain compulsory copyright license reporting requirements and seek clarification of certain issues relating to the application of the compulsory license to the carriage of digital broadcast stations. The petitions seek, among other things: (i) clarification of the inclusion in gross revenues of digital converter fees, additional set fees for digital service and revenue from required “buy throughs” to obtain digital service; and (ii) reporting of “dual carriage” and multicast signals. In December 2007, the Copyright Office issued a Notice of Inquiry to review whether cable operators must include in their compulsory license royalty calculation a distant signal carried anywhere in the cable system as if it were carried everywhere in the system, thus resulting in payments on “phantom signals.” Moreover, the Copyright Office has not yet acted on a filed petition and may solicit comment on the definition of definition of a “network” station for purposes of the compulsory license.” The Copyright Office may open one or more rulemakings in response to these petitions. We cannot predict the outcome of any such rulemakings; however, it is possible that certain changes in the rules or copyright compulsory license fee computations could have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations by increasing our copyright compulsory license fee costs or by causing us to reduce or discontinue carriage of certain broadcast signals that we currently carry on a discretionary basis. Risks Related to our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer’s Controlling Position Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer has the ability to control all major corporate decisions, and a sale of his stock could result in a change of control that would have unpredictable effects. Rocco B. Commisso, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owned shares of our common stock representing approximately 79.8% of the aggregate voting power as of December 31, 2007. As a result, Mr. Commisso generally has the ability to control the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of our entire board of directors, the approval of any merger or consolidation and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, Mr. Commisso’s voting power may have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire us because any such acquisition would require his consent. We cannot assure you that Mr. Commisso will maintain all or any portion of his ownership, or that he would continue as an officer or director if he sold a significant part of his stock. The disposition by Mr. Commisso of a sufficient number of shares could result in a change in control of our company, and no assurance can be given that a change of control would not adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. A change in control could also result in a default under our debt arrangements, could require us to offer to repurchase our senior notes at 101% of their principal amount, could trigger a variety of federal, state and local regulatory consent requirements and potentially limit our utilization of net operating losses for income tax purposes. 32 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 