D. Risk Factors Declines in economic conditions in the Company’s major markets, including private-sector capital expenditure, construction investment, and domestic public investment, may adversely impact the results of operations of the Company. Industrial and capital goods make up a substantial portion of the Company’s products. Accordingly, revenues of the Company may decrease due to declining demand resulting from declines in general economic conditions, including private-sector capital expenditures, construction investment, and domestic public investment. In addition, governmental agricultural policies may adversely affect domestic sales of agriculture-related products. In overseas markets, especially those of North America and Europe, sales of the Company’s products, such as utility/compact tractors, may decrease due to declines in general economic conditions, including private consumption and residential construction investment in those regions. Fluctuations of foreign exchange rates, including a stronger yen, may reduce revenues and adversely affect the results of operations of the Company. The Company has overseas revenues and manufacturing subsidiaries. The financial results of each overseas subsidiary are consolidated into the results of the parent company after translation into Japanese yen. In addition, the transactions between the parent company and overseas subsidiaries or customers are generally denominated in the local currencies. The payments received in local currencies on such transactions are converted to Japanese yen. As a result, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates affect the consolidated financial results. In general, a stronger yen against other currencies adversely affects revenues and the results of operations of the Company. If the prices of raw materials increase and the Company has difficulties in procuring adequate supplies of them, there may be a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. The Company purchases substantial raw materials and parts from outside suppliers. If the prices of raw materials substantially increase due to the supply and demand gap and changes in market conditions, and stay at high levels for a long time, they may deteriorate the Company’s profitability. Also, if the Company has difficulties in procuring adequate supplies of raw materials, there may be a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations due to difficulties in production and sales activities. 2 Table of Contents The risks associated with international operations may adversely affect revenues and profitability of the Company. In some businesses of the Company, substantial overseas operations are conducted. Accordingly, the Company is subject to a number of risks inherent in doing business in those markets. If such risks occurred, the Company may face difficulties in stable production and sales of products in overseas markets that may affect revenues and profitability of the Company or they may hinder growth of the Company in specific countries. The following risks are serious concerns for the Company: • Unexpected changes in international, or in an individual country’s, tax regulations; • Unexpected legal or regulatory changes in a country; • Difficulties in retaining qualified personnel; • Underqualified technological skills or instability between management and employee unions in developing countries; and • Political instability in those countries. Among the United States, the EU, and Asian countries, which are important markets for the Company, the previously mentioned risks in Asian countries seem to be relatively higher than those of other regions. If strategic alliances, mergers, and acquisitions do not generate successful results as planned, then the Company’s profitability may deteriorate. The Company expects to use strategic alliances, mergers, and acquisitions to seek further growth. The success of these activities depends on such factors as the Company’s business environment, the ability of its business counterparts, and whether the Company and its counterparts share common goals. Therefore, if these activities are not successful and returns on related investments are lower than expected, the Company’s profitability may deteriorate. If the Company is not able to successfully create new businesses or businesses complementary to the current ones, then there may be a negative impact on the Company’s financial position. As part of its structural renovation, the Company is attempting to cultivate new businesses or businesses that are complementary to the current ones. In general, there are numerous competitors, and competition is very harsh in those markets. If the Company fails to develop the required personnel or abilities to produce and market appropriate products, subsequent impairment charges may be taken, or there may be a negative impact on the Company’s financial position. Impairment losses on investments in marketable securities may occur as a result of stock market fluctuations, which may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial position. As of March 31, 2008, the Company owns securities with a fair value of approximately ¥135.1 billion ($1,351 million). In general, most of these securities are equity securities. Accordingly, impairment losses may occur, depending on stock market fluctuations, which may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, and financial position. The Company is subject to intensifying competitive pressures. Unless the Company surpasses other companies in each of its businesses, revenues and /or net income may decrease in the future. The Company is exposed to severe competition in each of its businesses. Unless the Company surpasses other companies in such areas as terms of trade, R&D, and quality, revenues and/or net income may decrease in the future. If the Company’s products and services are alleged to have serious defects, such allegations may have a material effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial position. If the Company’s products and services are alleged to have serious defects, the Company may have liability for significant damages, and there may be a material effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial position. If such claims are asserted, the Company may lose the confidence of the public and suffer a reduction in its brand value, which may result in decreased revenues or demand for its products. The Company may be required to incur considerable expenses in order to comply with various environmental laws and regulations. Such expenses may have a material effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial position. The Company is subject to various environmental laws and regulations that apply to its products and activities. If these environmental laws and regulations, such as those that impose carbon dioxide emission controls, emission controls, and usage restrictions for certain materials which are used in the Company’s products, are strengthened or newly established in jurisdictions in which the Company conducts its businesses, the Company may be required to incur considerable expenses in order to comply with such laws and regulations. Such expenses may have a material effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial position. To the extent that the Company determines that it is not economical to continue to comply with such laws and regulations, the Company may have to curtail or discontinue its activities in the affected business areas. 3 Table of Contents The Company may be required to incur significant expenses in connection with environmental damage its activities may allegedly cause. Such expenses may have a material effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial position. Claims may arise that the Company’s activities have caused environmental contamination, including the release of hazardous materials or air pollution, water pollution, and/or soil contamination. In such an event, the Company may elect or be required to implement costly corrective actions to resolve any issues associated with the release or presence of such hazardous materials or contamination and may face associated litigation. These factors may have a material effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial position. If the Company is required to incur significant expenses relevant to asbestos-related issues, then there may be a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial position, and its liquidity. The Company previously manufactured products containing asbestos from 1954 to 2001. The Company may be required to incur various expenses, including payments to the individuals concerned or face lawsuits related to the asbestos-related health hazards of employees (including former employees) who engaged in the manufacturing of products containing asbestos, and residents who lived near the Company’s factory at which these products were manufactured. If such expenses become significant or any lawsuits result in judgments unfavorable to the Company, there may be a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial position, and its liquidity. The Company may experience a material effect on its results of operations and financial position if it faces issues related to compliance. The Company has declared its intention to conduct its corporate activities in compliance with legal regulations and ethical principles, and to exert efforts to cause all management and staff of the Group companies not to act in violation of various legal regulations, ethical standards, or internal regulations. However, in the event that compliance issues arise, there is a possibility that the Company may be subject to disciplinary action by government ministries supervising its activities or to lawsuits, or may suffer a loss of public confidence, that could have a material effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial position. If the Company is damaged by natural disasters, then the Company’s operations may suffer great losses. Japan is a country with frequent earthquakes. If a strong earthquake or related tidal wave occur, the Company may be affected in the operation of its manufacturing, logistics, and sales activities, and may lose revenues and profits depending on the severity of the earthquake or tidal wave. Japan also is hit by typhoons very frequently. If major plants are struck by a large and powerful typhoon, the Company’s operations may suffer great losses due to disruption of operations, delay in production and shipment, and restoration costs for facilities. In each business segment mentioned below, Kubota is subject to risks inherent to those businesses and markets. Internal Combustion Engine and Machinery Segment In the business of farm equipment, national agricultural policies which provide subsidies with emphasis on large-scale farmers and intends to make efficient use of agricultural resources such as farming land, agricultural machinery and facilities, may lead farmers to refrain from purchasing new equipment. In order to compete with other companies, the Company must maintain marketing channels, develop new products that reflect consumers’ exact demands, and intensify appropriate after-sales services. In addition, substantial personnel and financing resources are required. At the same time, the Company is also subject to severe competition in overseas markets including the United States. The pressures of reducing prices or shortening lead times are making business conditions more difficult. Consequently, the Company must take all possible steps to overcome the handicap of exporting products from Japan. Specifically, it is very important for the Company to promote its retail sales by offering appropriate incentives to its dealers, and to introduce innovative products that address consumers’ needs, in advance of its competitors. The Company must continue to promote these operations and to compete with its competitors in overseas markets in order to develop the business. Otherwise, the decrease in revenues may have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated results of operations and financial position. 4 Table of Contents Pipes, Valves, and Industrial Castings Segment The business of Pipes and Valves is basically dependent on public sector investments. Therefore, sales and profitability of this segment may be adversely affected by reductions in public investments by national or local governments. In the business of ductile iron pipes and industrial casting, because of the relatively severe working environment, including the need to handle molten pig iron and steel scraps, it might be difficult to hire and retain qualified new employees. If the Company fails to hire and retain qualified employees, to transfer the manufacturing skills to next- generation, to automate these processes, the Company may face difficulties in continuing its business. In addition, increasing environmental restrictions on such items as noise, air pollution or bad smells caused by factories may require additional investments to cope with such restrictions and may reduce profitability as a result of an increase in production costs. Certain of the Company’s competitors are located in China or India where personnel costs are extremely low compared with Japan. Accordingly, the Company must continue to reduce production costs. As for export of its products, negative factors such as stronger yen, increased competition in international competitive bidding, increasing cost of freight and insurance, may impair profitability of exportation. Exports of ductile iron pipes, steel castings, and valves are concentrated to the Middle East. If conflicts erupt in this area, the rescission of contracts and bad debts may occur. Reductions in private capital expenditure or residential construction investment may adversely impact the business, financial condition or results of the Company. The Company may face difficulties in procuring adequate major raw materials. Especially, the difficulties may arise in obtaining such raw materials as coke, magnesium, molybdenum and manganese, of which China is the largest producer and exporter, due to export restrictions that may be imposed by Chinese government when the Chinese domestic demand for these materials increases substantially. Other raw materials such as steel scraps may also become difficult to obtain sufficiently due to significant increase in the demand from abroad. Environmental Engineering Segment In the business of Environmental Engineering, a large portion of the demand depends on public sector investments. If the Company is unable to manage adverse developments such as a decrease in demand due to a reduction in public investments, intensifying competition owing to an increase in competitors, or the need to maintain high quality R&D personnel to develop new technologies, the Company’s financial condition or results may be adversely affected. Furthermore, demands on product specification vary from customer to customer, which raise product cost. The Company is aggressively working to shift its business model. Specifically, by developing its positions in the private sector and overseas markets, the Company is promoting a shift from the plant engineering business to the sales and installation of machinery and equipment. If the Company fails to produce and market new products or establish new dealer networks, the Company will not be able to shift its business model, and the Company’s financial condition or results may be adversely affected. Other Segment Other segment consists of primarily vending machines, electronic-equipped machinery, air-conditioning equipment, septic tanks, condominiums, construction, and other equipments services. While the Company encounters market competition for these products, declining general economic conditions, including reduction in private capital expenditures, construction investment and public investment may also adversely affect the business and financial results of this segment. 5 Table of Contents 