D. RISK FACTORS YOU SHOULD CAREFULLY CONSIDER THE FOLLOWING RISKS BEFORE DECIDING TO PURCHASE, HOLD OR SELL OUR STOCK. SET FORTH BELOW ARE THE MOST SIGNIFICANT RISKS, AS IDENTIFIED BY OUR MANAGEMENT, BUT WE MAY ALSO FACE RISKS IN THE FUTURE THAT ARE NOT PRESENTLY FORESEEN. OUR BUSINESS, OPERATING RESULTS OR FINANCIAL CONDITION COULD BE MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY THESE AND OTHER RISKS. YOU SHOULD ALSO REFER TO THE OTHER INFORMATION CONTAINED OR INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE IN THIS ANNUAL REPORT, BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT DECISION REGARDING OUR COMPANY. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY WE HAVE A HISTORY OF OPERATING LOSSES. We have incurred significant operating losses since our inception, and we may not achieve operating profitability in the foreseeable future. We reported operating losses of approximately $14.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, $17.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2006, each. As of December 31, 2006, our accumulated deficit was approximately $92.9 million. We reported revenues of approximately $14.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. Our revenues may not grow and are likely to decline in the forseeable future. Moreover, even if we are successful in increasing our revenues, we may be delayed in doing so. If our revenues do not increase to keep pace with our expenses or if our expenses increase at a greater pace than our revenues, we will not be able to achieve profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. This is likely to have an adverse impact on the value of our stock. OUR STRATEGIC DECISION TO SHIFT THE COMPANY'S EFFORTS AWAY FROM DSL CHIPSETS, IN ORDER TO FOCUS ON DEVELOPING HIGH-THROUGHPUT WIRELESS LOCAL AREA NETWORK (HT-WLAN) CHIPSETS, WILL REQUIRE US TO UTILIZE A SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF RESOURCES, EVEN THOUGH THE RESULTS OF OUR STRATEGY ARE UNCERTAIN. As we transition away from the digital subscriber line, or DSL, chipset market, most of our research and development resources are allocated to developing high-throughput wireless local area network (HT-WLAN) chipsets. As a result, our research and development resources allocated for DSL chipsets are significantly reduced. However, we cannot be certain that the results of our HT-WLAN research and development efforts will yield any revenues in the future. Our success with the wireless product line may also be challenged by, among other things, new technological barriers associated with wireless technologies, and sales and marketing challenges associated with penetrating a new market, particularly, since we have no previous track record in providing such services or products. We expect that our revenues will be adversely affected as sales of our DSL chipsets decline and revenues from HT-WLAN are not yet realized. 4 OUR REVENUE GROWTH DEPENDS ON THE SUCCESS OF OUR HIGH-THROUGHPUT WLAN PRODUCTS. Our revenue growth will be dependent upon revenues generated by high-throughput WLAN products. Because this is a new product and market for us, we do not know and are unable to predict whether the development phase will succeed or that we will succeed in selling HT-WLAN products in the future. IF THE MARKET FOR HT-WLAN SOLUTIONS DOES NOT DEVELOP, WE WILL NOT BE ABLE TO SELL ENOUGH OF OUR CHIPSETS TO ACHIEVE, SUSTAIN OR INCREASE PROFITABILITY. Sales of our WLANPLUS products are dependent, among other things, on the development of the HT-WLAN market, and specifically networking and consumer electronics manufactures of products incorporating HT-WLAN (based on the 802.11n standard draft) such as residential gateways, access points, television sets, digital video recorders, digital video disks, advanced set top boxes, and media adaptors. If the market for digital and online entertainment, including on-demand gaming, music and video services based on HT-WLAN chipsets does not develop to incorporate our products, our financial condition, results of operations, and prospects would be adversely affected. SUBSTANTIAL SALES OF OUR HT-WLAN CHIPSETS WILL NOT OCCUR UNLESS END-CUSTOMERS INCLUDING CONSUMER ELECTRONICS VENDORS INCORPORATE OUR CHIPSETS IN THEIR PRODUCTS. The success of our products is dependent upon the decision by end-customers, including consumer electronics vendors, to incorporate our chipsets in their products. Factors that may impact such sale include: o challenges of interoperability among HT-WLAN based products, which may affect sales of the products in which our chipsets are contained; o government regulations, and a longer than anticipated 802.11n standard approval process; o a prolonged acceptance process for our HT-WLAN chipsets, including laboratory testing, technical trials, marketing trials, initial commercial deployment and full commercial deployment. During this process we are subject to numerous tests and trials, at any stage of which we may be stopped from continuing to the final stage of commercial deployment. Moreover, the abovementioned process may take longer and consume more of our resources than expected for reasons we can not anticipate; o the development of a viable business model for networking and consumer electronics products based on our chipsets; and o cost constraints, such as space and power requirements, which may affect purchases of our chipsets. 5 A SLOWDOWN IN THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS INDUSTRY WOULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Telecommunications service providers and their customers are the principal end-users of substantially all of our wireline products. From time to time, the telecommunications industry in much of the world, including in our principal markets, has experienced significant downturns, resulting in decreases and delays in the procurement and deployment of new telecommunications equipment. It is likely that any prolonged and substantial curtailment of growth in the telecommunications industry will have an adverse effect, which may be material, upon us. Any such curtailment may result from circumstances unrelated to us or our product offerings and over which we have no control. In addition, a market perception that these conditions could have an impact on our company may harm the trading prices of our shares, whether or not our business and results of operations are actually affected. During 2006 we kept approximately the same level of revenues as in 2005, representing a significant decline compared to 2004. We are unable to forecast accurately the timing of any long-term industry downturns or recoveries, or the duration of such downturns or recoveries. However, as our resources allocated for DSL were reduced significatly, we expect our revenues from DSL to significant decline, and also that our position in the DSL chipset market may be adversely affected by competition from other companies that continue to invest in research and development for their DSL chipset products. OUR QUARTERLY OPERATING RESULTS ARE VOLATILE. THIS MAY CAUSE OUR SHARE PRICE TO DECLINE. Our quarterly operating results and revenues have varied significantly in the past and are likely to vary significantly in the future. These variations result from a number of factors, many of which are substantially outside of our control, including: o Our revenues depend upon the size, timing and shipment of orders for our chipsets, especially large orders from certain customers. We do not receive orders in the same amounts each quarter; o Our customers may not accurately forecast their needs or efficiently manage their inventory positions; o Our limited order backlog makes revenues in any quarter substantially dependent on orders received and delivered in that quarter; o Customers may cancel or postpone orders in our backlog; o The timing and level of market acceptance for existing chipsets, chipsets under development and new applications, or chipsets introduced by us or by our competitors, is uncertain; 6 o The need to enter new markets and expand our current markets may delay revenues and cause additional expenses; o The effectiveness of our customers in marketing and selling their equipment; o Our profitability can be affected by the payment of royalties and commissions to subcontractors such as intellectual property vendors or sales representatives; o Changes in pricing by us or by our competitors; o Unfavorable changes in the prices of the components we purchase or license; o The fact that only a small portion of our expenses vary with our revenues, if revenue levels for a quarter fall below our expectations, our earnings will decrease; o A delay in the receipt of revenue arising from postponement of orders by customers or, shipping delays of existing orders, even from one customer, may have a significant negative impact on our results of operations for a given period. We have experienced such delays in the past, and our results of operations for those periods were, as a result, negatively affected; o The mix of chipsets sold and the mix of sales channels through which they are sold; o Changes in resource allocation by our customers due to their operating budget cycles; o Deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new applications or new chipsets introduced by us or by our competitors; o Delays in delivery by the subcontractors who manufacture our chips; o New definition of products needed for the markets we address; o Inventory write-offs and impairment of assets; o General economic and market sector conditions. Because of historical variations in our quarterly operating results, a period-to-period comparison of our results of operations may not be reliable as an indicator of future performance. Accordingly, our operating results may be below public expectations in future fiscal periods. Our failure to meet these expectations may cause our share price to decline. 7 WE MAY NEED TO RAISE ADDITIONAL FUNDS, WHICH MAY NOT BE AVAILABLE. While we expect that our cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs for at least by the end of 2007, we can not be certain that such funds will be sufficient. We may need to raise additional funds in the future for a number of uses, including: o expanding research and development programs; o hiring additional qualified personnel; o general working capital; o implementing further marketing and sales activities; and o acquiring complementary businesses. We may not be able to obtain additional funds on acceptable terms or at all. If we cannot raise needed funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to: o develop new products; o enhance our existing products; o remain current with evolving industry standards; o take advantage of future opportunities; or o respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements. THE LOSS OF ONE OR MORE OF OUR KEY CUSTOMERS WOULD RESULT IN A SIGNIFICANT LOSS OF REVENUES. Historically, relatively few customers have accounted for a large percentage of our net revenues. Our business will be negatively impacted if revenue projections from these customers fall short, or if we experience a loss of any significant customer, particularly, ECI Telecom Ltd., Murata Elettronica S.P.A, Tellabs Oy, or Tellion Inc., or suffer a substantial reduction in orders from these customers. In 2006, four customers, ECI , Murata, Tellabs and Tellion, each accounted for more than 10% of our revenues, and collectively accounted, directly and through their respective manufacturing subcontractors, for an aggregate of 52% of our revenues. We cannot be certain that these customers will maintain these levels of purchases or that they will elect to continue working with us. We do not have contracts with any of our customers that obligate them to continue to purchase our chipsets, and these customers could cease purchasing our chipsets at any time. We expect that sales of our chipsets to certain key customers will continue to account for a significant portion of our net revenues for the foreseeable future. 8 IF THE MARKET FOR WI-FI SOLUTIONS DOES NOT CONTINUE TO DEVELOP, WE WILL NOT BE ABLE TO SELL ENOUGH OF OUR CHIPSETS TO ACHIEVE, SUSTAIN OR INCREASE PROFITABILITY. HT-WLAN solutions compete with a variety of different broadband access technologies in home networking, including BPL- Broadband over Power Lines, HomePNA - Home Phoneline Networking Alliance - broadband over existing home telephone or coax wiring, MoCA - Multimedia over Coax Alliance, UWB - Ultra-Wideb. If any technology that competes with HT-WLAN (based on the 802.11n standard draft) technology is more reliable, faster or less expensive, and reaches more customers, or has other advantages over HT-WLAN technology, the demand for our chipsets will be limited, and we may not sell enough of our chipsets to achieve, sustain or increase profitability. Furtehrmorwe, if the market for 802.11n standard draft products will not evolve, our business result will be severly harmed. SUBSTANTIAL SALES OF OUR CHIPSETS WILL NOT OCCUR UNLESS END-CUSTOMER TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDERS INCREASINGLY DEPLOY DSL SYSTEMS. The success of our DSL products is dependent upon the decision by end-customer telecommunications service providers to deploy DSL systems that include our chipsets and the timing of the deployment. Factors that may impact such deployment include: o a prolonged approval process, including laboratory tests, technical trials, marketing trials, initial commercial deployment and full commercial deployment. During this process we are subject to numerous tests and trials, under which we may not continue to the final stage of commercial deployment. Furthermore, this process may take longer to conclude than expected, for reasons we can not anticipate; o the development of a viable telecommunications service provider business model for DSL systems and services, including the capability to market, sell, install and maintain DSL systems and services; o cost constraints, such as installation costs and space and power requirements at the telecommunications service provider's central office, which may affect purchases of DSL systems that contain our chipsets; o varying and uncertain conditions of the local loop, including the size and length of the copper wire, electrical interference and interference with existing voice and data telecommunications services; o challenges of interoperability among DSL equipment manufacturers' products, which may affect sales of the systems in which our chipsets are contained; and o government regulations, including regulations of telecommunications service providers' rates and ability to recapture capital expenditures on DSL systems by governments in the United States and around the world. 9 If telecommunications service providers do not expand their deployment of DSL systems or if additional telecommunications service providers do not offer DSL services our results of operations and prospects will be harmed. CHANGES IN CURRENT TELECOMMUNICATIONS LAWS OR REGULATIONS OR THE IMPOSITION OF NEW LAWS OR REGULATIONS COULD IMPEDE THE SALE OF OUR PLANNED WIRELESS PRODUCTS OR OTHERWISE HARM OUR BUSINESS. Wireless networks can only operate in the frequency bands, or spectrum, allowed by regulators and in accordance with rules governing how the spectrum can be used. The Federal Communications Commission, or the FCC, in the United States, as well as regulators in other countries, have broad jurisdiction over the allocation of frequency bands for wireless networks. Our business relies on the FCC and international regulators to provide sufficient spectrum and usage rules. For example, countries such as China, Japan and Korea heavily regulate all aspects of their wireless communications industries, and may restrict spectrum allocation or usage, or may impose requirements that render our products or our customers' products unmarketable in these jurisdictions. If this were to occur, it would make it difficult or impossible for us to sell our products in that region. In addition, some of our chipsets will operate in the 5 gigahertz, or GHz band, which is also used by government and commercial services such as military and commercial aviation. The FCC and European regulators have traditionally protected government uses of the 5GHz bands by setting power limits and indoor and outdoor designation and requiring that wireless local area networking devices not interfere with other users of the band such as government and civilian satellite services. Changes in current laws or regulations, reversal of usage rights, or the imposition of new laws and regulations regarding the allocation and usage of the 5GHz band on us, our customers or the industries in which we operate may materially and adversely impact the sales of our products and our business, financial condition and results of operations. EVOLVING AND CURRENT INDUSTRY STANDARDS FOR DSL AND WIRELESS TECHNOLOGIES COULD AFFECT THE END-MARKET FOR OUR PRODUCTS. Evolving and current industry standards for DSL and wireless technologies may affect the end-market for our DSL products. In particular this may have an adverse effect on our very high-speed digital subscriber line, or VDSL, and wireless business. For example, with regard to VDSL technology, in 2004, the International Telecommunication Union or ITU reached agreement on a new global standard that specifies the application of the two main technologies used for encoding signals for DSL - Discrete MultiTone (DMT) technology and Quadrature Amplitude Modulation (QAM) - to VDSL technology. However, in May 2005 the ITU ratified a VDSL2 standard based on the existing ADSL2 and VDSL standards that specify DMT modulation only. Our existing VDSL chipsets are based on QAM. Currently, most of the future deployment of VDSL chipsets require only the VDSL2 standard of DMT. Thus, our VDSL sales suffer from lack of demand, and shall continue to be adversely affected in the future. With regard to wireless products, we design our products to conform to the IEEE (Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc.) recently adopted draft 802.11n specification. We also depend on industry groups such as the WiFi Alliance to certify and maintain certification of our products. If our customers adopt new or competing industry standards with which our products will not be compatible, or such industry groups fail to adopt standards with which our products will be compatible, or if we are unable to complete development of products based on the draft specification on a timely basis, our business will be adversly harmed. 10 IF THE ORIGINAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURERS AND ORIGINAL DESIGN MANUFACTURERS THAT UTILIZE OUR CHIPSETS ARE NOT SUCCESSFUL IN SELLING THEIR SYSTEMS, SALES OF OUR CHIPSETS WILL DECLINE SIGNIFICANTLY. We rely upon equipment manufacturers and design manufacturers to integrate our chipsets into their systems. If their systems are not successful, or they choose not to purchase our chipsets, or they fail to incorporate our chipsets into their systems, we will not be able to sell our chipsets to them in substantial quantities. Moreover, they may fail to market or sell their systems successfully. Their systems may be unsuccessful for a large number of reasons, substantially all of which are beyond our control. OUR CHIPSETS MAY NOT ADEQUATELY SERVE THE NEEDS OF END USERS. Our chipsets are sold primarily through original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs. Thus, the feedback that we receive with respect to the field performance of our chipsets from telecommunication service providers and their users may be limited. This may impair our ability to design chipsets that are responsive to the needs of the end users of our chipsets. This may harm the market acceptance of our chipsets. IF WE DO NOT ACHIEVE "DESIGN WINS" WITH EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURERS OR WITH DESIGN MANUFACTURERS DURING THE DESIGN STAGE OF A NEW PRODUCT, WE MAY BE UNABLE TO SECURE PRODUCTION ORDERS FROM THESE CUSTOMERS IN THE FUTURE. We sell our products directly to OEMs, who include our chipsets in their products, and we intend to sell our products also to original design manufacturers, or ODMs, who include the chipsets in the products they supply to OEMs. Our products are generally incorporated into our customers' products at the design stage. As a result, we rely on OEMs\ODMs to design our products into the products they sell. Once a DSL or a wireless equipment manufacturer has designed its system to include a particular supplier's chip set, the equipment manufacturer may be reluctant to change its source of chipsets. Furthermore, even if an OEM\ODM designs one of our products into its product offering, we cannot be assured that its product will be commercially successful, that we will receive any revenue from that manufacturer or that a successor design will include one of our products. Accordingly, the failure to secure a customer contract or commitment to collaborate at the development stage or to develop and test our chipsets within their system could create barriers to future sales opportunities. The absence of such equipment manufacturer and/or design manufacturer relationships would negatively affect our ability to achieve long-term success. 11 WE MUST DEVELOP NEW CHIPSETS AND NEW APPLICATIONS FOR OUR EXISTING CHIPSETS TO REMAIN COMPETITIVE. IF WE FAIL TO DO SO ON A TIMELY BASIS, WE MAY LOSE MARKET SHARE. The markets for DSL and wireless solutions such as ours are characterized by: o rapid technological changes; o frequent new product introductions; o changes in customer requirements; and o evolving industry standards. Accordingly, our future success will depend, to a substantial extent, on our ability to: o invest significantly in research and development; o develop, introduce and support new chipsets and new applications for existing chipsets on a timely basis; o gain market acceptance of our chipsets; o implement successful cost reduction activities; o anticipate customer requirements; and o comply with industry standards. As we invest most of our research and development resources in the development of HT-WLAN chipsets, we expect to lose our market share in DSL to our competitors and our revenues from DSL products will therefore decline. BECAUSE COMPETITION IN THE MARKET FOR OUR SOLUTIONS IS INTENSE, WE MAY LOSE MARKET SHARE, AND WE MAY BE UNABLE TO ACHIEVE OR MAINTAIN PROFITABILITY. Our market is highly competitive, and we expect competition to intensify in the future. We may not be able to compete effectively in our market, and we may lose market share to our competitors. Our principal competitors in the DSL market include Conexant Systems, Inc., Ikanos Communications Inc., Infineon Technologies AG, and Mindspeed Technologies, Inc. Our competitors in the wireless LAN market include Atheros Communications, Inc., Broadcom Corporation, Conexant Systems, Inc., Intel Corporation, Marvell Technology Group Ltd., Qualcomm Inc. (formerly Airgo Networks, Inc.), Ralink Technology Corp. and Texas Instruments Incorporated. We expect to continue to face competition from these and other competitors. Larger companies with substantial resources, brand recognition and sales channels may form alliances or merge with, or acquire competing chip set providers and emerge as significant competitors. In addition, competitors may bundle their products or incorporate a DSL or a wireless chip set component into existing products in a manner that renders our chipsets obsolete. 12 COMPETITION MAY RESULT IN LOWER PRICES AND A CORRESPONDING REDUCTION IN OUR ABILITY TO RECOVER OUR COSTS. THIS MAY IMPAIR OUR ABILITY TO ACHIEVE OR MAINTAIN PROFITABILITY. We expect that price competition among DSL and wireless chip set suppliers will reduce our gross margins in the future. We anticipate that average selling prices of our chipsets will continue to decline as product technologies mature. Since we do not manufacture our own chipsets, we may be unable to reduce our manufacturing costs in response to declining average per unit selling prices. Many of our competitors are larger and have greater resources than we do. These competitors may be able to achieve greater economies of scale and may be less vulnerable to price competition. Declines in average selling prices will generally lead to declines in gross margins for chipsets. If we are unable to recover costs, we will be unable to achieve profitability. IN ORDER TO ATTAIN AND MAINTAIN PROFITABILITY, WE MUST MANAGE OUR RESOURCES EFFECTIVELY IN A VOLATILE MARKET. We had 154 employees at December 31, 2005 and 162 employees at December 31, 2006. The growth of our business has placed, and will continue to place, a strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources. We must also implement sophisticated control systems. We cannot assure you that our management team will be able to work together effectively to manage our organization as a public company. To manage resources effectively, we must: o improve and expand our management information systems (MIS) from time to time. o as a company with publicly traded shares, adopt additional processes to ensure compliance with securities regulations; o hire, train, manage and retain qualified employees for current business and especially when the business is growing, and, when industry conditions decline, reduce the workforce; and o effectively manage relationships with our customers, subcontractors, suppliers and other third parties. We cannot assure you that we have made adequate allowances for the costs and risks associated with these requirements, that our current and future systems, procedures or controls will be adequate to support our operations or that our management will be able to offer and expand our product categories successfully. Any delay in implementing, or transitioning to, new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls may seriously harm our ability to record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis or otherwise manage our expanding operations. If we are unable to do so effectively, our revenues may not increase, our costs of operations may increase and our business may be harmed. 13 BECAUSE WE OPERATE IN INTERNATIONAL MARKETS, WE ARE SUBJECT TO ADDITIONAL RISKS. We currently offer our chipsets in a number of countries, through independent sales representatives and distributors, and we intend to enter additional geographic markets. Our business is subject to risks which often characterize international markets, including: o potentially weak protection of intellectual property rights; o economic and political instability; o import or export licensing requirements; o trade restrictions; o difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; o longer payment cycles; o unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and tariffs; o seasonal reductions in business activities in some parts of the world, such as during the summer months in Europe; o the impact of regional epidemics; o fluctuations in exchange rates; o potentially adverse tax consequences; and o language and cultural differences. These risks may impair our ability to generate revenues from our increased global sales efforts. BECAUSE OF OUR LONG PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT PROCESS AND SALES CYCLE, WE MAY INCUR SUBSTANTIAL EXPENSES BEFORE WE EARN ASSOCIATED REVENUES. We incur substantial product development and marketing expenditures prior to generating associated revenues. We do not receive substantial orders for our chipsets during the period that potential customers test and evaluate our chipsets. This period typically lasts from six to twelve months or longer, and volume production of products that incorporate our chipsets typically does not begin until this test and evaluation period has been completed. As a result, a significant period of time may elapse between our product development and sales efforts and any realization by us of revenues from volume ordering of our chipsets by our customers, or we may never realize revenues from our efforts. 14 BECAUSE WE DO NOT HAVE LONG-TERM CONTRACTS WITH OUR CUSTOMERS, OUR CUSTOMERS CAN DISCONTINUE PURCHASES OF OUR CHIPSETS AT ANY TIME, WHICH MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR INVENTORY LEVELS. We sell our chipsets based on individual purchase orders. Our customers are not obligated by long-term contracts to purchase our chipsets. Our customers can generally cancel or reschedule orders upon short notice. Furthermore, achieving a design win with a customer does not necessarily mean that this customer will order large volumes of our products. A design win is not a binding commitment by a customer to purchase our chipsets. Rather, it is a decision by a customer to use our chipsets in the design process of that customer's products. A customer can discontinue using our chipsets at any time. We have experienced in the past cancellations or deferrals of purchase orders, and additional cancellations and deferrals may occur from time to time. We have historically placed firm orders for products with our foundries up to approximately 16 weeks prior to the anticipated delivery date and typically prior to receiving an order for the product. Therefore, our order volumes are based on our forecasts of demand from our customers. This process requires us to make multiple demand forecast assumptions, each of which may introduce error into our estimates. If we overestimate customer demand or incorrectly estimate product mix, we may allocate resources to manufacturing products that we may not be able to sell when we expect or at all. As a result, we would have excess inventory, which would harm our financial results. Conversely, if we underestimate customer demand or if insufficient manufacturing capacity is available, we would forgo revenue opportunities, lose market share and damage our customer relationships. WE CURRENTLY RELY ON A LIMITED NUMBER OF SUBCONTRACTORS TO MANUFACTURE AND ASSEMBLE OUR CHIPS. We rely on a single subcontractor for the manufacture of a majority of the chips included in our chipsets and on a limited number of subcontractors for the assembly of finished chips and other related services. Our subcontractors manufacture, assemble and test our chips in Singapore, the Republic of China (Taiwan), Hong Kong, China, and the United States. These subcontractors currently have limited manufacturing capacity, which may be inadequate to meet our demand. If the operations of our subcontractors were halted, even temporarily, or if they were unable to operate at full capacity for an extended period of time, we could experience business interruption, increased costs, loss of goodwill and loss of customers. Delays in the manufacture of chipsets are typical in our industry, and we have experienced these delays in the past. The Asia-Pacific region has experienced significant earthquakes in the past and could be subject to additional seismic activities. Natural disasters, earthquakes, and regional epidemics, could also have a negative impact on our suppliers, and as a result significantly disrupt our operations. WE ARE DEPENDENT UPON A LIMITED NUMBER OF SUPPLIERS OF KEY COMPONENTS. We currently obtain key components from a single supplier or from a limited number of suppliers. We generally do not have long-term supply contracts with our suppliers. These factors subject us to the following risks: 15 o delays in delivery or shortages in components could interrupt and delay the manufacturing and delivery of our chipsets and may result in cancellation of orders by our customers; o suppliers could increase component prices significantly and with immediate effect; o we may not be able to develop alternative sources for chip set components, if and as required, in the future; o suppliers could discontinue the manufacture or supply of components used in our chipsets. In such event, we might need to modify our chipsets, which may cause delays in shipments, increased manufacturing costs and increased chipsets prices; and o we may hold more inventory than is immediately required to compensate for potential component shortages or discontinuance. WE MAY EXPERIENCE DELAYS IN THE DELIVERY OF COMPONENTS FROM OUR SUPPLIERS. Delays and shortages in the supply of components are typical in our industry. We have experienced delays and shortages on more than one occasion in the past. In addition, failure of worldwide semiconductor manufacturing capacity to rise along with a rise in demand could result in our subcontract manufacturers allocating available capacity to other customers, including customers that are larger or have long-term supply contracts in place. Our inability to obtain adequate foundry capacity at acceptable prices, or any delay or interruption in supply, could reduce our revenues or increase our cost of revenue and could harm our business and results of operations. THE EUROPEAN UNION HAS ISSUED DIRECTIVES RELATING TO THE SALE IN MEMBER COUNTRIES OF ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT, INCLUDING PRODUCTS SOLD BY US. IF OUR PRODUCTS FAIL TO COMPLY WITH THESE DIRECTIVES, WE COULD BE SUBJECT TO PENALTIES AND SANCTIONS THAT COULD MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. A directive issued by the European Union on the Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment, or "RoHS," came into effect on July 1, 2006. The RoHS directive lists a number of substances including, among others, lead, mercury, cadmium and hexavalent chromium, which must either be removed or reduced to within maximum permitted concentrations in any products containing electrical or electronic components that are sold within the European Union. Our products meet the requirements of the RoHS directive and we are making every effort in order to maintain compliance, without otherwise adversely affecting the quality and functionalities of our products. 16 We, like other manufacturers, are dependent on our suppliers for certain components and sub-system modules to comply with these requirements, and we may be required to pay higher prices for components that comply with this directive. In addition, compliance with the RoHS directive may require us to undertake significant expenses with respect to the re-design of our products. We may not be able to pass these higher component costs or redesign costs on to our customers. We cannot be sure that we will be able to comply with these regulations on a cost effective basis or that a sufficient supply of compliant components will be available to us. Our inability or failure to comply with these regulations, including by reason of failure by our suppliers to comply with the directive, may restrict us for a period of time from conducting certain business in the European Union and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. A further directive on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment, or "WEEE," approved by the European Union in 2003, promotes waste recovery with a view to reducing the quantity of waste for disposal and saving natural resources, in particular by reuse, recycling and recovery of waste electrical and electronic equipment. The WEEE directive covers all electrical and electronic equipment used by consumers and electronic equipment intended for professional use. The directive, which partly came into effect in August 2005, requires that all new electrical and electronic equipment put on the market in European Union be appropriately labeled regarding waste disposal and contains other obligations regarding the collection and recycling of waste electrical and electronic equipment. We support the WEEE and conform the industry standard practices wherever practical. If we fail to maintain compliance, we may be restricted from conducting certain business in the European Union, which could adversely affect our results of operations. The countries of the European Union, as a single market for our products, accounted in 2006 for approximately 44% of our revenues. If our products fail to comply with WEEE or RoHS directives or any other directive issued from time to time by the European Union, we could be subject to penalties and other sanctions that could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition. UNDETECTED HARDWARE AND SOFTWARE ERRORS MAY INCREASE OUR COSTS AND IMPAIR THE MARKET ACCEPTANCE OF OUR CHIPSETS. Our chipsets may contain undetected errors. This may result either from errors we have failed to detect or from errors in components supplied by third parties. These errors are likely to be found from time to time in new or enhanced chipsets after commencement of commercial shipments. Because our customers integrate our chipsets into their systems with components from other vendors, when problems occur in a system/product it may be difficult to identify the component which has caused the problem. Regardless of the source of these errors, we will need to divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts to address the detection of the errors. We may incur significant warranty and repair costs related to errors, and we may also be subject to liability claims for damages related to these errors. The occurrence of errors, whether caused by our chipsets or the components of another vendor, may result in significant customer relations problems and injury to our reputation and may impair the market acceptance of our chipsets. 17 OUR SUCCESS DEPENDS ON OUR ABILITY TO ATTRACT, TRAIN AND RETAIN QUALIFIED ENGINEERS, SALES AND TECHNICAL SUPPORT PERSONNEL. As our business develops, we will need to hire additional engineers and highly trained technical support personnel in Israel, North America, Europe and in the Asia Pacific region. We currently have a small technical support staff. To support any growth, we will need to increase our technical staff to support new customers and the expanding needs of existing customers as well as our continued research and development operations. Hiring highly qualified engineers and technical support personnel is competitive in our industry, due to the limited number of people available with the necessary skills and understanding of our products. Our success depends upon our ability to attract, train and retain highly qualified engineers and technical support personnel. Our chipsets require a sophisticated marketing and sales effort targeted at several levels within a prospective customer's organization. As competition for qualified sales personnel continues, we may not be able to hire sufficient sales personnel to support our marketing efforts. WE ARE DEPENDENT ON OUR KEY PERSONNEL, IN PARTICULAR TZVI SHUKHMAN, OUR CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, THE LOSS OF WHOM WOULD NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. Our future success depends in large part on the continued services of our senior management and key personnel. In particular, we are highly dependent on the services of Tzvi Shukhman, our chairman and chief executive officer. All of our employees have entered into employment contracts with us except for Mr. Shukhman. Although Mr. Shukhman does not have an employment agreement, the shareholders voted in December 2006 to approve his service as chairman of the board and chief executive officer for an additional one-year period. We do not carry key person life insurance on our senior management or key personnel. Any loss of the services of Tzvi Shukhman, other members of senior management or other key personnel could negatively affect our business. A MAJORITY OF THE COMPANY'S OUTSTANDING SHARES ARE HELD BY TWO INDIVIDUALS, WHO EXERT SIGNIFICANT CONTROL OVER THE COMPANY'S DIRECTION. At March 31, 2007, 10,508,654 of our ordinary shares (52.86%) were held by Messrs. Tzvi Shukhman and Uzi Rozenberg, who are directors of the Company. Mr. Shukhman is also our chairman and chief executive officer. Currently, Messrs. Shukhman and Rozenberg control the outcome of various actions that require shareholder approval. For example, these shareholders could elect all of our directors, delay or prevent a transaction in which shareholders might receive a premium over the prevailing market price for their shares and prevent changes in control or management. In 2003, we filed a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, covering the resale by Messrs. Shukhman and Rozenberg of 10,565,651 of our ordinary shares. Were they to sell all of those shares, they would no longer have the ability to direct the voting of those shares, and new management could be elected. 18 In addition, because these shares are held by affiliates of the Company, they are not generally considered to be included in the "public float" of the Company's tradable shares. The market price for all shares could drop significantly if and as these shares are sold, or if the market perceives that such a sale as imminent. OUR PROFITABILITY COULD SUFFER IF THIRD PARTIES INFRINGE UPON OUR PROPRIETARY TECHNOLOGY. Our profitability could suffer if third parties infringe upon our intellectual property rights or misappropriate our technologies or trademarks for their own businesses. To protect our intellectual property rights, we rely on a combination of patent, trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection, confidentiality agreements and other contractual arrangements with our employees, affiliates, strategic partners and others. We currently hold two patents in Israel and three patents in the United States. We have filed additional seven utility patent applications in the United States and a PCT (international) application. The protective steps we have taken may be inadequate to deter misappropriation of our proprietary information. We may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. Moreover, pursuant to current U.S. and Israeli laws, we may not be able to enforce existing non-competition agreements. Effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which we offer, or intend to offer, our products. Any failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could devalue our proprietary interest and impair our ability to compete effectively. Furthermore, defending our intellectual property rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. OUR PRODUCTS MAY INFRINGE ON THE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS OF OTHERS. Third parties may assert against us infringement claims or claims that we have violated a patent or infringed a copyright, trademark or other proprietary right belonging to them. For example, the ownership by an unaffiliated third party of a valid trademark with respect to the name Metalink, or the use of that name by any unaffiliated third party (whether or not a valid trademark exists), could cause confusion and otherwise have a material adverse effect upon our business and financial condition. We have received from time to time in the past written notices and offers from research institutions, intellectual property holding firms and others claiming to have patent rights in certain technology and inviting us to license this technology and related patent rights for use in our products and methods. Such notices have also been sent to our customers. We have responded directly, or indirectly through our customers, to all of these notices. None of these notices has resulted in litigation against us. We cannot assure you that any of these or other third-parties will not pursue litigation or assert their patent and other intellectual property rights against us in the future. We have certain indemnification obligations to customers with respect to infringement of third-party patents and intellectual property rights by our products. We cannot assure you that our potential obligations to indemnify such customers will not harm us, our business or our financial condition and results of operations. The results of any litigation are inherently uncertain. Any successful infringement claim or litigation against us could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. 19 OUR PRODUCTS MAY REQUIRE LICENSING OF THE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS OF OTHERS. We incorporate certain third party technology into our products, including memory cells, input/output cells, digital and analog cores. Were we unable to use or license these technologies on commercially viable terms, we could sustain damage to our margins. If these third party technologies contain or develop defects, we may be subject to warranty or other claims that could damage our business. WE MAY ENCOUNTER DIFFICULTIES WITH ACQUISITIONS, WHICH COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS. We may make investments in complementary companies, products or technologies. If we acquire a company, we may have difficulty integrating that company's personnel, operations, products and technologies. These difficulties may disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees and increase our expenses. VOLATILITY OF OUR SHARE PRICE COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR SHAREHOLDERS. The market price of our ordinary shares is likely to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors, including the following: o actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results or those of our competitors; o announcements by us or our competitors of technological innovations; o introduction and adoption of new industry standards; o introductions of new products by us or our competitors; o announcements by us or by securities analysts of changes in financial estimates; o conditions or trends in our industry; o changes in the market valuations of our competitors; o announcements by us or by our competitors of significant acquisitions; o entry into strategic partnerships or joint ventures by us or by our competitors; o additions or departures of key personnel; o change in the status of our intellectual property rights; o sales of ordinary shares; o stock market price and volume fluctuations; o announcements by us or by our competitors of significant events; or o sales by controlling shareholders. 20 Many of these factors are beyond our control and may materially adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares, regardless of our performance. As a result, investors may not be able to resell their ordinary shares following periods of volatility because of the market's adverse reaction to that volatility. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for Israeli and technology companies in particular, has been highly volatile. We cannot assure you that our ordinary shares will trade at the same levels of shares of other technology companies or that shares of technology companies in general will sustain their current market prices. OUR ORDINARY SHARES ARE LISTED FOR TRADING ON MORE THAN ONE MARKET AND THIS MAY RESULT IN PRICE VARIATIONS. Our ordinary shares have been listed for trading on the NASDAQ Global Market, or NASDAQ, since December 2, 1999. As of December 3, 2000, our ordinary shares have also been listed for trading on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange, or TASE. Trading in our ordinary shares on these markets is made in different currencies (U.S. dollars on NASDAQ and New Israeli Shekels on TASE) and at different times (resulting from different time zones, different trading days and different public holidays in the United States and Israel). The trading prices of our ordinary shares on these two markets often differ, resulting from the factors described above, as well as differences in exchange rates. Any decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on one of these markets could cause a decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on the other market. Volatility of the price of our ordinary shares on either market is likely to be reflected on the price of our ordinary shares on the other market. IF WE ARE CHARACTERIZED AS A PASSIVE FOREIGN INVESTMENT COMPANY, OUR U.S. SHAREHOLDERS MAY SUFFER ADVERSE TAX CONSEQUENCES. If, for any taxable year, our passive income, or our assets that produce passive income, exceed specified levels, we may be characterized as a Passive Foreign Investment Company ("PFIC") for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We were a PFIC during the years 2002 and 2003, but not in the years 2004, 2005 and 2006. We have not yet determined whether we are likely to be characterized as a PFIC for 2007. These considerations, and other tax considerations, are described in additional detail under the caption "Taxation" at Item 10(E) of this Report. 21 WE HAVE NOT YET COMPLETED OUR EVALUATION OF OUR INTERNAL CONTROLS OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING UNDER SECTION 404 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT. We are considered a "non-accelerated filer" under applicable SEC rules. As such, we are required to comply with the internal control evaluation and certification requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 in the following manner: (1) reporting by management under Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will be required for the fiscal year ending on December 31, 2007, and (2) attestation by our independent auditors under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will be required for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2008. We have begun to evaluate whether our existing internal controls over financial reporting systems are compliant with Section 404. As a result of this evaluation, we may be required to implement new internal control procedures over financial reporting. We may also experience higher than anticipated operating expenses and fees in this context and may require additional commitment of management's time. Further, we may need to hire additional qualified personnel in order to achieve compliance with Section 404. If we are unable to implement these changes effectively or efficiently, or if our internal controls are found to be ineffective in future periods, it could harm our operations, financial reporting or financial results and could result in our being unable to obtain an unqualified report on internal controls from our independent auditors. 22 RISKS RELATING TO OUR LOCATION IN ISRAEL CONDITIONS IN ISRAEL AFFECT OUR OPERATIONS AND MAY LIMIT OUR ABILITY TO PRODUCE AND SELL OUR PRODUCTS. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel, and our principal offices and research and development facilities are located in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel directly affect our operations. Over the past several decades, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors and a state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Since late 2000, there has been a high level of violence between Israel and the Palestinians which has strained Israel's relationship with its Arab citizens, Arab countries and, to some extent, with other countries around the world. The recent election of representatives of the Hamas movement to a majority of the seats in the Palestinian Legislative Council has created additional unrest and uncertainty in the region. Further, in the summer of 2006, Israel engaged in a war with Hezbollah, a Lebanese Islamist Shiite militia group, which involved thousands of missile strikes and disrupted most day-to-day civilian activity in northern Israel. Any armed conflicts or political instability in the region, including acts of terrorism or any other hostilities involving or threatening Israel, would likely negatively affect business conditions and could make it more difficult for us to conduct our operations in Israel, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our financial results. SOME OF OUR DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS AS WELL AS MANY OF OUR ISRAELI EMPLOYEES ARE OBLIGATED TO PERFORM ANNUAL MILITARY RESERVE DUTY IN ISRAEL. WE CANNOT ASSESS THE POTENTIAL IMPACT OF THESE OBLIGATIONS ON OUR BUSINESS. Some of our directors, officers and employees are currently obligated to perform annual reserve duty and are subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances and could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of time of one or more of our officers or key employees, or a significant number of other employees because of military service. The full impact on our workforce or business if some of our officers and employees are called upon to perform military service, especially in times of national emergency, is difficult to predict. Any disruption in our operations as the result of military service by directors, officers or employees could harm our business. 23 PROVISIONS OF ISRAELI LAW MAY DELAY, PREVENT OR COMPLICATE MERGER OR ACQUISITION ACTIVITY, WHICH COULD DEPRESS THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR SHARES. Provisions of Israeli corporate and tax law may have the effect of delaying, preventing or making an acquisition of our company more difficult. For example, under the Companies Law, upon the request of a creditor of either party to a proposed merger, the court may delay or prevent the merger if it concludes that there exists a reasonable concern that as a result of the merger the surviving company will be unable to satisfy the obligations of any of the parties to the merger. This could cause our ordinary shares to trade at prices below the price for which third parties might be willing to pay to gain control of us since third parties who are otherwise willing to pay a premium over prevailing market prices to gain control of us may be unable or unwilling to do so because of these provisions of Israeli law. See Item 10(B). "Additional Information - Memorandum and Articles of Association - Change of Control." BECAUSE SUBSTANTIALLY ALL OF OUR REVENUES ARE GENERATED IN U.S. DOLLARS WHILE A SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF OUR EXPENSES ARE INCURRED IN NEW ISRAELI SHEKELS (NIS) OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS MAY BE SERIOUSLY HARMED IF THE RATE OF INFLATION IN ISRAEL EXCEEDS THE RATE OF DEVALUATION OF THE NIS AGAINST THE U.S. DOLLAR OR IF THE NIS IS APPRECIATED AGAINST THE U.S. DOLLAR. We generate substantially all of our revenues in dollars, but we incur a significant portion of our expenses, principally salaries, related personnel expenses and occupancy expenses in NIS. As a result, we are exposed to the risk that our dollar costs in Israel will increase if the rate of inflation in Israel will exceed the rate of devaluation of the NIS in relation to the dollar or that the timing of this devaluation lags behind inflation in Israel or that the NIS is appreciated against the dollar. Historically, over time, the NIS has been devalued against the dollar, generally reflecting inflation rate differentials. However, in 2006, the dollar depreciated against the NIS by 8.2%, while inflation decreased by 0.1%. As a result, our expenses increased in dollar terms. Likewise, our operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to guard against currency fluctuations in the future. To date, we have not engaged in hedging transactions. In the future, we might enter into currency hedging transactions to decrease the risk of financial exposure from fluctuations in the exchange rate of the dollar against the NIS. We cannot guarantee that we will enter into such transactions in the future or that such measures will adequately protect us from serious harm due to the impact of inflation in Israel. IT MAY BE DIFFICULT TO ENFORCE A U.S. JUDGMENT AGAINST US, OUR OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS OR TO ASSERT U.S. SECURITIES LAWS CLAIMS IN ISRAEL. We are incorporated in Israel, the majority of our executive officers and directors are nonresidents of the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. Consequently, service of process upon our directors and officers named herein may be difficult to effect within the United States because some of these people reside outside the United States. In addition, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or these individuals or entities may not be enforceable within the United States. 24 It may be difficult to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws because Israel is not the most appropriate forum to bring such a claim. In addition, even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact, which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. There is little binding case law in Israel addressing these matters. Subject to specified time limitations, Israeli courts may enforce a U.S. final judgment in a civil matter, provided that: o the judgment is enforceable in the state in which it was given; o adequate service of process has been effected and the defendant has had a reasonable opportunity to be heard; o the judgment and its enforcement are not contrary to the law, public policy, security or sovereignty of the State of Israel; o the judgment was not obtained by fraudulent means and does not conflict with any other valid judgment in the same matter between the same parties; and o an action between the same parties in the same matter is not pending in any Israeli court at the time the lawsuit is instituted in the U.S. court. WE DERIVE CERTAIN TAX BENEFITS UNDER ISRAELI LAW FROM OUR STATUS AS AN "APPROVED ENTERPRISE", IN ADDITION TO OTHER TAX AND PROGRAM BENEFITS UNDER ISRAELI LAW. SUCH BENEFITS MAY REQUIRE US TO SATISFY CERTAIN CONDITIONS, OR MAY BE REDUCED OR ELIMINATED IN THE FUTURE. OUR POTENTIAL TAX LIABILITY COULD INCREASE IF WE FAIL TO MEET SUCH CONDITIONS, OR IF SUCH PROGRAMS ARE REDUCED OR ELIMINATED. Several of our capital investments have been granted "approved enterprise" status under the Israeli Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959, or the Investments Law. An approved enterprise is eligible for tax benefits on taxable income derived from its approved enterprise programs. The benefits available to an approved enterprise are dependent upon the fulfillment of conditions stipulated in applicable law and the certificate of approval. If we fail to comply with these conditions, in whole or in part, with respect to any approved enterprise program we establish, we may be required to pay additional taxes for the period in which we benefited from the tax exemption or reduced tax rates and we would likely be denied these benefits in the future. This could harm our business and our profitability. In addition, the Israeli government may reduce or eliminate in the future tax benefits available to approved enterprise programs. Our approved enterprise program and the tax benefits thereunder may not continue in the future at their current levels or at any level. The termination or reduction of these tax benefits would likely increase our taxes. 25 SINCE WE RECEIVE GOVERNMENT GRANTS FOR RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENDITURES, WE ARE SUBJECT TO ONGOING RESTRICTIONS AND CONDITIONS, INCLUDING RESTRICTIONS ON OUR ABILITY TO MANUFACTURE PRODUCTS AND TRANSFER TECHNOLOGIES OUTSIDE OF ISRAEL. SUCH GRANTS MAY BE TERMINATED OR REDUCED IN THE FUTURE, WHICH WOULD INCREASE OUR COSTS. We have received royalty-bearing grants from the Government of Israel through the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor for the financing of a significant portion of our research and development expenditures in Israel and we intend to apply for additional grants in the future. To maintain our eligibility for these grants we must continue to meet several conditions under the grant programs, including paying royalties with respect to the grants received. If we fail to comply with any of the conditions imposed by the Chief Scientist, we may be required to refund any payments previously received, together with interest and penalties. In addition, the terms of the Chief Scientist grants limit our ability to manufacture products or transfer technologies, outside of Israel, if such products or technologies were developed using know-how developed with or based upon Chief Scientist grants. Any non-Israeli who becomes a holder of 5% or more of our share capital is generally required to notify the Chief Scientist and to undertake to observe the law governing the grant programs of the Chief Scientist, the principal restrictions of which are the transferability limits described above in this paragraph. These programs may not continue in the future at their current levels or at any level. From time to time, we may submit requests for new grants from the Chief Scientist. These requests might not be approved, particularly in light of the reduction in government spending in Israel. The termination or reduction of these grants could materialy harm our financial condition and results of operations. 26 