Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following are risks that we view as being among the most significant to our operations and financial results. This list should not be considered as an all-inclusive assessment of risks, nor should the order in which risks are presented below be considered representative of that risk’s significance to our operations. Interest Rates and Other Macroeconomic Factors. Our profitability is largely dependent on our net interest income. Consequently, one of our primary exposures to risk arises from the interest rate risk inherent in our lending, mortgage banking, investment, deposit, and borrowing activities. Interest rate risk is the risk to earnings and capital resulting from adverse movements in interest rates. Please see Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk,” in Part II for additional information on our interest rate risk management practices. In addition to affecting our asset yields and funding costs, and thus our net interest income, movements in interest rates can impact our performance in other ways, including, but not limited to influencing the overall level of loan originations and deposit demand, loan payoff rates, and the market values of assets, which could affect loan sales and gains thereon, as well as future servicing fee income. While we actively monitor and manage our exposure to this risk, we would point out that interest rates are highly sensitive to factors outside of our control, including but not limited to general economic conditions, behaviors of capital market participants, and the actions or expected actions of regulatory and government agencies, including the Federal Reserve Bank. Macroeconomic factors outside of interest rate movements can further impact our profitability. For example, economic downturns can threaten the ability of borrowers to repay their loans and reduce collateral values, while rising stock markets can lead to investors shifting funds out of deposit accounts and into equity markets. 34 Geographic Concentration and Local Economic Conditions. The vast majority of our funding, lending, and management activities are based in the Puget Sound region, primarily on the east side of Lake Washington. Consequently, in addition to the potential effects of adverse movements in interest rates or events in the national economy, our profitability could be disrupted by local or regional economic factors impacting our market area, including, but not limited to local unemployment rates, vacancy rates, and slowdowns in the local housing and construction markets. Credit Risk and Loan Losses Exceeding Allowance. Credit risk is the risk of our borrowers failing to repay the principal and/or interest in accordance with the terms of their loan agreements. Our lending operations subject us to credit risk, including particular risks pertaining to our consumer, custom construction, and non-conforming residential loans., We generally manage our credit risk through our underwriting standards and, as deemed appropriate, the purchase of credit insurance coverage. To the extent that payments are not received from our borrowers in a timely manner, their loans are moved to non-accrual status and eventually charged-off. We establish, based upon various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of loans, a reserve for loan losses, which could potentially be insufficient to cover extraordinary losses. To the extent that charged-off loans exceed the expected amount set aside for such occurrences, our financial results would be negatively impacted. Please refer to “Lending Activities,” and “Reserve for Loan Losses,” in Part I, Item 1 for additional information. Operational Risks. As is the case with most financial institutions, we are exposed to many forms of operational risk, including, but not limited to transaction, compliance, strategic, and reputation risks. Transaction risk is defined as the risk to earnings or capital arising from problems with service or product delivery. Transaction risk exists in all products and services within the bank, and is a function of our internal controls, information systems, employee integrity, and operating processes. The risk for operating problems arises on a daily basis as transactions are processed. Thus, transaction risk transcends all of our divisions and all products we offer. Compliance risk is the risk to earnings and capital arising from violations of or nonconformance with laws, rules, regulations, prescribed practices, or ethical standards, and exposes the bank to potential fines, civil money penalties, payment of damages, and voiding of contracts. Compliance risk can lead to a diminished reputation, limited business opportunities, and lessened expansion potential. Compliance risk is not limited solely to risk from failure to comply with consumer protection laws, as it also includes all laws as well as prudent ethical standards and contractual obligations. In addition, compliance risk includes the exposure to litigation from all aspects of banking. Strategic risk is the risk to earnings or capital arising from adverse business decisions or improper implementation of those decisions. Strategic risk is a function of our strategic goals, the business strategies developed to achieve these goals, the resources deployed to meet these goals, and how well the strategies are implemented. Strategic risk focuses on more than just an analysis of the strategic plan. It focuses on how our plans, systems, and implementation affect our franchise value, and incorporates how management analyzes external factors that impact our strategic direction. Our growth objectives may, to some extent, be dependent on the introduction of new products, services, or banking centers. As the market reception of new products, services, or facilities can be difficult to estimate, and those estimates may change over the course of the timeframe during which the product or facility is developed, there can be no assurances as to the future development, implementation, and profitability of such ventures. Reputation risk is the risk to earnings or capital arising from the potential that negative publicity regarding our business practices, whether true or not, will cause a decline in the customer base and/or costly litigation. Reputation risk affects our ability to establish new relationships or services and to continue servicing existing relationships. The risk can potentially expose us to litigation, financial loss, or other damage to our reputation. Reputation risk exposure exists 35 throughout an organization and is the reason that banks have the responsibility to exercise an abundance of caution in dealing with customers and their communities. Reputation risk exists in activities such as asset management and agency transactions. The assessment of reputation risk recognizes the potential impact of the public’s opinion on our franchise value. Reputation risk is inherent in all bank activities. As our vulnerability to public reaction increases, our ability to offer competitive products and services could potentially be affected. The banking industry is subject to rapid technological change and we will need to keep pace with the evolving technological requirements of the financial services industry. Such technological improvement involves substantial cost and risks. We are dependent on data processing, communication, and information exchange on a variety of computer platforms and networks, and we cannot be assured that our systems are free of defects or vulnerabilities to attack. If informational security is breached, information could be lost or misappropriated, resulting in the potential for financial loss or loss of reputation. Additionally, significant facets of our operations are dependent on a relatively small group of experienced key executives and an experienced and very involved Board of Directors. Consequently, we believe that the loss of key management personnel could potentially result in an adverse effect our operations and earnings. Increased Competition. We operate in a highly competitive environment, with a large and growing number of other market participants, many of which are significantly larger and possess greater financial resources than we do. From time to time, and for various reasons, one or more of these competitors may approach the market more aggressively, typically through offers of either higher rates on deposits or lower margins on loans. In either case, responding to such competitive actions will typically result in a negative impact to our financial results, either through reduced revenues, higher costs, or, should we decide not to compete aggressively, slower growth. Potential Legislative or Regulatory Changes. As a depository institution, we are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision, and legislation that govern virtually every aspect of our operations. These laws and regulations are subject to change over time, typically for the increased protection of consumers, depositors, and deposit insurance funds. Such changes, which are beyond our control and frequently unpredictable, could have the potential to adversely impact our operations or financial performance. Natural Disaster. As previously noted, the vast majority of our funding, lending, and management activities are based in the Puget Sound region, primarily on the east side of Lake Washington. This region is known to be a seismic area, and the potential exists for a natural disaster, such as an earthquake, to negatively impact our performance by disrupting our operations, damaging our facilities, or damaging facilities owned by our borrowers, thus impacting their activities and ability to service debt, as well as potentially reducing the value of our collateral. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 36 Item 