Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks involved in Bancorp’s construction and commercial real estate loan portfolios are material. Commercial real estate and construction loans generally have more risk than residential mortgage loans. Both commercial real estate and construction loans often involve larger loan balances concentrated with single borrowers or groups of related borrowers as compared to single-family residential loans. Construction loans are secured by the property under construction, the value of which is uncertain prior to completion. Thus, it is more difficult to evaluate accurately the total loan funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratios. Speculative construction loans involve additional risk because the builder does not have a contract for the sale of the property at the time of construction. Because the repayment of commercial real estate and construction loans depends on the successful management and operation of the borrower’s properties or related businesses, repayments of such loans can be affected by adverse conditions in the real estate market or local economy as have been experienced in Bancorp’s market area. The downturn in the real estate market within Bancorp’s market area has and may continue to adversely impact the value of properties securing these loans. Bancorp’s ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the underlying real estate may be diminished, and Bancorp is more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. A significant portion of Bancorp’s total loan portfolio is secured by real estate located in Fairfield County, Connecticut and Westchester County, New York, areas historically of high affluence that have been materially impacted by the financial troubles experienced by Wall Street. Real estate lending in Bancorp’s core Fairfield County, Connecticut market involves risks related to a decline in value of commercial and residential real estate. The market value of real estate can fluctuate significantly in a relatively short period of time as a result of market conditions in the geographic area in which the real estate is located. The value of the real estate serving as collateral for the Bank’s loan portfolio has and may continue to decline materially, and transactional liquidity has materially slowed putting additional pressure on pricing. Accordingly, a significant part of the Bank’s loan portfolio could become under-collateralized and the Bank may not be able to realize the amount of security that the Bank anticipated at the time of originating the loan. Credit markets have become tight and underwriting standards more strict, and the inability of purchasers of real estate to obtain financing may further weaken the real estate market. Therefore, these loans may be subject to changes in grade, classification, accrual status, foreclosure, or loss which could have an effect on the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses. 10 Bancorp’s business is subject to various lending and other economic risks that could adversely impact Bancorp’s results of operations and financial condition. Changes in economic conditions, particularly a continued economic slowdown in Fairfield County, Connecticut and the New York metropolitan area, could hurt Bancorp’s financial performance. Bancorp’s business is directly affected by political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes and changes in governmental monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond Bancorp’s control. A further deterioration in economic conditions, in particular an economic slowdown within Fairfield County, Connecticut and/or the New York metropolitan area, could result in the following consequences, any of which may hurt the business of Bancorp materially: loan delinquencies may increase; problem assets and foreclosures may increase; demand for the Bank’s products and services may decline; and assets and collateral associated with the Bank’s loans, especially real estate, may decline in value, thereby reducing a customer’s borrowing power. Beginning in 2007 and worsening through 2008 and into 2009, the general economic conditions and specific business conditions in the United States including Fairfield County, Connecticut have deteriorated resulting in increases in loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures and declines in the value and collateral associated with the Bank’s loans. A prolonged period of economic recession or worsening of these adverse economic conditions may have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The Bank may suffer losses in its loan portfolio despite its underwriting practices. The Bank seeks to mitigate the risks inherent in its loan portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting practices. These practices include analysis of a borrower’s prior credit history, financial statements, tax returns and cash flow projections, valuation of collateral based on reports of independent appraisers and verification of liquid assets. Although the Bank believes that its underwriting criteria is appropriate for the various types of loans the Bank makes, the Bank may still incur losses on loans, and these losses may exceed the amounts set aside as reserves in the allowance for loan losses. Bancorp is Subject to a Formal Agreement with the OCC The Bank is subject to a formal agreement with the OCC entered into in February 2009. The agreement is based on the results of an annual examination by the OCC. The agreement provides for, among other things, the enhancement and implementation of certain programs to reduce the Bank’s credit risk, commercial real estate loan concentration and level of criticized assets, along with the augmentation of a profit plan and three-year capital program. Additionally, the agreement provides for certain asset growth restrictions for a limited period of time. The Bank does not anticipate that these restrictions will impair its current business plan. However, failure to comply with the provisions of the Agreement could result in more severe enforcement actions and further restrictions. 11 Bancorp’s allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. Like all financial institutions, the Bank maintains an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance. Experience in the banking industry indicates that a portion of the Bank’s loans in all categories of its lending business will become delinquent, and some may only be partially repaid or may never be repaid at all. The Bank’s allowance in recent years has reflected the Bank’s historically strong credit quality. If economic conditions further deteriorate, the allowance for loan losses may no longer be adequate to cover actual loan losses; future provisions for loan losses may become necessary which could materially and adversely affect Bancorp’s operating results. The allowance for loan losses is based on an evaluation of the risks associated with the Bank’s loans receivable as well as the Bank’s prior loss experience. A substantial portion of the Bank’s loans are unseasoned and lack an established record of performance. Deterioration in general economic conditions and unforeseen risks affecting customers will have an adverse effect on borrowers’ capacity to repay timely their obligations before risk grades could reflect those changing conditions. The recent adverse changes in economic and market conditions in the Bank’s market areas increase the risk that the allowance will become inadequate if borrowers continue to experience economic and other conditions adverse to their incomes and businesses. Maintaining the adequacy of the Bank’s allowance for loan losses may require that the Bank make significant and unanticipated increases in our provisions for loan losses, which would materially affect our results of operations and capital adequacy. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond the Bank’s control and these losses may exceed current estimates. The current recessionary economic environment creates additional risk of loan losses. Federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review the Bank’s loans and assess the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses. The regulatory agencies may require us to change classifications or grades on loans, increase the allowance for loan losses with large provisions for loan losses and to recognize further loan charge-offs based upon their judgments, which may differ from ours. Any increase in the allowance for loan losses required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition. During 2008, the Bank significantly increased its allowance for loan losses based on management’s evaluation of the current economic crisis and its impact on the Bank’s real estate market and its primary federal regulator’s recommendations. While management believes that the allowance for loan losses is currently adequate to cover anticipated losses, management cannot assure shareholders that there will not be a need to increase the allowance for loan losses or that the regulators will not require management to increase this allowance. Either of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect Bancorp’s earnings and profitability. 12 Bancorp’s business is subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively affect Bancorp’s financial performance. Bancorp is unable to predict fluctuations of market interest rates, which are affected by many factors including: inflation, recession, a rise in unemployment, a tightening money supply, domestic and international disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. Changes in the interest rate environment may reduce Bancorp’s profits. Bancorp realizes income from the differential or “spread” between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. Net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and repricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Bancorp is vulnerable to a decrease in interest rates because its interest-earning assets generally have shorter durations than its interest-bearing liabilities. As a result, material and prolonged decreases in interest rates would decrease Bancorp’s net interest income. In contrast, an increase in the general level of interest rates may adversely affect the ability of some borrowers to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations. Like most financial institutions, Bancorp is affected by changes in interest rates, which are currently at record low levels, and by other economic factors beyond Bancorp’s control. Although Bancorp has implemented strategies which are designed to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on operations, these strategies may not always be successful. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect Bancorp’s net interest spread, asset quality, levels of prepayments and cash flow as well as the market value of its securities portfolio and overall profitability. Mortgage brokerage activity is also affected by interest rate fluctuations. Generally, increases in interest rates often lead to decreases in home refinancing activity, thus reducing the number of mortgage loans that Bancorp originates. Bancorp’s investment portfolio includes securities which are sensitive to interest rates and variations in interest rates may adversely impact Bancorp’s profitability. Bancorp’s securities portfolio is classified as available-for-sale, and is comprised of mortgage-backed securities, which are insured or guaranteed by U.S. government agencies or government-sponsored enterprises, U.S. government agency obligation and auction rate preferred equity securities. These securities are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations. Unrealized gains or losses in the available-for-sale portfolio for securities other than those for which other-than-temporary impairment charges have been recorded are reported as a separate component of shareholders’ equity. As a result, future interest rate fluctuations may impact shareholders’ equity, causing material fluctuations from quarter to quarter. Failure to hold its securities until payments are received on mortgage-backed securities, other investments mature or market conditions are favorable for a sale could adversely affect Bancorp’s earnings and profitability. 13 Bancorp is dependent on its management team, and the loss of its senior executive officers or other key employees could impair its relationship with its customers and adversely affect its business and financial results. Bancorp’s success is dependent upon the continued services and skills of Angelo De Caro, Charles F. Howell, Robert F. O’Connell, Philip W. Wolford and other senior officers including Martin G. Noble, its chief lender, and John Kantzas, a founder and an executive vice president. While Bancorp has employment agreements containing non-competition provisions with Messrs. Howell and O’Connell, these agreements do not prevent them from terminating their employment with Bancorp. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of these key personnel could have an adverse impact on Bancorp’s business because of their skills, knowledge of Bancorp’s market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. Bancorp’s success also depends, in part, on its continued ability to attract and retain experienced commercial lenders and residential mortgage originators, as well as other management personnel. The loss of the services of several of such key personnel could adversely affect Bancorp’s growth and prospects to the extent it is unable to quickly replace such personnel. Competition for commercial lenders and residential mortgage originators is strong within the commercial banking and mortgage banking industries, and Bancorp may not be successful in retaining or attracting personnel. Bancorp has expanded into a new geographic market in which current senior management has limited experience. Bancorp has recently expanded into Westchester County and New York City, New York. The Bank currently has three branch offices in New York. The vast majority of Bancorp’s deposits and loans are derived from and made to customers who live and work in Fairfield County, Connecticut. Although management believes that the demographics for Westchester County, New York closely resemble those of Fairfield County Connecticut, the Bank has not previously conducted significant deposit generating activity in New York State. The senior management team includes several individuals with substantial banking experience in Connecticut, but with less experience in New York. Bancorp’s ability to compete effectively in New York State will depend in part on management’s ability to hire and retain key employees who have extensive banking experience in Westchester County. A breach of information security could negatively affect Bancorp’s earnings. Bancorp increasingly depends upon data processing, communications and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks, and over the internet to conduct its business. Bancorp cannot be certain that all of its systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack, despite safeguards it has instituted. In addition, Bancorp relies on the services of a variety of vendors to meet its data processing and communication needs. If information security is breached, information can be lost or misappropriated; this could result in financial loss or costs to Bancorp or damages to others. These costs or losses could materially exceed the amount of insurance coverage, if any, which would have an adverse effect on Bancorp’s results of 14 operations and financial condition. In addition, the Bank’s reputation could be harmed, which also could materially adversely affect Bancorp’s financial condition and results of operation. Risks Related to Bancorp’s Industry The enactment of recent legislation, including the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (“EESA”) and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”) may significantly affect Bancorp’s financial condition and results of operations. EESA, which established the Troubled Assets Relief Program (“TARP”), was signed into law on October 3, 2008. As part of TARP, the Treasury established the Capital Purchase Program (the “CPP”) to provide up to $700 billion of funding to eligible financial institutions through the purchase of capital stock and other financial instruments for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. On February 17, 2009, President Obama signed ARRA, a sweeping economic recovery package intended to stimulate the economy and provide for broad infrastructure needs. There can be no assurance as to the actual impact that EESA or its programs, including the CPP, and ARRA or its programs, will have on the national economy or financial markets or, specifically, on the operations and business of Bancorp and the Bank. The failure of these significant legislative measures to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect Bancorp’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. There have been numerous actions undertaken in connection with or following EESA and ARRA by the Federal Reserve Board, Congress, the Treasury, the FDIC, the SEC and others in efforts to address the current liquidity and credit crisis in the financial industry, including homeowner relief that encourages loan restructuring and modification and the lowering of the federal funds rate and other efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. The purpose of these legislative and regulatory actions is to help stabilize the U.S. banking system. EESA, ARRA and the other regulatory initiatives described above may not have their desired effects. If the volatility in the markets continues and economic conditions fail to improve or worsen, Bancorp’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected Bancorp’s industry. Bancorp is exposed to downturns in the U.S. economy, and particularly the local markets in which it operates in Connecticut and New York. Declines in the housing market over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage and construction loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including other financial institutions. This market turmoil and the tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reductions in business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on 15 consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has adversely affected Bancorp’s business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and other financial institutions. In particular: · We expect to face increased regulation of our industry, including the provisions of the EESA and ARRA. Compliance with such regulations may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. We cannot predict how large these costs will be or how expansive any such limitations will be. · Economic conditions may continue to affect market confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies, which could affect our charge-offs and provision for loan losses. · The ability to assess the creditworthiness of the Bank’s customers or to estimate the values of collateral for loans may be impaired if the models and approaches we use become less predictive of future behaviors, valuations, assumptions or estimates due to the unpredictable economic climate. · Increasing consolidation of financial services companies as a result of current market conditions could have unexpected adverse effects upon our ability to compete effectively. · We will be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums. Market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and the FDIC has proposed a revised risk-based deposit insurance assessment schedule. Strong competition within Bancorp’s market area may limit the growth and profitability of the Company. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. The Fairfield County, Connecticut and the New York City metropolitan areas have a high concentration of financial institutions including large money center and regional banks, community banks and credit unions. Some of Bancorp’s competitors offer products and services that the Bank currently does not offer, such as private banking and trust services. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than Bancorp and may offer certain services that Bancorp does not or cannot provide. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in the Bank earning less on its loans and paying more for deposits, which reduces net interest income. Bancorp expects competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes. Bancorp’s profitability depends upon its continued ability to successfully compete in its market area. 16 Government regulation may have an adverse effect on Bancorp’s profitability and growth. Bancorp is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency as the Bank’s chartering authority, by the FDIC, as insurer of the deposits, and by the Federal Reserve Board as regulator of Bancorp. Changes in state and federal banking laws and regulations or in federal monetary policies could adversely affect the Bank’s ability to maintain profitability and continue to grow and, in light of recent economic conditions, such changes are expected but cannot be predicted. For example, new legislation or regulation could limit the manner in which Bancorp may conduct its business, including the Bank’s ability to obtain financing, attract deposits, make loans and achieve satisfactory interest spreads. Many of these regulations are intended to protect depositors, the public and the FDIC, not shareholders. In addition, the burden imposed by federal and state regulations may place Bancorp at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors who are less regulated. The laws, regulations, interpretations and enforcement policies that apply to Bancorp have been subject to significant, and sometimes retroactively applied, changes in recent years, and may change significantly in the future. Future legislation or government policy may also adversely affect the banking industry or Bancorp’s operations. Changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure. Laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, SEC regulations and NASDAQ rules, have added to the responsibilities that companies, such as Bancorp, have. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could make compliance more difficult and result in higher costs. Bancorp is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, Bancorp’s efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Bancorp’s reputation may be harmed if it does not continue to comply with these laws, regulations and standards. The earnings of financial institutions are significantly affected by general business and economic conditions. As a financial institution, Bancorp’s operations and profitability are impacted by general business and economic conditions in the United States and abroad. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, money supply, political issues, legislative and regulatory changes and the strength of the U.S. economy and the local economies in which we operate, all of which are beyond Bancorp’s control. In 2008 and continuing into 2009, the banking world has experienced unprecedented upheaval, including the failure of some of the leading financial institutions in the world. Further deterioration in economic conditions could result in an increase in loan delinquencies and non-performing assets, decreases in loan collateral values and a decrease in demand for the Bank’s products and services, among other things, any of which could have a material adverse impact on Bancorp’s results of operations and financial condition and for which Bancorp cannot currently predict or implement plans to combat. 17 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Bancorp has no unresolved comments from the SEC staff. Item 