ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in the Company’s common stock involves various risks. The Company has identified the following material risks affecting its business. These risk factors may cause our future earnings to be lower or our financial condition to be less favorable than the Company expects. In addition, other risks of which the Company is not aware, which relate to the banking and financial services industries in general, or which it does not believe are material, may cause earnings to be lower, or hurt the Company’s future financial condition. The Company may not be able to successfully manage continued growth. The Company intends to seek further growth in the level of assets and deposits and may consider expanding the branch network in the future. The Company may not be able to manage increased levels of assets and liabilities, and an expanded branch system, without increased expenses and higher levels of nonperforming assets. The Company may be required to make additional investments in equipment and personnel to manage higher asset levels and loan balances and a larger branch network, which may adversely impact earnings, shareholder returns and efficiency ratio. Increases in operating expenses or nonperforming assets may have an adverse impact on the value of the Company’s common stock. The Company has a lower level of “core deposits” and a higher level of wholesale funding, relative to peer institutions. Over the past several years, the Company has achieved significant growth in our loan portfolio. Because the Company’s deposits have not grown at similar rates, we have had to supplement our funding sources to include the use of the national market to attract funds. During an environment when interest rates are rising and the related U.S. Treasury interest rate curve is flattening, the use of this funding source may result an increase in interest costs disproportionate to loan yields. This results in less net interest income. The Company’s concentrations of loans may create a greater risk of loan defaults and losses. A substantial portion of the Company’s loans are secured by real estate in the Company’s market areas in Maryland. It also has a significant amount of commercial real estate loans. While Management believes that the commercial real estate concentration risk is mitigated by diversification among the types and characteristics of real estate collateral properties, sound underwriting practices, and ongoing portfolio monitoring and market analysis, the repayments of these loans usually depends on the successful operation of a business or the sale of the underlying property. As a result, these loans are more likely to be adversely affected by adverse conditions in the real estate market or the economy in general. The remaining loans in the loan portfolio are commercial or industrial loans. These loans are collateralized by various business assets the value of which may decline during adverse market conditions. These loans are also susceptible to adverse economic conditions. Adverse conditions in the real estate market and the economy may result in increasing levels of loan charge-offs and non performing assets and the reduction of earnings. Commercial and commercial real estate loans tend to have larger balances than residential mortgage loans. Because the loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial and commercial real estate with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans may cause a significant increase in nonperforming assets. An increase in nonperforming loans could result in: a loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses, or an increase in loan charge-offs, which could have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Further, under guidance adopted by the federal banking regulators, banks which have concentrations in construction, land development or commercial real estate loans (other than loans for majority owner occupied properties) would be expected to maintain higher levels of risk management and, potentially, higher levels of capital. It is possible that the Bank may be required to maintain higher levels of capital than it would otherwise be expected to maintain as a result of the Bank’s levels of commercial real estate loans, which may require the Company to obtain additional capital sooner than it would otherwise seek it, which may reduce shareholder returns. 13 The Company’s financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected if its allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to absorb actual losses or if it is required to increase the allowance for loan losses. Although the Company believes that the allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level adequate to absorb any inherent losses in the loan portfolio, these estimates of loan losses are necessarily subjective and their accuracy depends on the outcome of future events. If the Company needs to make significant and unanticipated increases in the loss allowance in the future, its results of operations and financial condition would be materially adversely affected at that time. While the Company strives to carefully monitor credit quality and to identify loans that may become nonperforming, at any time there are loans included in the portfolio that will result in losses, but that have not been identified as nonperforming or potential problem loans. The Company cannot be sure that it will be able to identify deteriorating loans before they become nonperforming assets, or that it will be able to limit losses on those loans that are identified. As a result, future additions to the allowance may be necessary. The Company’s continued growth depends on our ability to meet minimum regulatory capital levels. Growth and shareholder returns may be adversely affected if sources of capital are not available to help the Company meet them. The Company is required to maintain its regulatory capital levels at or above the required minimum levels. If earnings do not meet current estimates, if it incur unanticipated losses or expenses, or if it grows faster than expected, the Company may need to obtain additional capital sooner than expected, through borrowing, additional issuances of debt or equity securities, or otherwise. If it does not have continued access to sufficient capital, it may be required to reduce its level of assets or reduce its rate of growth in order to maintain regulatory compliance. Under those circumstances net income and the rate of growth of net income may be adversely affected. Additional issuances of equity securities could have a dilutive effect on existing shareholders. The Company cannot be certain that it will be able to acquire additional capital when it is required, or that the terms upon which it is available will not be disadvantageous to existing shareholders. The Company may not be able to successfully compete with others for business. The Company competes for loans and deposits with numerous regional and national banks, online divisions of out-of-market banks, and other community banking institutions, as well as other kinds of financial institutions and enterprises, such as securities firms, insurance companies, savings associations, credit unions, mortgage brokers, and private lenders. Many competitors have substantially greater resources than the Company, and operate under less stringent regulatory environments. The differences in resources and regulations may make it harder for the Company to compete profitably, reduce the rates that it can earn on loans and investments, increase the rates it must offer on deposits, and adversely affect the Company’s overall financial condition and earnings. Liquidity challenges may increase due to turmoil in the financial markets. The turmoil in the financial markets has resulted in sharp declines in real estate values and financial instruments. These declines have resulted in large losses at many financial institutions detrimentally affecting depositors’ confidence in all financial institutions. This lack of confidence has resulted in rapid withdrawals by depositors in several institutions causing the institutions to fail and/or require federal assistance. The Company positions itself in the marketplace as a business bank. It does not (and did not) originate or acquire home loans or securities dependent upon home loans for repayment. Nevertheless, the turmoil in the financial markets has caused many depositors to seek safety in government securities, resulting in liquidity challenges for all banks. Should turmoil in the markets continue, the Company may be forced to pay higher interest rates to obtain deposits to meet the needs of its depositors and borrowers, resulting in reduced net interest income. If conditions worsen significantly, it is possible that banks such as the Bank may be unable to meet the needs of their depositors and borrowers, which could, in the worst case, result in the Company being placed into receivership. 14 The current economic environment poses significant challenges for the Company and could adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. The Company is operating in a challenging and uncertain economic environment. Financial institutions continue to be affected by sharp declines in the real estate market and constrained financial markets. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. Continued declines in real estate values, home sales volumes, and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment could have an adverse effect on the Company’s borrowers or their customers, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects on the Company and others in the financial institutions industry. For example, further deterioration in local economic conditions in the Company’s market could drive losses beyond that which is provided for in its allowance for loan losses. The Company may also face the following risks in connection with these events: • Economic conditions that negatively affect housing prices and the job market have resulted, and may continue to result, in a deterioration in credit quality of the loan portfolios, and such deterioration in credit quality has had, and could continue to have, a negative impact on the Company’s business; • The methodologies the Company uses to establish our allowance for loan losses may no longer be reliable because they rely on complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation; • Continued turmoil in the market, and loss of confidence in the banking system, could require the Bank to pay higher interest rates to obtain deposits to meet the needs of its depositors and borrowers, resulting in reduced margin and net interest income. If conditions worsen significantly, it is possible that banks such as the Bank may be unable to meet the needs of their depositors and borrowers, which could, in the worst case, result in the Bank being placed into receivership; and • Compliance with increased regulation of the banking industry may increase our costs, limit our ability to pursue business opportunities, and divert management efforts. As these conditions or similar ones continue to exist or worsen, the Company could experience continuing or increased adverse effects on its financial condition. Higher deposit insurance premiums and assessments could adversely affect our financial condition. Deposit insurance premiums charged by the FDIC have increased substantially in 2009, and the Company expects to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums in the future. A large number of bank failures has significantly depleted the deposit insurance fund and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. The FDIC adopted a revised risk-based deposit insurance assessment schedule on February 27, 2009, which raised deposit insurance premiums. On May 22, 2009, the FDIC also implemented a five basis point special assessment of each insured depository institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009, but no more than 10 basis points times the institution’s assessment base for the second quarter of 2009, which was collected on September 30, 2009. Additional special assessments may be imposed by the FDIC in the future. The Company participates in the FDIC’s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, or TLG, for noninterest-bearing transaction deposit accounts. Banks that participate in the TLG’s noninterest-bearing transaction account guarantee will pay the FDIC an annual assessment of 10 basis points on the amounts in such accounts above the amounts covered by FDIC deposit insurance. To the extent that these TLG assessments are insufficient to cover any loss or expenses arising from the TLG program, the FDIC is authorized to impose an emergency special assessment on all FDIC-insured depository institutions. The FDIC has authority to impose charges for the TLG program upon depository institution holding companies, as well. The FDIC has extended the TLG to June 30, 2010, and increased the fee to banks that elect to participate in the extension to 15 to 25 basis points, depending on the institution’s risk category. The Bank will continue to participate in the TLG. These changes will cause the Company’s deposit insurance expense to increase. These actions could significantly increase its noninterest expense for the foreseeable future. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to reflect all or any portion of these premium costs in the rates it pays depositors. 15 There can be no assurance that recent legislation and regulatory actions taken by the federal government will help stabilize the financial system in the United States. Several pieces of federal legislation have been enacted, and the United States Department of the Treasury, the Federal Reserve, the FDIC, and other federal agencies have enacted numerous programs, policies and regulations to address the current liquidity and credit crises. These measures include the Emergency Economic Stimulus Act of 2008 (“EESA”), the American Reinvestment and Recovery Act of 2009 (“ARRA”), and the numerous programs, including the TARP Capital Purchase Program, in which the Company did not participate, and expanded deposit insurance coverage, enacted thereunder. In addition, the Secretary of the Treasury has proposed fundamental changes to the regulation of financial institutions, markets and products. The Company cannot predict the actual effects of EESA, ARRA, the proposed regulatory reform measures and various governmental, regulatory, monetary and fiscal initiatives which have been and may be enacted on the financial markets, on the Company and the Bank. The terms and costs of these activities, or the failure of these actions to help stabilize the financial markets, asset prices, market liquidity and a continuation or worsening of current financial market and economic conditions could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and the trading prices of its securities. The Company expects to face increased regulation of our industry, including as a result of EESA, the ARRA and related initiatives by the federal government. Compliance with such regulations may increase costs and limit the Company’s ability to pursue business opportunities. Trading in the common stock has been light. As a result, shareholders may not be able to quickly and easily sell their common stock. Although the Company’s common stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ Capital Market and a number of brokers offer to make a market in the common stock on a regular basis, trading volume to date has been limited. A more liquid market for the Company’s common stock may not develop (or if one develops, it may not be sustainable). As a result, shareholders may find it difficult to sell a significant number of shares at the prevailing market price. Directors and officers of CommerceFirst Bancorp own approximately 21% of the outstanding common stock. As a result of their combined ownership, they could make it more difficult to obtain approval for some matters submitted to shareholder vote, including acquisition of the Company. The results of the vote may be contrary to the desires or interests of the public shareholders. Directors and executive officers own approximately 21% of the outstanding shares of common stock, excluding shares which may be acquired upon the exercise of options. By voting against a proposal submitted to shareholders, the directors and officers, as a group, may be able to make approval more difficult for proposals requiring the vote of shareholders, such as some mergers, share exchanges, asset sales, and amendments to the Articles of Incorporation. Changes in interest rates and other factors beyond the Company’s control could have an adverse impact on its financial performance and results. The Company’s operating income and net income depend to a great extent on its net interest margin, i.e., the difference between the interest yields it receive on loans, securities and other interest bearing assets and the interest rates it pay on interest bearing deposits and other liabilities. Net interest margin is affected by changes in market interest rates, because different types of assets and liabilities may react differently, and at different times, to market interest rate changes. When interest bearing liabilities mature or reprice more quickly than interest earning assets in a period, an increase in market rates of interest could reduce net interest income. Similarly, when interest earning assets mature or reprice more quickly than interest bearing liabilities, falling interest rates could reduce net interest income These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including competition, general economic conditions and monetary and fiscal policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities, including the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. 16 The Company attempts to manage our risk from changes in market interest rates by adjusting the rates, maturity, re-pricing, and balances of the different types of interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities, but interest rate risk management techniques are not exact. As a result, a rapid increase or decrease in interest rates could have an adverse effect on the Company’s net interest margin and results of operations. The results of the interest rate sensitivity simulation model depend upon a number of assumptions which may not prove to be accurate. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to successfully manage our interest rate risk. Increases in market rates and adverse changes in the local residential real estate market, the general economy or consumer confidence would likely have a significant adverse impact on noninterest income, as a result of reduced demand for SBA guaranteed loans, the majority of which the Company sells. Changes in laws, if enacted, including those that would permit banks to pay interest on checking and demand deposit accounts established by businesses, could have a significant negative effect on net interest income, net income, net interest margin, return on assets and return on equity. Usually, more than 10% of the Company’s deposits were noninterest bearing demand deposits. The Federal Deposit Insurance Company (FDIC) has significantly increased the premium charged for deposit insurance for FDIC insured institutions including a special assessment charged as of June 30, 2009 and paid September 30, 2009. The FDIC is experiencing significant liquidity and capital issues at this time and has increased the insurance assessments. It is probably that the FDIC will continue looking to industry for additional funds in spite of having available funding through the U. S. Treasury. Substantial regulatory limitations on changes of control and anti-takeover provisions of Maryland law may make it more difficult for shareholders to receive a change in control premium. With certain limited exceptions, federal regulations prohibit a person or company or a group of persons deemed to be “acting in concert” from, directly or indirectly, acquiring more than 10% (5% if the acquiror is a bank holding company) of any class of the Company’s voting stock or obtaining the ability to control in any manner the election of a majority of its directors or otherwise direct the management or policies of the Company without prior notice or application to and the approval of the Federal Reserve. There are comparable prior approval requirements for changes in control under Maryland law. Also, Maryland corporate law contains several provisions that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of the Company without the approval of its Board of Directors, and may make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire a majority of its outstanding common stock. Government regulation will significantly affect the Company’s business, and may result in higher costs and lower shareholder returns. The banking industry is heavily regulated. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect the federal deposit insurance funds and depositors, not shareholders. The Company and Bank are regulated and supervised by the Maryland Department of Financial Regulation, the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC. The burden imposed by federal and state regulations puts banks at a competitive disadvantage compared to less regulated competitors such as finance companies, mortgage banking companies and leasing companies. Changes in the laws, regulations and regulatory practices affecting the banking industry may increase the costs of doing business or otherwise adversely affect the Company and create competitive advantages for others. Regulations affecting banks and financial services companies undergo continuous change, and the Company cannot predict the ultimate effect of these changes, which could have a material adverse effect on its profitability or financial condition. Federal economic and monetary policy may also affect the Company’s ability to attract deposits and other funding sources, make loans and investments, and achieve satisfactory interest spreads. 17 The loss of the services of any key employees could adversely affect investor returns. Our business is service oriented, and our success depends to a large extent upon the services of Richard J. Morgan, our President and its Market Leaders. The loss of the services of any of these officers could adversely affect the Company’s business ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 