Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks involved in Bancorp’s construction and commercial real estate loan portfolios are material. Bancorp’s commercial real estate loan portfolio constitutes a material portion of the Bank’s assets and generally has more risk than residential mortgage loans. Commercial real estate loans often involve larger loan balances concentrated with single borrowers or groups of related borrowers as compared to single-family residential loans. Because the repayment of commercial real estate loans depends on the successful management and operation of the borrower’s properties or related businesses, repayments of such loans can be affected by adverse conditions in the real estate market or local economy as have been experienced in Bancorp’s market area. The downturn in the real estate market within Bancorp’s market area has, and may continue to, adversely impact the value of properties securing these loans. Real estate lending in Bancorp’s core Fairfield County, Connecticut market involves risks related to a decline in value of commercial and residential real estate. The market value of real estate can fluctuate significantly in a relatively short period of time as a result of market conditions in the geographic area in which the real estate is located. A significant portion of Bancorp’s total loan portfolio is secured by real estate located in Fairfield County, Connecticut and New York City, Long Island and Westchester County, New York, areas historically of high affluence that have been materially impacted by the financial troubles experienced by large financial service companies on Wall Street and other companies in recent years. Credit markets have become tight and underwriting standards more stringent, and the inability of purchasers of real estate to obtain financing will continue to impact the real estate market. Therefore, these loans may be subject to changes in grade, classification, accrual status, foreclosure, or loss which could have an effect on the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses. Bancorp’s business is subject to various lending and other economic risks that could adversely impact Bancorp’s results of operations and financial condition. Changes in economic conditions, particularly a continued economic slowdown in Fairfield County, Connecticut and the New York metropolitan area, could hurt Bancorp’s financial performance. A further deterioration in economic conditions, in particular an economic slowdown within Fairfield County, Connecticut and/or the New York metropolitan area, could result in the following consequences, any of which may hurt the business of Bancorp materially: loan delinquencies may increase; problem assets and foreclosures may increase; demand for the Bank’s products and services may decline; and assets and collateral associated with the Bank’s loans, especially real estate, may decline in value, thereby reducing a customer’s borrowing power. During the years 2007 through 2009, the general economic conditions and specific business conditions in the United States including Fairfield County, Connecticut deteriorated resulting in increases in loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures and declines in the value and collateral associated with the Bank’s loans. During 2010 and 2011, the economic climate improved marginally resulting in decreases in the Bank’s non-performing assets. A prolonged period of economic recession or worsening of these adverse economic conditions may have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 13 Table of Contents Bancorp is Subject to a Formal Agreement with the OCC and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. The Bank is subject to a formal agreement with the OCC entered into in February 2009. The agreement provides for, among other things, the enhancement and implementation of certain programs to reduce the Bank’s credit risk, commercial real estate loan concentration and the level of criticized assets, along with the augmentation of a profit plan and three-year capital program. Additionally, the agreement provides for certain asset growth restrictions for a limited period of time. The Bank does not anticipate that these restrictions will impair its current business plan. However, failure to comply with the provisions of the agreement could result in more severe enforcement actions and further restrictions. In June 2010 the Company entered into a formal written agreement (the “Reserve Bank Agreement”) with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (the “Reserve Bank”). Under the terms of the Reserve Bank Agreement, the Board of Directors of the Company are required to take appropriate steps to fully utilize the Company’s financial and managerial resources to serve as a source of strength to the Bank including taking steps to insure that the Bank complies with the agreement with the OCC. The Reserve Bank Agreement requires the Company to submit, adopt and implement a capital plan that is acceptable to the Reserve Bank. The Company must also report to the Reserve Bank quarterly on the Company’s progress in complying with the Reserve Bank Agreement. The Agreement further provides for certain restrictions on the payment or receipt of dividends, distributions of interest or principal on subordinate debentures or trust preferred securities and the Company’s ability to incur debt or to purchase or redeem its stock without the prior written approval of the Reserve Bank. The Company has taken or put into process many of the steps required by the Reserve Bank Agreement, and does not anticipate that the restrictions included within the Reserve Bank Agreement will impair its current business plan. Bancorp’s allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. Like all financial institutions, the Bank maintains an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance. The allowance for loan losses is based on an evaluation of the risks associated with the Bank’s loans receivable as well as the Bank’s prior loss experience. Deterioration in general economic conditions and unforeseen risks affecting customers will have an adverse effect on borrowers’ capacity to repay timely their obligations before risk grades could reflect those changing conditions. The previous adverse changes in economic and market conditions in the Bank’s market areas increase the risk that the allowance will become inadequate if borrowers continue to experience economic and other conditions adverse to their incomes and businesses. Maintaining the adequacy of the Bank’s allowance for loan losses may require that the Bank make significant and unanticipated increases in the provision for loan losses, which would materially affect the results of operations and capital adequacy. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond the Bank’s control and these losses may exceed current estimates. The current economic environment is uncertain and may result in additional risk of loan losses. 14 Table of Contents Federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review the Bank’s loans and assess the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses. The regulatory agencies may require us to change classifications or grades on loans, increase the allowance for loan losses with additional provisions for loan losses and to recognize further loan charge-offs based upon their judgments, which may differ from ours. Any increase in the allowance for loan losses required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition. During 2009, the Bank significantly increased its allowance for loan losses based on management’s evaluation of the current economic crisis and its impact on the real estate market in the Bank’s market area. During 2010, the Bank’s allowance for loan losses remained comparatively constant based on management’s current assessment. During 2011, the Bank significantly reduced the amount of non-performing loans with the bulk sale of non-performing assets. While management believes that the allowance for loan losses is currently adequate to cover inherent losses, further loan deterioration could occur and therefore management cannot assure shareholders that there will not be a need to increase the allowance for loan losses or that the regulators will not require management to increase this allowance. Either of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect Bancorp’s earnings and profitability. Bancorp is subject to certain risks with respect to liquidity. “Liquidity” refers to our ability to generate sufficient cash flows to support our operations and to fulfill our obligations, including commitments to originate loans, to repay our wholesale borrowings and other liabilities, and to satisfy the withdrawal of deposits by our customers. Our primary sources of liquidity are the deposits we acquire organically through our branch network, borrowed funds, primarily in the form of wholesale borrowings; the cash flows generated through the repayment of loans and securities; and the cash flows from the sale of loans and securities. In addition, and depending on current market conditions, we may have the ability to access the capital markets from time to time. Deposit flows, calls of investment securities and wholesale borrowings, and prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities are strongly influenced by such external factors as the direction of interest rates, whether actual or perceived; local and national economic conditions; and competition for deposits and loans in the markets we serve. Furthermore, changes to the underwriting guidelines for wholesale borrowings or lending policies may limit or restrict our ability to borrow, and could therefore have a significant adverse impact on our liquidity. A decline in available funding could adversely impact our ability to originate loans, invest in securities, and meet our expenses, or to fulfill such obligations as repaying our borrowings or meeting deposit withdrawal demands. 15 Table of Contents Bancorp’s business is subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively affect Bancorp’s financial performance. Bancorp is unable to predict fluctuations of market interest rates, which are affected by many factors including: inflation, recession, a rise in unemployment, a tightening money supply, domestic and international disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. Changes in the interest rate environment may reduce Bancorp’s profits. Bancorp realizes income from the differential or “spread” between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. Net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and repricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. In addition, an increase in the general level of interest rates may adversely affect the ability of some borrowers to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations. Like most financial institutions, Bancorp is affected by changes in interest rates, which are currently at record low levels, and by other economic factors beyond Bancorp’s control. Although Bancorp has implemented strategies which are designed to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on operations, these strategies may not always be successful. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect Bancorp’s net interest spread, asset quality, levels of prepayments and cash flow as well as the market value of its securities portfolio and overall profitability. Mortgage brokerage activity is also affected by interest rate fluctuations. Generally, increases in interest rates often lead to decreases in home refinancing activity, thus reducing the number of mortgage loans that Bancorp originates. Bancorp’s investment portfolio includes securities which are sensitive to interest rates and variations in interest rates may adversely impact Bancorp’s profitability. Bancorp’s security portfolio is classified as available-for-sale, and is comprised primarily of debt and mortgage-backed securities, which are insured or guaranteed by U.S. government agencies, and corporate bonds. These securities are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations. Unrealized gains or losses in the available-for-sale portfolio for securities are reported as a separate component of shareholders’ equity. As a result, future interest rate fluctuations may impact shareholders’ equity, causing material fluctuations from quarter to quarter. The inability to hold its securities until maturity, or until payments are received on mortgage-backed securities, or until market conditions are favorable for a sale, could adversely affect Bancorp’s earnings and profitability. Bancorp is dependent on its management team and the loss of its senior executive officers or other key employees could impair its relationship with its customers and adversely affect its business and financial results. Bancorp’s success is dependent upon the continued services and skills of its management team. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of these key personnel, without experienced and suitable replacements could have an adverse impact on Bancorp’s business because of their skills, knowledge of Bancorp’s market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. 16 Table of Contents Bancorp’s success also depends, in part, on its continued ability to attract and retain experienced commercial lenders and residential mortgage originators, as well as other management personnel. The loss of the services of several of such key personnel could adversely affect Bancorp’s growth and prospects to the extent it is unable to quickly replace such personnel. Competition for commercial lenders and residential mortgage originators is strong within the commercial banking and mortgage banking industries, and Bancorp may not be successful in retaining or attracting personnel. A breach of information security could negatively affect Bancorp’s earnings. Bancorp increasingly depends upon data processing, communications and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks, and over the internet to conduct its business. Bancorp cannot be certain that all of its systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack, despite safeguards it has instituted. In addition, Bancorp relies on the services of a variety of vendors to meet its data processing and communication needs. If information security is breached, information can be lost or misappropriated; this could result in financial loss or costs to Bancorp or damages to others. These costs or losses could materially exceed the amount of insurance coverage, if any, which would have an adverse effect on Bancorp’s results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the Bank’s reputation could be harmed, which also could materially adversely affect Bancorp’s financial condition and results of operation. We are subject to environmental liability risk associated with our lending activities. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on, and take title to, properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. In addition, we own and operate certain properties that may be subject to similar environmental liability risks. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. Although we have policies and procedures requiring the performance of an environmental site assessment before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these assessments may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business may be adversely impacted by acts of war or terrorism. Acts of war or terrorism could have a significant adverse impact on our ability to conduct our business. Such events could affect the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, could impair the value of the collateral securing our loans, and could cause significant property damage, thus increasing our expenses and/or reducing our revenues. In addition, such events could affect the ability of our depositors to maintain their deposits with the Bank. Although we have established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents We rely on the dividends we receive from our subsidiary. Bancorp is a separate and distinct legal entity from the Bank, and all of the revenues Bancorp receives consist of dividends from the Bank. These dividends are the primary funding source for the interest and principal payments on our debt. Various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that a bank may pay to its parent company. In addition, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon the liquidation or reorganization of a subsidiary may be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. If the Bank is unable to pay dividends to Bancorp, we may not be able to pay our obligations. The inability to receive dividends from the Bank could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, our financial condition, and our results of operations, as well as our ability to maintain or increase the current level of cash dividends paid to our shareholders. Beginning in the second quarter of 2009, the Company began deferring interest payments on the subordinated debentures as permitted under the terms of the debentures. The deferral in the fourth quarter of 2011 represented the eleventh consecutive quarter of deferral. The Company continues to accrue and charge interest to operations. The Company may only defer the payment of interest for 20 consecutive quarters, until March 2014, and all accrued interest must be paid prior to or at completion of the deferral period. The price of our common stock may fluctuate. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to changes in sentiment in the market regarding our operations or business prospects. Among other factors, these risks may be affected by: • operating results that vary from the expectations of our management or of securities analysts and investors; • developments in our business or in the financial services sector generally; • regulatory or legislative changes affecting our industry generally or our business and operations; • operating and securities price performance of companies that investors consider to be comparable to us; • changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts or rating agencies; • announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions, dispositions, financings, and other material events by us or our competitors; and • changes or volatility in global financial markets and economies, general market conditions, interest or foreign exchange rates, stock, commodity, credit, or asset valuations. 18 Table of Contents Furthermore, given recent and ongoing market and economic conditions, the market price of our common stock may be subject to further significant market fluctuations. The effects of the recession that began in the second half of 2007 has continued to have an adverse impact on real estate values; in addition, foreclosure filings are increasing and unemployment remains atypically high. These factors have negatively affected the credit performance of mortgage and other loans, and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. The resulting economic pressure on property owners and other borrowers, and the lack of confidence in the financial markets in general, has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our business and results of operations. In addition, stock markets around the world have experienced significant price and trading volume volatility, with shares of financial services firms being adversely impacted, in particular. While the U.S. and other governments continue to take action to restore confidence in the financial markets and to promote job creation and economic growth, continued or further market and economic turmoil could occur in the near or long term, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, and volatility in the price and trading volume of our common stock. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected Bancorp’s industry. Bancorp is exposed to downturns in the U.S. economy, and particularly the local markets in which it operates in Connecticut and New York. Declines in the housing market with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage and construction loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored enterprises as well as major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including other financial institutions. This market turmoil and the tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and generally widespread reductions in business activity. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has adversely affected Bancorp’s business, financial condition and results of operations. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and other financial institutions. In particular: • Economic conditions may continue to affect market confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies, which could affect our charge-offs and provision for loan losses. • The ability to assess the creditworthiness of the Bank’s customers or to estimate the values of collateral for loans may be impaired if the models and approaches we use become less predictive of future behaviors, valuations, assumptions or estimates due to the unpredictable economic climate. • Increasing consolidation of financial services companies as a result of current market conditions could have unexpected adverse effects upon our ability to compete effectively. 19 Table of Contents We may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums, special assessments, or taxes that could adversely affect our earnings. Market developments have significantly impacted the insurance fund of the FDIC. As a result, we may be required to pay higher premiums or additional special assessments or taxes that could adversely affect our earnings. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional banks or financial institution failures, we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than are currently assessed. These increases and any future increases or required prepayments in FDIC insurance premiums or taxes may materially adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to risks associated with taxation. The amount of income taxes we are required to pay on our earnings is based on federal and state legislation and regulations. We provide for current and deferred taxes in our financial statements, based on our results of operations, business activity, legal structure, interpretation of tax statutes, assessment of risk of adjustment upon audit, and application of financial accounting standards. We may take tax return filing positions for which the final determination of tax is uncertain. Our net income and earnings per share may be reduced if a federal, state, or local authority assesses additional taxes that have not been provided for in our consolidated financial statements. There can be no assurance that we will achieve our anticipated effective tax rate either due to a change to tax law, a change in regulatory or judicial guidance, or an audit assessment which denies previously recognized tax benefits. Risks associated with changes in technology. Financial products and services have become increasingly technology-driven. Our ability to meet the needs of our customers competitively, and in a cost-efficient manner, is dependent on our ability to keep pace with technological advances and to invest in new technology as it becomes available. Many of our competitors have greater resources to invest in technology than we do and may be better equipped to market new technology-driven products and services. The ability to keep pace with technological change is important, and the failure to do so on our part could have a material adverse impact on our business and therefore on our financial condition and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents Strong competition within Bancorp’s market area may limit the growth and profitability of the Company. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. The Fairfield County, Connecticut and the New York City metropolitan areas have a high concentration of financial institutions including large money center and regional banks, community banks and credit unions. Some of Bancorp’s competitors offer products and services that the Bank currently does not offer, such as private banking and trust services. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than Bancorp and may offer certain services that Bancorp does not or cannot provide. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in the Bank earning less on its loans and paying more for deposits, which reduces net interest income. Bancorp expects competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes. Bancorp’s profitability depends upon its continued ability to successfully compete in its market area. Government regulation may have an adverse effect on Bancorp’s profitability and growth. Bancorp is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency as the Bank’s chartering authority, by the FDIC, as insurer of its deposits, and by the Federal Reserve Board as regulator of Bancorp. Changes in state and federal banking laws and regulations or in federal monetary policies could adversely affect the Bank’s ability to maintain profitability and continue to grow and, in light of recent economic conditions, such changes are expected but cannot be predicted. For example, new legislation or regulation could limit the manner in which Bancorp may conduct its business, including the Bank’s ability to obtain financing, attract deposits, make loans and achieve satisfactory interest spreads. One proposal that was passed implemented a new federal agency devoted to the rights of consumers that would regulate banks on a parallel track with banking regulatory authorities. The laws, regulations, interpretations and enforcement policies that apply to Bancorp have been subject to significant, and sometimes retroactively applied, changes in recent years, and are likely to change significantly in the future. Legislation proposing significant structural reforms to the financial services industry considered in the U.S. Congress has, among other things, created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which gives broad authority to regulate financial service providers and financial products. In addition, the Federal Reserve Bank has passed guidance on incentive compensation at the banking organizations it regulates and the United States Department of the Treasury and the federal banking regulators have issued statements calling for higher capital and liquidity requirements for banking organizations. Complying with any new legislative or regulatory requirements, and any programs established there under by federal and state governments to address the current economic crisis, could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and our ability to fill positions with the most qualified candidates available. 21 Table of Contents Changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure. Laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, SEC regulations and NASDAQ rules, have added to the responsibilities that companies, such as Bancorp, have. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could make compliance more difficult and result in higher costs. Bancorp is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, Bancorp’s efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Bancorp’s reputation may be harmed if it does not continue to comply with these laws, regulations and standards. The earnings of financial institutions are significantly affected by general business and economic conditions. As a financial institution, Bancorp’s operations and profitability are impacted by general business and economic conditions in the United States and abroad. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, money supply, political issues, legislative and regulatory changes and the strength of the U.S. economy and the local economies in which we operate, all of which are beyond Bancorp’s control. In recent years, the banking world has experienced unprecedented upheaval, including the failure of some of the leading financial institutions in the world. Further deterioration in economic conditions could result in an increase in loan delinquencies and non-performing assets, decreases in loan collateral values and a decrease in demand for the Bank’s products and services, among other things, any of which could have a material adverse impact on Bancorp’s results of operations and financial condition and for which Bancorp cannot currently predict or implement plans to combat. 22 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 