Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following information in addition to other information in this report before you decide to purchase our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently deem to be material and that we believe are specific to our company and our industry. In addition to these risks, our business may be subject to risks currently unknown to us. If any of these or other risks actually occur, our business may be adversely affected, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment in Websense. Our future success depends on our ability to sell new, renewal and upgraded subscriptions to Websense Enterprise and the related add-on products. All of our revenue comes from new and renewal subscriptions to Websense Enterprise and its related add-on products, and we expect this trend to continue for the foreseeable future. If Websense Enterprise or the add-on products fail to meet the needs of our existing and target customers, or if they do not compare favorably in price and performance to competing products, our operating results and our business will be significantly impaired. If we cannot sufficiently increase our customer base with the addition of new customers, we will not be able to grow our business to meet expectations. Subscriptions for Websense Enterprise typically have durations of 12, 24 or 36 months. Our customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions upon expiration. In order to maintain our revenue we must be successful in selling renewal subscriptions and in selling further subscriptions to existing customers in order to add additional seats or product offerings within their respective organizations. This may require increasingly costly sales efforts targeting senior management and other management personnel associated with our customers’ internet and security infrastructure. We may not be able to maintain or continue to generate increasing revenue from existing customers. Failure of our add-on products, particularly our security products, to achieve more widespread market acceptance will seriously harm our business. Our future financial performance depends on our ability to diversify our offerings by successfully developing, introducing and gaining customer acceptance of our new products and services, particularly our security offerings. We currently have two platforms for our core software, Websense Enterprise and Websense Enterprise—Corporate Edition. We also sell a number of add-on products such as our three Premium Groups (Security, Productivity and Bandwidth), Remote Filtering, Client Policy Manager, Real-Time Security Updates, Bandwidth Optimizer and Instant Messaging Attachment Manager. In addition, we have developed security services that we include within our Websense Web Security Suites, such as ThreatWatcher, BrandWatcher and SiteWatcher. We may not be successful in achieving market acceptance of these or any new products that we develop or of enhanced versions of Websense Enterprise. Moreover, our recent increased emphasis on the development, marketing and sale of our security offerings could distract us from sales of our core Websense Enterprise offering, negatively impacting our overall sales. Any failure or delay in diversifying our existing offerings, or diversification at the detriment to our core Websense Enterprise offering, could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face increasing competition, which places pressure on our pricing and which could prevent us from increasing revenue or maintaining profitability. In addition, as we increase our emphasis on our security-oriented products, we face competition from better-established security companies that have significantly greater resources. The market for our products is intensely competitive and is likely to become even more so in the future, within both the employee internet management, or EIM, market as well as the web security market. Our current principal EIM competitors frequently offer their products at a significantly lower price than our products, which has resulted in pricing pressures on sales of our product and potentially could result in the commoditization of EIM products. We also face current and potential competition from vendors of 18 internet servers, operating systems and networking hardware, many of which now, or may in the future, develop and/or bundle EIM or other competitive products with their products. If we are unable to maintain the current pricing on sales of our products or increase our pricing in the future, our profitability could be negatively impacted. Even if our products provide greater functionality and are more effective than certain other competitive products, potential customers might accept this limited functionality in lieu of purchasing our products. In addition, our own indirect sales channels may decide to develop or sell competing products instead of our products. Pricing pressures and increased competition generally could result in reduced sales, reduced margins or the failure of our products to achieve or maintain more widespread market acceptance, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our current principal competitors include: · companies offering web filtering products, such as SurfControl, Secure Computing, Computer Associates, Microsoft, St. Bernard Software and Trend Micro; · companies integrating web filtering into specialized security appliances, such as 8e6 Technologies, Blue Coat Systems, Cisco Systems, McAfee and SonicWALL; · companies offering web security solutions, such as McAfee, Microsoft, Symantec and Trend Micro; and · companies offering desktop security solutions such as Check Point Software, Cisco Systems, McAfee, Microsoft and Symantec. As we develop and market our products with an increasing security-oriented emphasis, we also face increasing competition from security solutions providers. Many of our competitors within the web security market, such as Symantec Corporation, McAfee, Inc., Trend Micro, Cisco Systems and Microsoft Corporation enjoy substantial competitive advantages, including: · greater name recognition and larger marketing budgets and resources; · established marketing relationships and access to larger customer bases; and · substantially greater financial, technical and other resources. As a result, we may be unable to gain sufficient traction as a provider of web security solutions, and our competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards or customer requirements. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase the functionality of their products to address customer needs. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. For all of the foregoing reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully against our current and future competitors. The market for our products continues to emerge, and if we are not successful in promoting awareness of the need for our products and of our Websense brand, our growth may be limited. Based on our experience with potential customers, we believe that many corporations do not recognize or acknowledge the existence or scope of problems caused by misuse or abuse of the internet or of network computers. In addition, there may be a time-limited opportunity to achieve and maintain a significant share of the market for web security solutions due in part to the emerging nature of these markets and the substantial resources available to our existing and potential competitors. If employers do not recognize or acknowledge the problems associated with unrestricted employee access to the Internet, the gaps in their traditional security infrastructures and the ability of Websense security products to provide an additional layer of protection, then the market for our products may develop more slowly than we expect, which could adversely affect our operating results. Developing and maintaining awareness of 19 our Websense brand is critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our existing and future products. Furthermore, we believe that the importance of brand recognition will increase as competition in our market develops. Successful promotion of our Websense brand will depend largely on the effectiveness of our marketing efforts and on our ability to develop reliable and useful products at competitive prices. If we fail to successfully promote our Websense brand, or if our expenses to promote and maintain our Websense brand are greater than anticipated, our results of operations and financial condition could suffer. Because we recognize revenue from subscriptions for our products ratably over the term of the subscription, downturns in sales may not be immediately reflected in our revenue. We expect that nearly all of our revenue for the foreseeable future will come from subscriptions to Websense Enterprise and our add-on products. Upon execution of a subscription agreement, we invoice our customers for the full term of the subscription agreement. We then recognize revenue from customers monthly over the terms of their subscription agreements, which typically have durations of 12, 24 or 36 months. As a result, a majority of the revenue we report in each quarter is deferred revenue from subscription agreements entered into and paid for during previous quarters. Because of this financial model, the revenue we report in any quarter or series of quarters may mask significant downturns in sales and the market acceptance of our products. Sales to customers outside the United States have accounted for a significant portion of our revenue, and we expect this trend to continue, which exposes us to risks inherent in international sales. We market and sell our products outside the United States through value-added resellers, distributors and other resellers. International sales represented approximately 33% of our total revenue in 2005 and approximately 32% in 2004, and international sales increased 37% in absolute dollars in 2005 compared with 2004. As a key component of our business strategy, we intend to expand our international sales, but success cannot be assured. In addition to the risks associated with our domestic sales, our international sales are subject to the following risks: · dependence on foreign distributors and their sales channels; · localization of our products and our ability to properly categorize and filter websites containing foreign languages; · laws and business practices favoring local competitors; · compliance with multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations, including tax laws and regulations; · foreign currency fluctuations; · longer accounts receivable payment cycles and other collection difficulties; and · regional economic and political conditions. Such factors could have a material adverse effect on our future international sales. Any reduction in international sales, or our failure to further develop our international distribution channels, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our international revenue is currently primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. As a result, fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies may make our products more expensive for international customers, which could harm our business. In 2005, we began billing certain international customers in Euros. In 2006, we anticipate billing certain international customers in other foreign currencies. This may increase our risks associated with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates since we cannot be assured of receiving the same U.S. dollar equivalent as when we bill exclusively in 20 U.S. dollars. We engage in currency hedging activities with the intent of limiting the risk of exchange rate fluctuation. Our hedging activities also involve inherent risks that could result in an unforeseen loss. If we fail to properly forecast rate fluctuations these activities could have a negative impact. We may not be able to develop acceptable new products or enhancements to our existing products at a rate required by our rapidly changing market. Our future success depends on our ability to develop new products or enhancements to our existing products that keep pace with rapid technological developments and that address the changing needs of our customers. Although our products are designed to operate with a variety of network hardware and software platforms, we will need to continuously modify and enhance our products to keep pace with changes in internet-related hardware, software, communication, browser and database technologies. We may not be successful in either developing such products or introducing them to the market in a timely fashion. In addition, uncertainties about the timing and nature of new network platforms or technologies, or modifications to existing platforms or technology could increase our research and development expenses. The failure of our products to operate effectively with the existing and future network platforms and technologies will limit or reduce the market for our products, result in customer dissatisfaction and seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we acquire any companies or technologies in the future, they could prove difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and adversely affect our operating results. We may acquire or make investments in complementary companies, services and technologies in the future. We have not made any acquisitions or investments to date, and therefore our ability as an organization to make acquisitions or investments is unproven. Although we review the records of companies or businesses we are interested in acquiring, even an in-depth review may not reveal existing or potential problems or permit us to become familiar enough with a business to assess fully its capabilities and deficiencies. Acquisitions and investments involve numerous risks, including: · difficulties in integrating operations, technologies, services and personnel; · diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; · risk of entering new markets; · potential loss of key employees; · assumption of liabilities of the acquired company, including debt and litigation; and · inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition or investment costs. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities, our existing stockholders may be diluted which could affect the market price of our stock. As a result, if we fail to properly evaluate and execute acquisitions or investments, our business and prospects may be seriously harmed. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly, and these fluctuations may cause our stock price to fall. Our quarterly operating results have varied significantly in the past, and will likely vary in the future primarily as the result of fluctuations in our billings, revenues, operating expenses and tax provisions. Although a significant portion of our revenue in any quarter comes from previously deferred revenue, a meaningful portion of our revenue in any quarter depends on subscriptions to our products that are sold in that quarter. The risk of quarterly fluctuations is increased by the fact that a significant portion of our quarterly sales have historically been generated during the last month of each fiscal quarter, with many of 21 the largest enterprise customers purchasing subscriptions to our products nearer to the end of the last month of each quarter. Due to the unpredictability of these end-of-period buying patterns, forecasts may not be achieved. We expect that our operating expenses will increase substantially in the future as we expand our selling and marketing activities, increase our research and development efforts and hire additional personnel. In addition, our operating expenses historically have fluctuated, and may continue to fluctuate in the future, as the result of the factors described below and elsewhere in this quarterly report: · timing of marketing expenses for activities such as trade shows and advertising campaigns; · quarterly variations in general and administrative expenses, such as recruiting expenses and professional services fees; · increased research and development costs prior to new or enhanced product launches; and · timing of expenses associated with commissions paid on sales of subscriptions to our products. Consequently, our results of operations may not meet the expectations of current or potential investors. If this occurs, the price of our common stock may decline. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. The market price of our common stock has been and likely will continue to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors that are beyond our control, including: · announcements of technological innovations or new products or services by our competitors; · demand for our products, including fluctuations in subscription renewals; · changes in the pricing policies of our competitors; and · changes in government regulations. In addition, the market price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to: · announcements of technological innovations or new products or services by us; · changes in our pricing policies; and · quarterly variations in our revenues and operating expenses. Further, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market price of the stock of many internet-related companies, and that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. A number of publicly traded internet-related companies have current market prices below their initial public offering prices. Market fluctuations such as these may seriously harm the market price of our common stock. In the past, securities class action suits have been filed following periods of market volatility in the price of a company’s securities. If such an action were instituted, we would incur substantial costs and a diversion of management attention and resources, which would seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We must develop and expand our indirect sales channels to increase revenue and improve our operating results. We depend on our indirect sales channels, including value-added resellers, distributors, and providers of managed internet services, to offer our products to a larger customer base than can be reached through a direct sales effort. We need to expand our existing indirect sales channel relationships and enter into new 22 indirect sales channel relationships to increase our current and future market share and revenue. We may be unable to maintain and expand our existing relationships or enter into new relationships on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to maintain and expand our existing relationships or enter into new relationships, we would lose customer introductions and co-marketing benefits and our operating results could suffer. Our ability to meaningfully increase the amount of our products sold through our sales channels also depends on our ability to adequately and efficiently support these channel partners with, among other things, appropriate financial incentives to encourage pre-sales investment and sales tools, such as sales training, technical training and product collateral needed to support their customers and prospects. Any failure to properly and efficiently support our sales channels will result in lost sales opportunities. Our reliance on indirect sales channels could result in reduced revenue growth because we have little control over our value-added resellers, distributors and original equipment manufacturers. We anticipate that sales from our various indirect sales channels, including value-added resellers, distributors, providers of managed internet services and others, will continue to account for a significant majority of our total revenue in future periods. None of these parties is obligated to continue selling our products or to make any purchases from us. Our ability to generate increased revenue depends upon the ability and willingness of our indirect sales channels to market and sell our products. If they are unsuccessful in their efforts or are unwilling or unable to market and sell our new product offerings such as our security-oriented offerings, our operating results will suffer. We cannot control the level of effort these parties expend or the extent to which any of them will be successful in marketing and selling our products. Some of our indirect sales channels also market and sell products that compete with our products or may decide to do so in the future. We may not be able to prevent these parties from devoting greater resources to support our competitors’ products and/or eliminating their efforts to sell our products. Any failure to protect our proprietary technology or establish our Websense brand would negatively impact our business. Intellectual property is critical to our success, and we rely upon trademark, copyright and trade secret laws in the United States and other jurisdictions as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology and our Websense brand. We rely on trade secrets to protect technology where we believe patent protection is not appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. While we require employees, collaborators and consultants to enter into confidentiality agreements, we cannot assure that these agreements will not be breached or that we will have adequate remedies for any breach. We may not be able to adequately protect our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure or the lawful development by others of such information. We have registered our Websense and Websense Enterprise trademarks in several countries and have registrations for the Websense trademark pending in several other countries. Effective trademark protection may not be available in every country where our products are available. Furthermore, any of our trademarks may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation. We currently have only three issued patents in the United States and one corresponding issued patent internationally, and we may be unable to obtain further patent protection in the future. We have several pending patent applications in the United States and in other countries. We cannot ensure that: · we were the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications; · we were the first to file patent applications for these inventions; · others will not independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; 23 · any of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents; · any patents issued to us will provide us with any competitive advantages or will not be challenged by third parties; · we will develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; or · the patents of others will not have a negative effect on our ability to do business. Furthermore, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain. Effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available to us in every country in which our products are available. The laws of some foreign countries may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as United States laws, and mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights may be inadequate. As a result our means of protecting our proprietary technology and brands may not be adequate. Furthermore, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property, including the misappropriation or misuse of the content of our proprietary databases of universal resource locators (URLs) and software applications. Any such infringement or misappropriation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be sued by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights. The software and internet industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, trademarks and copyrights and by frequent litigation based on allegations of patent infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. As we expand our product offerings in the security area where larger companies with large patent portfolios compete, the possibility of an intellectual property claim against us grows. We may also incur more expense in our product development efforts if we need to license patents or design around patents to avoid infringement claims. Our technologies and products may not be able to withstand any third-party claims or rights against their use. Any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming and expensive to litigate or settle, and could divert management attention from executing our business plan. Our database categories and our process for classifying URLs and software applications within those categories are subjective, and we may not be able to categorize URLs and software applications in accordance with our customers’ expectations. We may not succeed in accurately categorizing internet and application content to meet our customers’ expectations. We rely upon a combination of automated filtering technology and human review to categorize URLs and software applications in our proprietary databases. Our customers may not agree with our determinations that particular URLs and software applications should be included or not included in specific categories of our databases. In addition, it is possible that our filtering processes may place objectionable or security risk material in categories that are generally unrestricted by our users’ internet and computer access policies, which could result in such material not being blocked from the network. Any miscategorization could result in customer dissatisfaction and harm our reputation. Any failure to effectively categorize and filter URLs and software applications according to our customers’ expectations will impair the growth of our business and our efforts to increase brand acceptance. Our databases may fail to keep pace with the rapid growth and technological change of the Internet. The success of our products depend on the breadth and accuracy of our databases. Although our databases currently catalog more than 15 million URLs and over 1.4 million software applications and executable files, they contain only a portion of such material that exists. In addition, the total number of URLs and software applications is growing rapidly, and we expect this rapid growth rate to continue in the future. In particular, URLs and software applications that pose security risks tend to develop and evolve at a much faster rate than other content that we identify and categorize. Accordingly, we must identify and 24 categorize content for our security risk categories at an extremely rapid rate with our Real Time Security Updates. Our databases and database technologies may not be able to keep pace with the growth in the number of URLs and software applications, especially the growing amount of content utilizing foreign languages and the increasing sophistication of malicious code and the delivery mechanisms associated with spyware, phishing and other hazards associated with the Internet. Further, the ongoing evolution of the Internet and computing environments will require us to continually improve the functionality, features and reliability of our databases. Because our products primarily manage access to URLs and software applications included in our databases, if our databases do not contain a meaningful portion of relevant content, the effectiveness of Websense Enterprise will be significantly diminished. Any failure of our databases to keep pace with the rapid growth and technological change of the Internet will impair the market acceptance of our products, which in turn will harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Failure of our products to work properly or misuse of our products could impact sales, increase costs, and create risks of potential negative publicity and legal liability. Our products are complex and are deployed in a wide variety of complex network environments. Our products may have errors or defects that users identify after deployment, which could harm our reputation and our business. In addition, products as complex as ours frequently contain undetected errors when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. We have from time to time found errors in versions of our products, and we may find such errors in the future. Because customers rely on our products to manage employee behavior and to protect against security risks, any significant defects or errors in our products may result in negative publicity or legal claims. For example, an actual or perceived breach of network or computer security at one of our customers, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products, could adversely affect the market’s perception of our security products. Moreover, parties whose websites or software applications are placed in security-risk categories or other categories with negative connotations may seek redress against us for falsely labeling them or for interfering with their business. The occurrence of errors could adversely affect sales of our products, divert the attention of engineering personnel from our product development efforts and cause significant customer relations or legal problems. Our products may also be misused or abused by customers or non-customer third parties who obtain access and use of our products. These situations may arise where an organization uses our products in a manner that impacts their end users’ or employees’ privacy or where our products are misappropriated to censor private access to the internet. Any of these situations could result in negative press coverage and negatively affect our reputation. Our worldwide income tax provisions and other tax accruals may be insufficient if any taxing authorities assume taxing positions that are contrary to our positions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and for our accruals for other state, federal and international taxes such as sales and VAT taxes. In the ordinary course of a global business, there are many transactions for which the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Some of these uncertainties arise as a consequence of intercompany arrangements to share revenue and costs. In such arrangements there are uncertainties about the amount and manner of such sharing, which could ultimately result in changes once the arrangements are reviewed by taxing authorities. Although we believe that our approach to determining the amount of such arrangements is reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final tax authority review of these matters will not be materially different than that which is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and other tax accruals. Such differences could have a material effect on our income tax provisions or benefits, or other tax accruals, in the period in which such determination is made, and consequently, on our net income for such period. 25 From time to time, we are also audited by various state, federal and international authorities relating to tax matters. We fully cooperate with all audits. Our audits are in various stages of completion; however, no outcome for a particular audit can be determined with certainty prior to the conclusion of the audit and appeals process. As each audit is concluded, adjustments, if any, are appropriately recorded in our financial statements in the period determined. To provide for potential tax exposures, we maintain allowances for tax contingencies based on reasonable estimates of our potential exposure with respect to the tax liabilities that may result from such audits. However, if the reserves are insufficient upon completion of any audits, there could be an adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. We are subject to changes in financial accounting standards, which may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct business. Accounting policies affecting software revenue recognition have been the subject of frequent interpretations, significantly affecting the way we sell our products. Future changes in financial accounting standards, including pronouncements relating to revenue recognition, may have a significant effect on our reported results, including reporting of transactions completed before the effective date of the changes. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment (SFAS No. 123R), which will be effective in our first quarter of fiscal 2006. As permitted by SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation (SFAS No. 123), we currently account for share-based payments to employees using the intrinsic value method in accordance with Accounting Principles Board (APB) No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees (APB No. 25), and, as such, generally recognize no compensation cost for employee stock option grants or the discounts that we provide under our employee stock purchase plans. Under the new rules, commencing with our first quarter of fiscal 2006, we are required to adopt a fair value-based method for measuring the compensation expense related to employee stock awards; we anticipate that this will lead to an additional compensation expense of approximately $5.0 million in the first quarter of 2006, thereby reducing net income and earnings per share. Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in this report provides our pro forma net income and earnings per share as if we had used a fair value-based method similar to the methods required under SFAS 123R to measure the compensation expense for employee stock awards during fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003. In addition, the adoption of this standard could limit our ability to continue to use stock options as an incentive and retention tool, which could, in turn, hurt our ability to recruit employees and retain existing employees. However, overall, our cash flows will be unaffected. We are dependent on our management team, and the loss of any key member of this team may prevent us from implementing our business plan in a timely manner. Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key management personnel. We are also substantially dependent on the continued service of our existing engineering personnel because of the complexity of our products and technologies. We do not have employment agreements with a majority of our executive officers, key management or development personnel and, therefore, they could terminate their employment with us at any time without penalty. We do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our employees. The loss of one or more of our key employees could seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. In such an event we may be unable to recruit personnel to replace these individuals in a timely manner, or at all, on acceptable terms. In January 2006, we hired a new CEO, Gene Hodges, to succeed John Carrington who had served as our CEO since 1999. We cannot provide any assurance that our new CEO will lead the company’s strategic direction or anticipate market changes and requirements in the same manner or with the same results as our former CEO. 26 Our growth could strain our personnel and infrastructure resources, and if we are unable to implement appropriate controls and procedures to manage our growth, we may not be able to successfully implement our business plan. We continue to experience rapid growth in our operations, which has placed, and will continue to place, a significant strain on our management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. Our future success will depend in part upon the ability of our senior management to manage growth effectively. This will require us to hire and train additional personnel to manage our expanding operations. In addition, we will be required to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. If we fail to successfully manage our growth, we will be unable to execute our business plan. Because competition for our target employees is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled employees we need to support our planned growth. To execute our growth plan, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. We need to hire additional personnel in virtually all operational areas, including selling and marketing, research and development, operations and technical support, customer service and administration. Competition for these personnel is intense, especially for engineers with high levels of experience in designing and developing software and internet-related products. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. We have from time to time in the past experienced, and we expect to continue to experience in the future, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have. If we fail to attract new personnel or retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could be severely harmed. Our systems may be vulnerable to security risks or service disruptions that could harm our business. Although we have taken measures to secure our systems against security risks and other causes of disruption of electronic services, our servers are vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins and service disruptions, which could lead to interruptions, delays, loss of data or the inability to process customer requests. Such events could be very expensive to remedy, could damage our reputation and could discourage existing and potential customers from using our products. Evolving regulation of the internet may affect us adversely. As internet commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state or foreign agencies becomes more likely. Such regulation is likely in the areas of user privacy, pricing, content and quality of products and services. Taxation of internet use or other charges imposed by government agencies or by private organizations for accessing the internet may also be imposed. Laws and regulations applying to the solicitation, collection or processing of personal or consumer information could affect our activities. Furthermore, any regulation imposing fees for internet use could result in a decline in the use of the internet and the viability of internet commerce, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. It may be difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as some provisions of Delaware law, may discourage, delay or prevent third parties from acquiring us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. For example, our certificate of incorporation provides for a classified board, with each board member serving a staggered three-year term. It also provides that stockholders may not fill board vacancies, call stockholder meetings or act by written consent. Our bylaws further provide that advance written notice is required prior to stockholder proposals. Each of these provisions makes it more difficult for stockholders to obtain control of our board or initiate actions that are opposed by the then current 27 board. Additionally, we have authorized preferred stock that is undesignated, making it possible for the board to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock with voting or other rights and preferences that could impede the success of any attempted change of control. Delaware law also could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by our board, including discouraging attempts that might result in a premium over the market price of the shares of common stock held by our stockholders. We do not intend to pay dividends. We have not declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock since we have been a publicly traded company. We currently intend to retain any future cash flows from operations to fund growth and, do not expect to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 