Item 1A. Risk Factors Management intends to continue Bancorp’s emphasis on growth over earnings for the foreseeable future. Management has actively sought growth of the institution in recent years by opening additional branches, one through acquisition, initiating internal growth programs, and completing one acquisition of a mortgage company. Bancorp may not be able to sustain its historical rate of growth or may not even be able to continue to grow at all. Various factors, such as economic conditions and competition, or the unavailability of suitable sites, may impede or prohibit the Bank from opening new branches. In addition, Bancorp may not be able to obtain the financing necessary to fund additional growth and may not be able to find suitable candidates for acquisition. Sustaining Bancorp’s growth has placed significant demands on management as well as on administrative, operational and financial resources. For Bancorp to continue to grow, it must: attract and retain qualified management and experienced bankers, find suitable markets for expansion, find suitable, affordable branch locations, attract funding to support additional growth, maintain high asset quality levels, maintain adequate regulatory capital and maintain adequate controls. Although management believes that earnings will increase as the franchise is expanded, the rate of increase in earnings will be adversely affected by the costs associated with opening new branches and the time necessary to build a customer base in each new branch’s market area. If Bancorp is unable to continue its historical levels of growth, or if growth comes at greater financial expense than has been incurred in the past, Bancorp may not be able to achieve its financial goals and profitability may be adversely affected. 9 Bancorp intends to expand into a new geographic market in which current senior management has limited experience. Bancorp intends to expand into Westchester County and the surrounding counties in New York State. In November 2006, Bancorp acquired a small branch office in New York City, New York from another financial institution. This acquisition will allow Bancorp to establish additional bank branch offices in Westchester County, New York, which was the primary purpose for the acquisition. Bancorp does not plan further branch expansion in New York City at this time. Bancorp has received regulatory approval for and entered into a lease agreement to establish a branch in Bedford, New York; management anticipates that this office will open during the second quarter of 2007. The vast majority of Bancorp’s deposits and loans are derived from and made to customers who live and work in Fairfield County, Connecticut. Although management believes that the demographics for Westchester County, New York closely resemble those of Fairfield County Connecticut, the Bank does not currently conduct significant deposit activity in New York State. The senior management team includes several individuals with substantial banking experience in Connecticut, but with less experience in New York. Bancorp’s ability to compete effectively in New York State will depend in part on management’s ability to hire and retain key employees who have extensive banking experience in the Westchester County. Bancorp has no experience opening bank branch offices in Westchester County, New York. Historically, Bancorp’s investment in capital equipment to establish a new branch office has ranged between $315,000 and $450,000; however, total branch operating costs also include a variety of variable costs, including the prevailing rental rates in the local branch office area, the size of the branch, the availability of facilities that are ready to be operated as bank branches, and the number of employees. Bancorp has not opened branches in Westchester County in the past and may not be able to accurately estimate the variable costs associated with opening branch offices in this area. If management underestimates these variable costs, then the branches Bancorp establishes in these areas may prove to be more costly than anticipated and, as a further consequence, Bancorp’s branch expansion program may be delayed or reduced in scope, or both, which may have an adverse effect on Bancorp’s business and results of operations. Because Bancorp intends to increase its commercial real estate, construction and commercial business loan originations, its lending risk will increase, and downturns in the real estate market could adversely affect its earnings. Commercial real estate, construction and commercial business loans generally have more risk than residential mortgage loans. Both commercial real estate and construction loans, for example, often involve larger loan balances concentrated with single borrowers or groups of related borrowers as compared to single-family residential loans. Construction loans are secured by the property under construction, the value of which is uncertain prior to completion. Thus, it is more difficult to evaluate accurately the total loan funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratios. Speculative construction loans involve additional risk because the builder does not have a contract for the sale of the property at the time of construction. 10 Because the repayment of commercial real estate, construction and commercial business loans depends on the successful management and operation of the borrower’s properties or related businesses, repayments of such loans can be affected by adverse conditions in the real estate market or local economy. A significant portion of Bancorp’s total loan portfolio is secured by real estate located in Fairfield County, Connecticut and Westchester County, New York. As a result, a downturn in the real estate market, especially within Bancorp’s market area, could adversely impact the value of properties securing these loans. Bancorp’s ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the underlying real estate would be diminished, and Bancorp would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. As its commercial real estate, construction and commercial business loan portfolios increase, the corresponding risks and potential for losses from these loans may also increase. Bancorp’s business is subject to various lending and other economic risks that could adversely impact Bancorp’s results of operations and financial condition. Changes in economic conditions, particularly an economic slowdown in Fairfield County, Connecticut and the New York metropolitan area, could hurt Bancorp’s financial performance. Bancorp’s business is directly affected by political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes and changes in governmental monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond Bancorp’s control. A deterioration in economic conditions, in particular an economic slowdown within Fairfield County, Connecticut and/or the New York metropolitan area, could result in the following consequences, any of which may hurt the business of Bancorp materially: loan delinquencies may increase; problem assets and foreclosures may increase; demand for the Bank’s products and services may decline; and assets and collateral associated with the Bank’s loans, especially real estate, may decline in value, thereby reducing a customer’s borrowing power. The Bank may suffer losses in its loan portfolio despite its underwriting practices. The Bank seeks to mitigate the risks inherent in its loan portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting practices. These practices include analysis of a borrower’s prior credit history, financial statements, tax returns and cash flow projections, valuation of collateral based on reports of independent appraisers and verification of liquid assets. Although the Bank believes that its underwriting criteria is appropriate for the various types of loans the Bank makes, the Bank may still incur losses on loans, and these losses may exceed the amounts set aside as reserves in the allowance for loan losses. Bancorp’s allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. Like all financial institutions, the Bank maintains an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance. The allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect Bancorp’s operating results. The allowance for loan losses is based on an evaluation of the risks associated with the Bank’s loans receivable as well as the Bank’s prior loss experience. A substantial portion of the Bank’s loans are unseasoned and lack an established record of performance. To date, losses have been negligible. The amount of future losses is susceptible to 11 changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond the Bank’s control and these losses may exceed current estimates. Federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review the Bank’s loans and assess the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses. While management believes that the allowance for loan losses is adequate to cover current losses, management cannot assure shareholders that there will not be a need to increase the allowance for loan losses or that the regulators will not require management to increase this allowance. Either of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect Bancorp’s earnings and profitability. Bancorp’s business is subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively affect Bancorp’s financial performance. Bancorp is unable to predict fluctuations of market interest rates, which are affected by many factors including: inflation, recession, a rise in unemployment, a tightening money supply and domestic and international disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. Changes in the interest rate environment may reduce Bancorp’s profits. Bancorp realizes income from the differential or “spread” between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. Net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and repricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Bancorp is vulnerable to a decrease in interest rates because its interest-earning assets generally have shorter durations than its interest-bearing liabilities. As a result, material and prolonged decreases in interest rates would decrease Bancorp’s net interest income. In contrast, an increase in the general level of interest rates may adversely affect the ability of some borrowers to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect Bancorp’s net interest spread, asset quality, levels of prepayments and cash flow as well as the market value of its securities portfolio and overall profitability. Mortgage brokerage activity is also affected by interest rate fluctuations. Generally, increases in interest rates often lead to decreases in home refinancing activity, thus reducing the number of mortgage loans that Bancorp originates. Bancorp’s investment portfolio includes securities which are sensitive to interest rates and variations in interest rates may adversely impact Bancorp’s profitability. Bancorp’s securities portfolio is classified as available-for-sale, and is comprised of mortgage-backed securities which are insured or guaranteed by U.S. government agencies or government-sponsored enterprises, U.S. government agency securities and money market preferred equity securities. These securities are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations. Unrealized gains or losses in the available-for-sale portfolio are reported as a separate component of shareholders’ equity. As a result, future interest rate fluctuations may impact shareholders’ equity, causing material fluctuations from quarter to quarter. Failure to hold its securities until: payments are received on mortgage-backed securities, other investments mature or market conditions are favorable for a sale could adversely affect Bancorp’s earnings and profitability. 12 Bancorp is dependent on its management team, and the loss of its senior executive officers or other key employees could impair its relationship with its customers and adversely affect its business and financial results. Bancorp’s success is dependent upon the continued services and skills of Angelo De Caro, Charles F. Howell, Robert F. O’Connell, Philip W. Wolford and other senior officers including Martin G. Noble, its chief lender, Marcus Zavattaro, its sales manager of retail brokerage, and John Kantzas, a founder and an executive vice president. While Bancorp has employment agreements containing non-competition provisions with Messrs. Howell, O’Connell and Zavattaro, these agreements do not prevent any of them from terminating their employment with Bancorp. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of these key personnel could have an adverse impact on Bancorp’s business because of their skills, knowledge of Bancorp’s market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. Bancorp’s success also depends, in part, on its continued ability to attract and retain experienced commercial lenders and residential mortgage originators, as well as other management personnel. The loss of the services of several of such key personnel could adversely affect Bancorp’s growth strategy and prospects to the extent it is unable to replace such personnel. In the past year, Bancorp has hired several experienced commercial loan officers who have strong business relationships in order to expand and enhance its current deposit and commercial banking operations. Competition for commercial lenders and residential mortgage originators is strong within the commercial banking and mortgage banking industries, and Bancorp may not be successful in retaining or attracting additional personnel necessary to maintain its growth plans. A breach of information security could negatively affect Bancorp’s earnings. Bancorp increasingly depends upon data processing, communications and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks, and over the internet to conduct its business. Bancorp cannot be certain that all of its systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack, despite safeguards it has instituted. In addition, Bancorp relies on the services of a variety of vendors to meet its data processing and communication needs. If information security is breached, information can be lost or misappropriated; this could result in financial loss or costs to Bancorp or damages to others. These costs or losses could materially exceed the amount of insurance coverage, if any, which would have an adverse effect on Bancorp’s results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the Bank’s reputation could be harmed, which also could materially adversely affect Bancorp’s financial condition and results of operation. 13 Risks Related to Bancorp’s industry Strong competition within Bancorp’s market area may limit the growth and profitability of the Company. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. The Fairfield County, Connecticut and the New York City metropolitan areas have a high concentration of financial institutions including large money center and regional banks, community banks and credit unions. Some of Bancorp’s competitors offer products and services that the Bank currently does not offer, such as private banking and trust services. The Bank’s recent purchase of a small branch in New York City, New York and future expansion into Westchester County, New York, will expose the Bank to more competition in markets where it is not well known. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than Bancorp and may offer certain services that it does not or cannot provide. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in the Bank earning less on its loans and paying more for deposits, which reduces net interest income. Bancorp expects competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes. Bancorp’s profitability depends upon its continued ability to successfully compete in its market area. Government regulation may have an adverse effect on Bancorp’s profitability and growth. Bancorp is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, or the OCC, as the Bank’s chartering authority, by the FDIC, as insurer of the deposits, and by the Federal Reserve Board as regulator of Bancorp. Changes in state and federal banking laws and regulations or in federal monetary policies could adversely affect the Bank’s ability to maintain profitability and continue to grow. For example, new legislation or regulation could limit the manner in which Bancorp may conduct its business, including the Bank’s ability to obtain financing, attract deposits, make loans and achieve satisfactory interest spreads. Many of these regulations are intended to protect depositors, the public and the FDIC, not shareholders. In addition, the burden imposed by federal and state regulations may place the Company at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors who are less regulated. The laws, regulations, interpretations and enforcement policies that apply to Bancorp have been subject to significant, and sometimes retroactively applied, changes in recent years, and may change significantly in the future. Future legislation or government policy may also adversely affect the banking industry or Bancorp’s operations. Changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure. Recently enacted laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and NASDAQ rules, are adding to the responsibilities that companies, such as Bancorp, have. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could make compliance more difficult and result in higher costs. Bancorp is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, Bancorp’s efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to 14 continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In addition, during the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007, Bancorp will be required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding its required assessment of its internal controls over financial reporting and its external auditors’ audit of that assessment. In order to prepare for this, Bancorp began committing significant financial and managerial resources to this effort in 2006. If Bancorp does not effectively comply with these laws, regulations and standards, its reputation may be harmed. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Bancorp has no unresolved comments from the SEC staff. Item 