ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to our Operations Our products and services face increasing competition that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive industry. In some instances, we face competitors with fewer regulatory burdens, easier access to financing, greater resources and operating capabilities, more brand name recognition and long-standing relationships with regulatory authorities and customers. Our principal competitors are DBS providers and local telephone companies. As a result of such competition, our revenue growth rates may slow or decline if our customer base erodes or our revenue per unit suffers, and we may also see increases in the cost of gaining and retaining customers. DBS providers, principally DirecTV and DISH, are our most significant video competitors. We have lost a significant number of video subscribers to DBS providers in the past, and will continue to face challenges from them. Recently, the primary DBS providers have been very aggressive in their pricing policies. If these pricing, and other aggressive promotional tactics continue, we may continue to face significant losses of video customers. See “Business — Competition — Direct Broadcast Satellite Providers” Certain local telephone companies, including AT&T and Verizon, continue to deploy fiber more extensively in their networks, allowing them to offer video, HSD and phone services to consumers in bundled packages similar to those which we currently provide. In some cases, DBS providers have marketing agreements under which local telephone companies sell DBS service bundled with their phone and HSD services. We also face competition from municipal entities that provide video, HSD and phone services. Many of the companies that provide content have increased their offerings of video streamed over the Internet, often accessed free of charge. If this trend continues, it could negatively impact demand for our video services. See “Business — Competition — Local Telephone Companies” Our HSD service faces competition from: local telephone companies utilizing their upgraded fiber networks and/or DSL lines; Wi-Fi, Wi-Max and wireless Internet services provided by wireless service providers; broadband over power line providers; and providers of traditional dial-up Internet access. Existing and potential competitors have applied for funds under the American Recovery Act of 2009 economic stimulus programs, and will likely be eligible to apply for more going forward. If successful, these additional funds may allow them to build or expand facilities faster, and deploy existing and new services sooner, and to more areas, than they otherwise would. Our phone service faces competition for voice customers from local telephone companies, wireless telephone service providers, VoIP services and others. Competition in phone service has intensified as more consumers are replacing their wireline service with wireless service. Weak economic conditions may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Weak economic conditions persist, particularly unemployment and slack consumer demand. Most of our revenues are provided by residential customers who may downgrade their services, or discontinue some, or all of their services, if these economic conditions continue or further weaken. We may be unable to keep pace with rapid technological change that could adversely affect our business and our results of operations. We operate in a rapidly changing environment and our success depends, in part, on our ability to enhance existing or adopt new technologies to maintain or improve our competitive positioning. It may be difficult to keep pace with future technological developments, and if we fail to choose technologies that provide products and services that are preferred by our customers which are cost efficient to us, we may experience customer losses and our results of operations may be adversely affected. 24 Table of Contents The continuing increases in programming costs may have an adverse affect on our results of operations. Programming costs have historically been our largest single expense category and have risen dramatically over the last several years. The largest increases have come from sports programming and, more recently, from broadcast stations in the form of retransmission consent fees. We expect programming costs to continue to grow in the coming years, largely as a result of both increased unit costs charged by the satellite delivered networks we carry, in addition to increasing financial demands by local broadcast stations to obtain their retransmission consent. If we refuse to meet the demands of these broadcast station owners, or are unable to negotiate reasonable contracts with non-broadcast networks, we may not be able to transmit these stations, which may result in the loss of existing or potential additional subscribers. Our video service profit margins have declined over the last several years, as the cost to secure cable programming and broadcast station retransmission consent outpaces video revenue growth. If we are unable to increase subscriber rates or offer additional services to fully offset such programming costs, our video service margins will continue to deteriorate. We may be unable to secure necessary hardware, software, telecommunications and operational support that may impair our ability to provision and service our customers and adversely affect our business. Third-party firms provide some of the components used in delivering our products and services, including digital set-top converter boxes, DVRs and VOD equipment; routers and other switching equipment, provisioning and other software; network connections for our phone services; fiber optic cable and construction services for expansion and upgrades of our networks and cable systems; and our customer billing platform. Some of these companies may hold leverage over us, considering that they are the sole supplier of certain products and services, or there may be a long lead time and/or significant expense required to transition to another provider. As a result, our operations depend on a successful relationship with these companies. Any delays or disruptions in the relationship as a result of contractual disagreements, operational or financial failures on the part of the suppliers, or other adverse events, could negatively affect our ability to effectively provision and service our customers. Demand for some of these items has increased with the general growth in demand for Internet and telecommunications services. We typically do not carry significant inventories, and therefore any delays in our ability to obtain equipment could impact our operations. Moreover, if there are no suppliers that are able to provide set-top converter boxes that comply with evolving Internet and telecommunications standards, or that are compatible with other equipment and software that we use, this could negatively affect our ability to effectively provision and service our customers. We also have outsourcing arrangements with certain telephony providers in connection with our provision of HSD and telephony services to our customers. We are in the process of transitioning our telephony services to an in-house platform, and unexpected delays or disruptions in the transition process may adversely affect our customers and our business. We depend on network and information systems and other technologies. A disruption or failure in such systems and technologies, or in our ability to transition from one system to another, could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because of the importance of network and information systems and other technologies to our business, any events affecting these systems and technologies could have a devastating impact on our business. These events could include: computer hacking, computer viruses, worms or other disruptive software, process breakdowns, denial of service attacks and other malicious activities or any combination of the foregoing; and natural disasters, power outages and man-made disasters. Such occurrences may cause service disruptions, loss of customers and revenues and negative publicity, which may result in significant expenditures to repair or replace the damaged infrastructure, or protect from similar occurrences in the future. We may also be negatively affected by the illegal acquisition and dissemination of data and information, including customer, personnel, and vendor data, and this may require us to expend significant capital and other resources to remedy any such security breach. 25 Table of Contents Our business depends on certain intellectual property rights and on not infringing on the intellectual property rights of others. We rely on our copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, as well as licenses and other agreements with our vendors and other parties, to use our technologies, conduct our operations and sell our products and services. Third-party firms have in the past, and may in the future, assert claims or initiate litigation related to exclusive patent, copyright, trademark, and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related standards that are relevant to us. These assertions have increased over time as a result of our growth and the general increase in the pace of patent claims assertions, particularly in the United States. Because of the existence of a large number of patents in the networking field, the secrecy of some pending patents and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is not economically practical or even possible to determine in advance whether a product or any of its components infringes or will infringe on the patent rights of others. Asserted claims and/or initiated litigation can include claims against us or our manufacturers, suppliers, or customers, alleging infringement of their proprietary rights with respect to our existing or future products and/or services or components of those products and/or services. Regardless of the merit of these claims, they can be time-consuming; result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel; and require us to develop a non-infringing technology or enter into license agreements. There can be no assurance that licenses will be available on acceptable terms and conditions, if at all, or that our indemnification by our suppliers will be adequate to cover our costs if a claim were brought directly against us or our customers. Furthermore, because of the potential for high court awards that are not necessarily predictable, it is not unusual to find even arguably unmeritorious claims settled for significant amounts. If any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us by any third-party is successful, if we are required to indemnify a customer with respect to a claim against the customer, or if we fail to develop non-infringing technology or license the proprietary rights on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. Some of our cable systems operate in the Gulf Coast region, which historically has experienced severe hurricanes and tropical storms. Cable systems serving approximately 11% of our subscribers are located on or near the Gulf Coast in Alabama, Florida and Mississippi. In 2004 and 2005, three hurricanes impacted these cable systems to varying degrees causing property damage, service interruption and loss of customers. If the Gulf Coast region were to experience severe hurricanes in the future, this could adversely impact our results of operations in affected areas, causing us to experience higher than normal levels of expense and capital expenditures, as well as the potential loss of customers and revenues. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success is substantially dependent upon the retention of, and the continued performance by, our key personnel, including Rocco B. Commisso, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Our debt arrangements provide that a default may result if Mr. Commisso ceases to be our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, or if he and his designees do not constitute a majority of the Executive Committee of each of Mediacom LLC and Mediacom Broadband LLC, our principal subsidiaries. We have not entered into a long-term employment agreement with Mr. Commisso, and we do not currently maintain key man life insurance on Mr. Commisso or other key personnel. If any of our key personnel ceases to participate in our business and operations, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to our Financial Condition We are exposed to risks caused by disruptions in the capital and credit markets, which could have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on the capital markets for senior note offerings, and the credit markets for bank credit arrangements, to meet our financial commitments and liquidity needs. The U.S. economy has fallen into a deep recession, with major downturns in financial markets and the collapse or significant weakening of many banks and other financial institutions. The capital and credit markets tightened, making it more difficult for us and many companies to obtain 26 Table of Contents financing at all or on terms comparable to those available over the past several years. Future disruptions in such markets could cause our counterparty banks to be unable to fulfill their commitments to us, potentially reducing amounts available to us under our revolving credit commitments, or subjecting us to greater credit risk with respect to our interest rate exchange agreements. At this time, we are not aware of any of our counterparty banks being in a position where they would be unable to fulfill their obligations to us. However, we are unable to predict future movements in the capital and credit markets or the underlying effects on our results of operations. We have substantial debt, we are highly leveraged and we have significant interest payments and debt repayments, which could limit our operational flexibility and have an adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2009, our total debt was approximately $3.365 billion. Because of our substantial indebtedness, we are highly leveraged and will continue to be so. Our overall leverage could: • limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures or acquisitions; • limit our ability to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us or at all; • limit our ability to adapt to changing market conditions; • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or cause us to make divestitures; • require us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to paying the principal of and interest on our indebtedness; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the communications industry generally; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with competitors that have a less significant debt burden; and • make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures. Our debt service obligations require us to use a large portion of our revenues and cash flows to pay principal and interest, reducing our ability to finance our operations, capital expenditures and other activities. For 2009, our cash interest expense was $216.4 million and our term loan principal payments were $125.3 million. A portion of our debt, including outstanding debt under our revolving credit facilities and term loans, have a variable rate of interest determined by the Eurodollar rate plus a margin, which may vary depending on the ratio of senior indebtedness (as defined) under the credit facility to system cash flow (as defined). If we incurred additional debt under our revolving credit facilities, the Eurodollar rate were to rise and/or our system cash flow decreased, we would be required to pay additional interest expense, which would have an adverse affect on our results of operations. Our business is very capital intensive, and requires significant annual outlays primarily for new digital video cable boxes and modems, and cable network and related infrastructure. In 2009, our capital expenditures were approximately $237 million. We expect these capital expenditures to continue to be significant over the next several years, as we continue to market our products and services to our customers. We believe that cash generated by us or available to us will meet our anticipated capital and liquidity needs for the foreseeable future. However, in the longer term, specifically 2015 and beyond, we may not have enough cash available to satisfy our maturing term loans and senior notes. Accordingly, we may have to refinance existing obligations to extend maturities, or raise additional capital through debt or equity issuances or both. There can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance our existing obligations or raise any required additional capital or to do so on favorable terms. If we do not successfully accomplish these tasks, then we may have to cancel or scale back future capital spending programs, or sell assets. Failure to make capital investments in our business could materially and adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. 27 Table of Contents We are a holding company, and if the operating subsidiaries of our principal subsidiaries are unable to make funds available to our principal subsidiaries, they may not be able to fund their indebtedness and other obligations. We are a holding company, and do not have any operations or hold any assets other than our investments in, and our advances to, our wholly-owned subsidiaries, Mediacom Broadband LLC and Mediacom LLC. The various operating subsidiaries of Mediacom Broadband LLC and Mediacom LLC (the “Operating Subsidiaries”) conduct all of our consolidated operations and own substantially all of our consolidated assets. The Operating Subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to make funds available to Mediacom Broadband LLC or Mediacom LLC. The only source of cash that Mediacom Broadband LLC and Mediacom LLC have to fund their senior notes (including, without limitation, the payment of interest on, and the repayment of principal) is the cash that their respective Operating Subsidiaries generate from operations and from borrowing under their subsidiaries’ credit facilities. The ability of the Operating Subsidiaries to make funds available to Mediacom Broadband LLC and Mediacom LLC in the form of dividends, loans, advances or other payments, will depend upon the operating results of such subsidiaries, applicable laws and contractual restrictions, including the covenants set forth in the credit agreements governing such subsidiaries’ credit facilities. If the Operating Subsidiaries were unable to make funds available to Mediacom Broadband LLC and Mediacom LLC, then Mediacom Broadband LLC and Mediacom LLC may not be able to make payments of principal or interest due under their senior notes. If such an event occurred, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as refinancing the senior notes of Mediacom Broadband LLC and Mediacom LLC or the outstanding debt of the Operating Subsidiaries at or before maturity, or raise additional capital through debt or equity issuance or both. If we were not able to successfully accomplish those tasks, then we may have to cancel or scale back future capital spending programs, or sell assets. There can be no assurance that any of the foregoing actions would be successful. Any inability to meet our debt service obligations or refinance our indebtedness would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. A default under our credit facilities or indentures could result in an acceleration of our indebtedness and other material adverse effects. The credit agreements governing our Operating Subsidiaries’ credit facilities contain various covenants that, among other things, impose certain limitations on mergers and acquisitions, consolidations and sales of certain assets, liens, the incurrence of additional indebtedness, certain restricted payments and certain transactions with affiliates. The principal financial covenant of our credit facilities requires compliance with a ratio of total senior indebtedness (as defined) to annualized system cash flow (as defined) of no more than 6.0 to 1.0. See Note 7 in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The indentures governing our senior notes also contain various covenants, though they are generally less restrictive than those found in our bank credit facilities. Such covenants restrict our ability, among other things, make certain distributions, investments and other restricted payments, sell certain assets, to make restricted payments, create certain liens, merge, consolidate or sell substantially all of our assets and enter into certain transactions with affiliates. The principal financial covenant of these senior notes has a limitation on the incurrence of additional indebtedness based upon a maximum ratio of total indebtedness to cash flow (as defined) of 8.5 to 1.0. See Note 7 in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The breach of any of these covenants could cause a default, which may result in the indebtedness becoming immediately due and payable. If this were to occur, we would be unable to adequately finance our operations. In addition, a default could result in a default or acceleration of our other indebtedness subject to cross-default provisions. If this occurs, we may not be able to pay our debts or borrow sufficient funds to refinance them. Even if new financing is available, it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us. The membership interests of our Operating Subsidiaries are pledged as collateral under our respective subsidiary credit facilities. A default under one of our subsidiary credit facilities could result in a foreclosure by the lenders on the membership interests pledged under that facility. Because we are dependent upon our Operating Subsidiaries for all of our cash flows, a 28 Table of Contents foreclosure would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. In the event of a liquidation or reorganization of any of our subsidiaries, the creditors of any of such subsidiaries, including trade creditors, would be entitled to a claim on the assets of such subsidiaries prior to any claims of the stockholders of any such subsidiaries, and those creditors are likely to be paid in full before any distribution is made to such stockholders. To the extent that we, or any of our direct or indirect subsidiaries, are a creditor of another of our subsidiaries, the claims of such creditor could be subordinated to any security interest in the assets of such subsidiary and/or any indebtedness of such subsidiary senior to that held by such creditor. A lowering of the ratings assigned to our debt securities by ratings agencies may increase our future borrowing costs and reduce our access to capital. Our future access to the debt markets and the terms and conditions we receive are influenced by our debt ratings. Our corporate credit ratings are B1, with a stable outlook, by Moody’s, and B+, with a stable outlook, by Standard and Poor’s. There can be no assurance that our debt ratings will not be lowered in the future by a rating agency. Any future downgrade to our credit ratings could result in higher interest rates on future debt issuance than we currently experience, or adversely impact our ability to raise additional funds. We have a history of net losses and we may continue to generate net losses in the future. Although we reported net income for the year ended December 31, 2009, we have a history of net losses, including net losses during the years ended December 31, 2008, and 2007, and we may report net losses in the future. In general, our net losses have principally resulted from depreciation and amortization expenses associated with our acquisitions, and capital expenditures related to expanding and upgrading of our cable systems, interest expense and other financing charges related to our indebtedness, and net losses on derivatives. If we were to report net losses in the future, these losses may limit our ability to attract needed financing, and to do so on favorable terms, as such losses may prevent some investors from investing in our securities. Changes to our valuation account for deferred tax assets can cause our net income or net loss to fluctuate significantly. As of December 31, 2009, we had pre-tax net operating loss carryforwards for federal purposes of approximately $2.4 billion and, if not utilized, they will expire in the years 2020 through 2029. Mostly due to these net operating loss carryforwards, as of December 31, 2009, we had total deferred tax assets of $245.3 million. We periodically assess the likelihood of realization of our deferred tax assets, considering all available evidence, both positive and negative, including our most recent performance, the scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities, our forecast of taxable income in future periods and the availability of prudent tax planning strategies. As a result of these assessments in prior years, we established valuation allowances on a portion of our deferred tax assets due to the uncertainty surrounding the realization of these assets. During the fourth quarter of 2009, there was a sufficient change in our ability to recover our deferred tax assets. We reversed a substantial portion of our valuation allowances on our deferred tax assets, based upon our assessment surrounding the likelihood of deferred tax asset realization. Our income tax expense in future periods will be reduced or increased based upon the amount of our taxable income and our ability to shelter taxable income through the use of these deferred tax assets. These changes could have a significant impact on our future earnings. Our ability to use net operating loss carry forwards (“NOLs”) to reduce future taxable income and thus reduce our federal income tax liability may be limited if there is a change in our ownership or if our taxable income does not reach sufficient levels. As of December 31, 2009, we have approximately $2.4 billion of U.S. federal NOLs available to reduce taxable income in future years that expire between 2020 and 2029. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (“Section 382”) imposes substantial limitations on a corporation’s ability to utilize NOLs if it experiences an 29 Table of Contents “ownership change.” The determination of whether an ownership change occurs is complex and, to some extent, dependent on information that is not publicly available. In general terms, an ownership change may result from transactions increasing the ownership of certain stockholders in the stock of a corporation by more than 50 percentage points over a three-year period. In the event of an ownership change, utilization of our pre-ownership change NOLs would be subject to an annual limitation under Section 382. Any unused NOLs in excess of the annual limitation may be carried over to later years. In addition, our ability to use our NOLs will be dependent on our ability to generate taxable income. Depending on the possible resulting limitations imposed by Section 382 or the timing of our ability to generate sufficient taxable income, a significant portion of our federal NOLs could expire before we would be able to use them. Our inability to utilize our federal NOLs may potentially accelerate cash tax payments by us and thus adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets could cause significant losses. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $2.0 billion of unamortized intangible assets, including goodwill of $220.0 million and franchise rights of $1.8 billion on our consolidated balance sheets. These intangible assets represented approximately 51% of our total assets. Accounting Standards Codification No. 350 — Intangibles — Goodwill and Other (“ASC 350”) requires that goodwill and other intangible assets deemed to have indefinite useful lives, such as cable franchise rights, cease to be amortized. ASC 350 also requires that goodwill and certain intangible assets be tested at least annually for impairment. If we find that the carrying value of goodwill or cable franchise rights exceeds its fair value, we will reduce the carrying value of the goodwill or intangible asset to the fair value, and will recognize an impairment loss in our results of operations. We follow the provisions of ASC 350 to test our goodwill and franchise rights for impairment. We assess the fair values of each cable system cluster using a discounted cash flow (“DCF”) methodology, under which the fair value of cable franchise rights are determined in a direct manner. Our DCF analysis uses significant (Level 3) unobservable inputs, which is described under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Valuation and Impairment Testing of Indefinite-Lived Intangibles.” This assessment involves significant judgment, including certain assumptions and estimates that determine future cash flow expectations and other future benefits, which are consistent with the expectations of buyers and sellers of cable systems in determining fair value. These assumptions and estimates include discount rates, estimated growth rates, terminal growth rates, comparable company data, revenues per customer, market penetration as a percentage of homes passed and operating margin. We also consider market transactions, market valuations, research analyst estimates and other valuations using multiples of operating income before depreciation and amortization to confirm the reasonableness of fair values determined by the DCF methodology. Since a number of factors may influence determinations of fair value of intangible assets, we are unable to predict whether impairments of goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangibles will occur in the future. However, significant impairment in value resulting in impairment charges may result if the estimates and assumptions used in the fair value determination change in the future. Such impairment could be significant and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any such impairment would result in our recognizing a corresponding write-off, which could cause us to report a significant noncash operating loss. Our annual impairment analysis was performed as of October 1, 2009 and resulted in no impairment. We may be required to conduct an impairment analysis prior to our anniversary date to the extent certain economic or business factors are present. Risks Related to Legislative and Regulatory Matters Changes in government regulation could adversely impact our business. The cable industry is subject to extensive legislation and regulation at the federal and local levels and, in some instances, at the state level. Additionally, our HSD and phone services are also subject to regulation, and additional regulation is under consideration. Many aspects of such regulation are currently the subject of judicial and administrative proceedings and legislative and administrative proposals, and lobbying efforts by us and our 30 Table of Contents competitors. We expect that court actions and regulatory proceedings will continue to refine our rights and obligations under applicable federal, state and local laws. The results of current or future judicial and administrative proceedings and legislative activities cannot be predicted. Modifications to existing requirements or imposition of new requirements or limitations could have an adverse impact on our business including those described below. See “Business — Legislation and Regulation.” Denials of franchise renewals or continued absence of franchise parity can adversely impact our business. Where state-issued franchises are not available, local franchising authorities may demand concessions, or other commitments, as a condition to renewal, and these concessions or other commitments could be costly. Although the Cable Act affords certain protections, there is no assurance that we will not be compelled to meet their demands in order to obtain renewals. Our cable systems are operated under non-exclusive franchises. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 13% of the estimated homes passed by our cable systems were also served by other cable operators. Because of the FCC’s actions to speed issuance of local competitive franchises and because many states in which we operate cable systems have adopted and other states may adopt legislation to allow others, including local telephone companies, to deliver services in competition with our cable service without obtaining equivalent local franchises, we may face not only increasing competition but we may be at a competitive disadvantage due to lack of regulatory parity. Any of these factors could adversely affect our business. See “Business — Legislation and Regulation — Cable System Operations and Cable Services — State and Local Regulation — Franchise Matters.” Changes in carriage requirements could impose additional cost burdens on us. Any change that increases the amount of content that we must carry on our cable systems can adversely impact our business by increasing our cost and limiting our ability to carry other programming more valued by our subscribers or limit our ability to provide other services. For example, if we are required to carry more than the primary stream of digital broadcast signals or if the FCC regulations are put into effect that require us to provide either very low cost or no cost commercial leased access, our business would be adversely affected. See “Business — Legislation and Regulation — Cable System Operations and Cable Services — Federal Regulation — Content Regulations.” Pending FCC and court proceedings could adversely affect our HSD service. The regulatory status of providing HSD service by cable companies remains uncertain. If the FCC imposes additional regulatory burdens or further restricts the methods we may employ to manage the operation of our network through new “network neutrality” obligations or otherwise, our costs would increase, we may be required to make additional capital expenditures and our business would be adversely affected. See “Business — Legislation and Regulation — HSD Service — Federal Regulation.” Our phone service may become subject to additional regulation. The regulatory treatment of phone services that we and other providers offer remains uncertain. The FCC, Congress, the courts and the states continue to look at issues surrounding the provision of VoIP, including whether this service is properly classified as either a telecommunications service or an information service. Any changes to existing law as it applies to VoIP or any determination that results in greater or different regulatory obligations than competing services would result in increased costs, reduce anticipated revenues and impede our ability to effectively compete or otherwise adversely affect our ability to successfully roll-out and conduct our telephony business. See “Business — Legislation and Regulation — Voice-over-Internet-Protocol Telephony Service — Federal Law.” Changes in pole attachment regulations or actions by pole owners could significantly increased our pole attachment costs. Our cable facilities are often attached to, or use, public utility poles, ducts or conduits. Significant change to the FCC’s long-standing pole attachment “cable rate” formula, increases in pole attachment costs as a result of our provision of Internet, VoIP or other services could increase our pole attachment costs. Our business, financial 31 Table of Contents condition and results of operations could suffer a material adverse impact from any significant increased costs, and such increased pole attachment costs could discourage system upgrades and the introduction of new products and services. See “Business — Legislation and Regulation — Cable System Operations and Cable Services — Federal Regulation — Pole Attachment Regulation.” Changes in compulsory copyright regulations could significantly increase our license fees. If Congress enacts the proposed revisions to the Copyright Act, it could impose oversight and conditions that could adversely affect our business. Additionally, the Copyright Office’s implementation of any such legislative changes could impose requirements on us or permit overly intrusive access to financial and operational records. Any future decision by Congress to eliminate the cable compulsory license, which would require us to obtain copyright licensing of all broadcast material at the source, would impose significant administrative burdens and additional costs that could adversely affect our business. See “Business — Legislation and Regulation — Cable System Operations and Cable Services — Federal Regulation — Copyright.” Risks Related to our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer’s Controlling Position Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer has the ability to control all major corporate decisions, and a sale of his stock could result in a change of control that would have unpredictable effects. Rocco B. Commisso, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owned shares of our common stock representing approximately 87.2% of the aggregate voting power as of December 31, 2009. As a result, Mr. Commisso generally has the ability to control the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of our entire board of directors, the approval of any merger or consolidation and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, Mr. Commisso’s voting power may have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire us because any such acquisition would require his consent. Pursuant to a Significant Stockholder Agreement, dated September 7, 2008, Mr. Commisso has agreed not to consummate prior to September 7, 2010 an extraordinary transaction involving us without the recommendation of a majority of either (i) the disinterested directors that are members of our board of directors or (ii) the members of a special committee of our board consisting of disinterested directors. We cannot assure you that Mr. Commisso will maintain all or any portion of his ownership, or that he would continue as an officer or director if he sold a significant part of his stock. The disposition by Mr. Commisso of a sufficient number of shares could result in a change in control of our company, and no assurance can be given that a change of control would not adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. A change in control could also result in a default under our debt arrangements, could require us to offer to repurchase our senior notes at 101% of their principal amount, could trigger a variety of federal, state and local regulatory consent requirements and potentially limit our utilization of net operating losses for income tax purposes. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 