Item 1A. Risk Factors Our future operating results could differ materially from the results described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K due to the risks and uncertainties described below. We cannot assure investors that our assumptions and expectations will prove to have been correct. Important factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated or implied by forward-looking statements. See “Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” on page 2 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Such factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include those factors discussed below. Risks Related to our Business If we incur operating losses for longer than we expect, we may be unable to continue our operations. From our inception through December 31, 2005, we have generated net losses totaling approximately $410 million. Our net losses for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, were approximately $74.1 million, $56.2 million, and $65.9 million, respectively. We expect to incur significant losses over the next several years as we continue our clinical trials, apply for regulatory approvals, and continue development of our technologies. Phase 3 clinical trials are particularly expensive to conduct, and in February 2005 we initiated part II of our Phase 3 clinical trial in renal cell carcinoma. Furthermore, our ability to generate cash from operations is dependent on if and when we will be able to commercialize our product candidates. Although we implemented cost-cutting measures late in 2005, the anticipated savings may not be at the levels anticipated. If we incur operating losses for longer than we expect, we may be unable to continue our operations. If we fail to obtain the capital necessary to fund our operations, we will be unable to advance our development programs and complete our clinical trials. On December 31, 2005, we had approximately $61.7 million in cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments. With our current working capital we expect that we can fund our planned development programs, clinical trials, and other operating expenses into early 2007. We plan to attempt to raise additional funds prior to that time. For the year ended December 31, 2005, the sum of our average monthly cash used in operating activities plus our average monthly capital expenditures was approximately $5.7 million. Total capital expenditures for the year ended December 31, 2005 were $2.7 million and we anticipate capital expenditures of up to $1.2 million during 2006. Since our inception, we have financed our operations principally by sales of equity and convertible debt instruments. In order to finance our future operations, we will be required to raise additional funds in the capital markets, through arrangements with corporate partners, or from other sources. Additional financing, however, may not be available on favorable terms or at all. If we are unable to raise additional funds when we need them, we will be required to delay, reduce, or eliminate some or all of our development programs and some or all of our clinical trials, including the development programs and clinical trials supporting our most advanced product candidate, Oncophage. We also may be forced to license technologies to others under agreements that allocate to third parties substantial portions of the potential value of these technologies. We have significant long-term debt, and we may not be able to make interest or principal payments when due. As of December 31, 2005, our total long-term debt, excluding the current portion, was approximately $50.0 million. Our 5.25% convertible senior notes due 2025 do not restrict our ability or the ability of our subsidiaries 28 Table of Contents to incur additional indebtedness, including debt that effectively ranks senior to the notes. On each of February 1, 2012, February 1, 2015 and February 1, 2020, holders may require us to purchase their notes for cash equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes, plus any accrued and unpaid interest. Holders may also require us to repurchase their notes upon a fundamental change, as defined, at a repurchase price, in cash, equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be repurchased, plus any accrued and unpaid interest and, in some cases, an additional “make-whole” premium. Our ability to satisfy our obligations will depend upon our future performance, which is subject to many factors, including the factors identified in this “Risk Factors” section, and other factors beyond our control. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our indebtedness, we may be required, among other things: • to seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; • to refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness, including the notes; • to sell assets; and/or • to reduce or delay planned expenditures on research and development and/or commercialization activities. Such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt. In addition, any such financing, refinancing, or sale of assets might not be available on economically favorable terms. To date, we have had negative cash flow from operations. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, net cash used in operating activities was approximately $66.3 million, $60.2 million, and $51.7 million, respectively. Assuming no additional interest-bearing debt is incurred and none of the notes are converted, redeemed, repurchased, or exchanged before February 1, 2012, our debt service requirements (payments of principal and interest) are approximately $6.8 million during 2006, $2.7 million during 2007 and $2.6 million annually during 2008 and thereafter until the notes are no longer outstanding. Because the FDA has told us that part I of our current Phase 3 trial in renal cell carcinoma, by itself, will not be sufficient to support a biologics license application for product approval, unless the FDA changes its position, we would not expect to generate product revenue from sales of Oncophage for at least several years, if ever. On September 3, 2003, the FDA placed our Phase 3 Oncophage clinical trials in renal cell carcinoma and in melanoma on partial clinical hold. The FDA’s written correspondence instituting the partial clinical hold indicated that Oncophage was not sufficiently characterized. On October 22, 2003, we submitted to the FDA additional specifications for purity, identity, potency and pH, which represent product characterization data, and on November 23, 2003, the FDA lifted the partial clinical hold. Even though the FDA lifted the partial clinical hold, the FDA has informed us that, for purposes of part I of our Phase 3 trial in renal cell carcinoma and our Phase 3 trial in melanoma, Oncophage has been insufficiently characterized and that the results obtained with an insufficiently characterized product could not be used to provide efficacy data in support of a biologics license application, or BLA. The FDA deemed the Oncophage provided to patients before December 2003 to be insufficiently characterized because it had not undergone the full battery of tests required for drugs used in pivotal trials. Some of these tests, such as potency assays, were not fully developed until after September 2003. The imposition of the partial clinical hold prevented us from enrolling new patients in our Phase 3 clinical trials 29 Table of Contents between September 3, 2003 and November 21, 2003. We believe that we addressed the comments the FDA raised in connection with the partial clinical hold. After the clinical hold was lifted, the FDA asked us to implement the use of potency assays to release vaccine lots for all trials of Oncophage, including our Phase 3 trials. Subsequently, we submitted, during 2004, our validation package to the FDA for the potency assays, and in May 2005 we successfully concluded discussions with the FDA. Validation of the assays refers, in general terms, to establishing the robustness and reproducibility of the assays on an ongoing basis and under various different conditions to demonstrate that the potency assays work consistently. The potency assays have been used to test product administered since December 2003, and we have performed tests on frozen stored portions of product administered to patients prior to December 2003. We are currently reviewing these test results. This data will be submitted to FDA as part of any BLA filing for Oncophage. We believe we have addressed all product characterization issues raised by the FDA to date. Because the FDA has indicated that, by itself, part I of our ongoing Phase 3 clinical trial in renal cell carcinoma is not sufficient to support a BLA filing, we have expanded our clinical development plan by initiating a part II to this Phase 3 trial in a similar patient population. The FDA has agreed with this registration plan, which comprises two components — part I and part II. The FDA has told us that they consider part II of the trial as potentially providing the definitive evidence of safety and efficacy; however, we expect that part I will be accepted as part of the BLA filing. While the FDA has expressly excluded the possibility that part I of our renal cell carcinoma trial alone can support a BLA filing, we intend to complete part I, which is a large, controlled study, perform data analysis, and review the data closely. Should the results from the first part of the trial be clearly positive in terms of clinical outcomes, we plan to submit the data to the FDA and request that the agency reconsider its position regarding the use of the data from part I of the trial alone to support a BLA filing. We expect to support that position with data that may demonstrate that Oncophage used in part I of the study should be considered sufficiently characterized. We would expect to derive that data from the additional tests we performed on frozen stored portions of the product administered to patients prior to December 2003. We are currently reviewing these test results which we expect to have completed in time for any BLA filing. We believe that the FDA is unlikely to reverse its position unless part I of the trial demonstrates significant benefit to patients. We believe that demonstration of efficacy might be persuasive because (1) part I of our Phase 3 renal cell carcinoma trial is designed to show that patients being treated with Oncophage have a statistically significant benefit in terms of recurrence-free survival over patients in the observation arm, (2) Oncophage appears to have a favorable safety profile, particularly when compared with the toxicity associated with many cancer drugs, (3) part I of the trial represents the largest single randomized trial to date in this patient population, and (4) the patients with the stage of renal cell carcinoma addressed in this trial have no approved post-surgical treatment options. Other companies have submitted BLAs, and obtained approvals, based on data from non-definitive Phase 2 and Phase 3 studies while they complete confirmatory studies. We are not aware of a situation, however, in which the FDA has reconsidered its position that a clinical trial could not be considered pivotal, and therefore would not support licensure, because of its determination that the product candidate had been insufficiently characterized. However, as noted previously, we plan to attempt to demonstrate that our product candidate should be considered sufficiently characterized. There is no assurance that we will be successful in demonstrating that our product candidate is sufficiently characterized or that the FDA would accept such a strategy. The FDA usually requires prospective, rather than retrospective, testing. Even if we are able to demonstrate that the Oncophage used in part I of the trial should be considered sufficiently characterized and part I of the trial demonstrates significant benefit to patients, the FDA may 30 Table of Contents continue to adhere to its current position that the data from this part of the trial cannot, by itself, support a BLA filing. In addition, the FDA may interpret the results of our two potency tests as not indicating that the Oncophage used in part I of the trial is sufficiently characterized. Furthermore, part I may not reach statistical significance for its primary endpoint, or the FDA could determine that making Oncophage available based on the part I results is not in the best interests of patients. We estimate that completing part II of the study will take at least three years and cost between $20 million and $40 million. Furthermore, subject to securing additional financing and the part I results, we intend to continue with part II of the renal cell carcinoma study unless and until the FDA indicates that it is not necessary. We may not be able to secure additional financing to complete part II of the renal cell carcinoma trial even if the results from part I of the trial are positive. If we cannot secure additional financing, we may become insolvent. Because we expect to conduct additional Phase 3 clinical trials of Oncophage in the treatment of melanoma prior to submitting a BLA for this indication, we will not commercialize Oncophage in this indication for several years, if ever. We have concluded enrollment in a Phase 3 trial of Oncophage in patients with metastatic melanoma and in October 2005 released preliminary survival data. We anticipate commencing final analysis of this trial in the first quarter of 2006. Due to a relatively high failure rate in vaccine manufacturing, this study will not, by itself, support a BLA filing. Even if we had not experienced the high manufacturing failure rate, the FDA has indicated that this study, like part I of our Phase 3 renal cell carcinoma study, could not, by itself, support a BLA filing because the FDA views the Oncophage administered to patients in this study prior to December 2003 as insufficiently characterized. We have not yet had any specific discussions with the FDA regarding our clinical development plan for melanoma. Accordingly, we do not know the types of studies that the FDA will require to support a BLA filing. Even if the FDA were to indicate agreement with our clinical development plan, that plan may fail to support a BLA filing for many reasons, including failure of the trials to demonstrate that Oncophage is safe and effective in this indication, failure to conduct the studies in compliance with the clinical trial protocols, or a change in the FDA’s views. Our commercial launch of Oncophage may be delayed or prevented, which would diminish our business prospects. In December 2003, we announced that the Data Monitoring Committee, or DMC, had convened as scheduled for the interim analysis of part I of our Phase 3 clinical trial of Oncophage in the treatment of renal cell carcinoma. The DMC is a panel of cancer specialists who review the safety and conduct of the trial at regular intervals but are not otherwise involved in the study. The DMC has no direct relationship with the FDA but can make recommendations regarding the further conduct of the trial, and we report those recommendations to the FDA. The use of the DMC is intended to enhance patient safety and trial conduct. The DMC recommended that the trial proceed as planned and did not require that we change the number of patients required to meet the trial’s objectives. Part I of our Phase 3 renal cell carcinoma trial is designed with the intent to show that patients in the Oncophage arm demonstrate a statistically significant benefit in recurrence-free survival over the patients in the observation arm. We interpreted the recommendation by the DMC that we would not need to add patients in 31 Table of Contents order to potentially achieve the study objectives as an encouraging development, indicating that the trial could demonstrate the intended efficacy outcomes without increasing the number of patients in the trial. The DMC’s recommendations do not assure either that the trial will demonstrate statistically significant results or that the trial will prove adequate to support approval of Oncophage for commercialization in the treatment of patients with renal cell carcinoma. The assessment of the interim analysis by the DMC is preliminary. The final data from the trial may not demonstrate efficacy and safety. Furthermore, data from clinical trials are subject to varying interpretations. Inconclusive or negative data from part I of our Phase 3 renal cell carcinoma trial would have a significant negative impact on our prospects. If the results in any of our clinical trials are not positive, we may abandon development of Oncophage for the applicable indication. In October 2005 we announced preliminary survival data from our Phase 3 metastatic melanoma trial noting that in all randomized (intent-to-treat) stage IV M1a patients, median survival improved by more than 50 percent in the Oncophage-treated arm compared with those in the physician’s choice treatment arm (20.9 months versus 12.8 months), which included the current array of therapies such as chemotherapeutics, biological agents and/or surgery, although this difference was not statistically significant. The M1a category of stage IV melanoma patients (a category defined by the American Joint Committee on Cancer, or AJCC) was prospectively stratified for in this trial. Patients in this category are routinely identified in a clinical setting with distant metastases in the skin, subcutaneous tissue or distant lymph nodes. Overall, patients in the intent-to-treat Oncophage arm (M1a, b and c combined) fared similarly to those in the physician’s choice arm in terms of survival, although this result was not statistically significant. The final analysis of the data from this trial may not demonstrate a statistically significant survival benefit for any cohort within the treatment arm or on an overall basis. As we have previously stated, this study will not, by itself support a BLA filing. The drug development and approval process is uncertain, time-consuming and expensive. The process of obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals for new therapeutic products is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. It also can vary substantially based on the type, complexity, and novelty of the product. We must provide the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities with preclinical and clinical data demonstrating that our products are safe and effective before they can be approved for commercial sale. Clinical development, including preclinical testing, is a long, expensive and uncertain process. It may take us several years to complete our testing, and failure can occur at any stage of testing. Interim results of preclinical or clinical studies do not necessarily predict their final results, and acceptable results in early studies might not be seen in later studies. Any preclinical or clinical test may fail to produce results satisfactory to the FDA. Preclinical and clinical data can be interpreted in different ways, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Negative or inconclusive results from a preclinical study or clinical trial, adverse medical events during a clinical trial or safety issues resulting from products of the same class of drug could cause a preclinical study or clinical trial to be repeated or a program to be terminated, even if other studies or trials relating to the program are successful. Our most advanced product candidate, Oncophage, is a novel therapeutic cancer vaccine that is personalized for each patient, meaning it is derived from the patient’s own tumor. To date, the FDA has not approved any therapeutic cancer vaccines for commercial sale, and foreign regulatory agencies have approved only a limited number. Both the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies, including the European Medicines Agency responsible 32 Table of Contents for product approvals in Europe, and Health Canada responsible for product approvals in Canada, have relatively little experience in reviewing personalized oncology therapies, and the partial clinical hold that the FDA had placed, and subsequently lifted, on our Phase 3 Oncophage clinical trials primarily related to product characterization issues partially associated with the personalized nature of Oncophage. Oncophage may experience a long regulatory review process and high development costs, either of which could delay or prevent our commercialization efforts. We have also initiated communications with regulatory health authorities in other jurisdictions to discuss requirements for the approval of Oncophage in renal cell carcinoma. As of December 31, 2005, we have spent approximately 11 years and $204 million on our research and development program in heat shock proteins for cancer. To obtain regulatory approvals, we must, among other requirements, complete carefully controlled and well-designed preclinical studies and clinical trials demonstrating that a particular product candidate is safe and effective for the applicable disease. Several biotechnology companies have failed to obtain regulatory approvals because regulatory agencies were not satisfied with the structure or conduct of the preclinical studies and clinical trials or the ability to interpret the data from the trials; similar problems could delay or prevent us from obtaining approvals. We initiated part II of our Phase 3 trial for Oncophage in renal cell carcinoma in early 2005. Even after reviewing our protocol for this trial, the FDA and other regulatory agencies may not consider the trial to be adequate for registration and may disagree with our overall strategy to seek approval for Oncophage in renal cell carcinoma. In this event, the potential commercial launch of Oncophage would be at risk, which would likely have a materially negative impact on our ability to generate revenue and our ability to secure additional funding. We may not complete our planned preclinical studies or clinical trials on schedule or at all. We may not be able to confirm the safety and efficacy of our potential drugs in long-term clinical trials, which may result in a delay or failure to commercialize our products. The timing and success of a clinical trial is dependent on enrolling sufficient patients in a timely manner, avoiding serious or significant adverse patient reactions, and demonstrating efficacy of the product candidate in order to support a favorable risk versus benefit profile. Because we rely on third-party clinical investigators and contract research organizations to conduct our clinical trials, we may encounter delays outside our control, particularly if our relationships with any third-party clinical investigators or contract research organizations are adversarial. The timing and success of our Phase 3 trials, in particular, are also dependent on the FDA and other regulatory agencies accepting each trial’s protocol, statistical analysis plan, product characterization tests, and clinical data. If we are unable to satisfy the FDA and other regulatory agencies with such matters, including the specific matters noted above, or our Phase 3 trials yield inconclusive or negative results, we will be required to modify or expand the scope of our Phase 3 studies or conduct additional Phase 3 studies to support BLA filings, including additional studies beyond the new part II Phase 3 trial in renal cell carcinoma and our proposed additional Phase 3 trial in melanoma. In addition, the FDA may request additional information or data that is not readily available. Delays in our ability to respond to such an FDA request would delay, and failure to adequately address all FDA concerns would prevent, our commercialization efforts. Also, we, or the FDA, might further delay or halt our clinical trials for various reasons, including but not limited to: • we may fail to comply with extensive FDA regulations; • a product candidate may not appear to be more effective than current therapies; 33 Table of Contents • a product candidate may have unforeseen, undesirable or significant adverse side effects, toxicities or other characteristics; • the time required to determine whether a product candidate is effective may be longer than expected; • we may be unable to adequately follow or evaluate patients after treatment with a product candidate; • patients may die during a clinical trial because their disease is too advanced or because they experience medical problems that may not be related to the product candidate; • sufficient numbers of patients may not enroll in our clinical trials; or • we may be unable to produce sufficient quantities of a product candidate to complete the trial. Furthermore, regulatory authorities, including the FDA, may have varying interpretations of our preclinical and clinical trial data, which could delay, limit, or prevent regulatory approval or clearance. Any delays or difficulties in obtaining regulatory approvals or clearances for our product candidates may: • adversely affect the marketing of any products we or our collaborators develop; • impose significant additional costs on us or our collaborators; • diminish any competitive advantages that we or our collaborators may attain; and • limit our ability to receive royalties and generate revenue and profits. If we are delayed in these activities or do not receive regulatory approval for our product candidates in a timely manner, we will have to incur additional development expense and, subject to securing additional financing, we will not be able to commercialize them in the timeframe anticipated, and, therefore, our business will suffer. We must receive separate regulatory approvals for each of our product candidates for each type of disease indication before we can market and sell them in the United States or internationally. We and our collaborators cannot sell any drug or vaccine until we receive regulatory approval from governmental authorities in the United States and from similar agencies in other jurisdictions. Oncophage and any other drug candidate could take a significantly longer time to gain regulatory approval than we expect or may never gain approval or may gain approval for only limited indications. Even if we do receive regulatory approval for our product candidates, the FDA or international regulatory authorities will impose limitations on the indicated uses for which our products may be marketed or subsequently withdraw approval, or take other actions against us or our products adverse to our business. The FDA and international regulatory authorities generally approve products for particular indications. If an approval is for a limited indication, this limitation reduces the size of the potential market for that product. Product approvals, once granted, may be withdrawn if problems occur after initial marketing. Failure to comply with applicable FDA and other regulatory requirements can result in, among other things, warning letters, fines, injunctions, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, refusal of the government to renew marketing applications and criminal prosecution. 34 Table of Contents Delays enrolling patients in our studies will slow or prevent completion of clinical trials. We have encountered in the past, and may encounter in the future, delays in initiating trial sites and in enrolling patients into our clinical trials. Future enrollment delays will postpone the dates by which we expect to complete the impacted trials and the potential receipt of regulatory approvals. If we fail to enroll sufficient numbers of patients in clinical trials, the trials may fail to demonstrate the efficacy of a product candidate at a statistically significant level. While such trials may help support our efforts to obtain marketing approval, they generally would not, by themselves, be sufficient for obtaining approval. In our cancer trials, enrollment difficulties may arise due to many factors, including the novel nature of Oncophage, the identification of patients’ meeting the specific criteria for inclusion in our trials, the speed by which participating clinical trial sites review our protocol and allow enrollment, and any delay in contract negotiations between us and the participating clinical trial sites. In addition, we may encounter problems in our clinical trials due to increased pharmaceutical industry demand for clinical trial patients as well as limited patient availability due to the advanced disease state of the target patient population. Even if our patient enrollment is adequate, patients may die during a clinical trial if their disease is too advanced or because they experience problems that may be unrelated to the product candidate. A high dropout rate in a trial may undermine the ability to gain statistically significant data from the study. Because part I and part II of our Phase 3 clinical trials in renal cell carcinoma are event-driven studies, we cannot predict with certainty when data analysis will commence. Part I and part II of our Phase 3 trials in renal cell carcinoma are event-driven trials. Based on current trends, we anticipate that the analysis of part I of our Phase 3 trial in renal cell carcinoma will be complete in late March 2006. During the quarter ended September 30, 2004, part I of our Phase 3 renal cell carcinoma trial was closed to enrollment. The protocol stipulates that analysis of this trial should occur when a pre-specified number of events occur. An event is defined as a recurrence of a patient’s renal cell carcinoma or the death of a patient prior to disease recurrence. All patients are reviewed for determination of disease recurrence, on a blinded basis and regardless of the clinical investigator’s assessment of the presence of disease recurrence, by an independent Clinical Events Committee (“CEC”) comprised of expert radiologists and an expert oncologist. No assurance can be provided that the actual CEC determined events will be sufficient to have met the pre-specified number of events to trigger an analysis under the protocol. If new data from our research and development activities continues to modify our strategy, then we expect to continually adjust our projections of timelines and costs of programs; this uncertainty may depress the market price of our stock and increase our expenses. Because we are focused on novel technologies, our research and development activities, including our preclinical studies and clinical trials, involve the ongoing discovery of new facts and the generation of new data, based on which we determine next steps for a relevant program. These developments are sometimes a daily occurrence and constitute the basis on which our business is conducted. We need to make determinations on an ongoing basis as to which of these facts or data will influence timelines and costs of programs. We may not always be able to make such judgments accurately, which may increase the costs we incur attempting to commercialize our product candidates. These issues are pronounced in our efforts to commercialize Oncophage, which represents an unprecedented approach to the treatment of cancer. 35 Table of Contents We may need to successfully address a number of technological challenges in order to complete development of our products. Moreover, these products may not be effective in treating any disease or may prove to have undesirable or unintended side effects, toxicities or other characteristics that may preclude our obtaining regulatory approval or prevent or limit commercial use. Failure to enter into significant collaboration agreements may hinder our efforts to commercialize Oncophage and will increase our need to rely on equity sales to fund our operations. We are engaged in efforts to partner Oncophage, our most advanced product candidate, with a pharmaceutical or larger biotech company to assist us with global commercialization. While we have been pursuing these business development efforts for several years, we have not negotiated a definitive agreement relating to the potential commercialization of Oncophage. Many larger companies may be unwilling to commit to a substantial agreement prior to receipt of additional clinical data or, in the absence of such data, may demand economic terms that are unfavorable to us. Even if Oncophage generates favorable clinical data, we may not be able to negotiate a transaction that provides us with favorable economic terms. While some other biotechnology companies have negotiated large collaborations, we may not be able to negotiate any agreements with terms that replicate the terms negotiated by those other companies. We may not, for example, obtain significant upfront payments or substantial royalty rates. Some larger companies are skeptical of the commercial potential and profitability of a personalized product candidate like Oncophage. If we fail to enter into such collaboration agreements, our efforts to commercialize Oncophage may be undermined. In addition, if we do not raise funds through collaboration agreements, we will need to rely on sales of additional securities to fund our operations. Sales of additional equity securities may substantially dilute the ownership of existing stockholders. We may not receive significant payments from collaborators due to unsuccessful results in existing collaborations or failure to enter into future collaborations. Part of our strategy is to develop and commercialize some of our product candidates by continuing our existing arrangements with academic and corporate collaborators and licensees and by entering into new collaborations. Our success depends on our ability to negotiate such agreements and on the success of the other parties in performing research and preclinical and clinical testing. Our collaborations involving QS-21, for example, depend on our licensees successfully completing clinical trials and obtaining regulatory approvals. These activities frequently fail to produce marketable products. For example, in March 2002, Elan Corporation and Wyeth Ayerst Laboratories announced a decision to cease dosing patients in their Phase 2A clinical trial of their AN-1792 Alzheimer’s vaccine containing our QS-21 adjuvant after several patients experienced clinical signs consistent with inflammation in the central nervous system. Several of our agreements also require us to transfer important rights and regulatory compliance responsibilities to our collaborators and licensees. As a result of collaborative agreements, we will not completely control the nature, timing, or cost of bringing these product candidates to market. Our collaborators and licensees could choose not to devote resources to these arrangements or, under certain circumstances, may terminate these arrangements early. They may cease pursuing the programs or elect to collaborate with different companies. In addition, these collaborators and licensees, outside of their arrangements with us, may develop technologies or products that are competitive with those that we are developing. From time to time we may also become involved in disputes with our collaborators. As a result of these factors, our strategic collaborations may not yield revenue. In addition, we may be unable to enter into new collaborations or enter into new collaborations on favorable terms. Failure to generate significant revenue from collaborations would increase our need to fund our operations through sales of securities. 36 Table of Contents If we are unable to purify heat shock proteins from some cancer types, we may have difficulty successfully completing our clinical trials and, even if we do successfully complete our clinical trials, the size of our potential market could decrease. Our ability to successfully develop and commercialize Oncophage or AG-858 for a particular cancer type depends on our ability to purify heat shock proteins from that type of cancer. If we experience difficulties in purifying heat shock proteins for a sufficiently large number of patients in our clinical trials, including our Phase 3 clinical trials, it may lower the probability of a successful analysis of the data from these trials and, ultimately, the ability to obtain FDA approval. Our overall manufacturing success rate to date for part I of our Phase 3 trial in renal cell carcinoma is 92%; for our Phase 3 trial in metastatic melanoma, it is 70%. Our inability to manufacture adequate amounts of Oncophage for approximately 30% of the patients randomized in the Oncophage treatment arm of the metastatic melanoma trial undermines the potential for the trial to meet its pre-specified clinical endpoints. To address this lower success rate for melanoma, we instituted an inhibitor process to avoid the breakdown of proteins. Subsequent to the implementation of this change, we successfully produced Oncophage for 18 of 23 patients, a success rate of approximately 78%, whereas previously we had produced Oncophage for 123 of 179 patients. The small sample size used subsequent to our process change may make the reported improvement in our manufacturing success unreliable as a predictor of future success. We have successfully manufactured product for 100%, 14 of 14, of the patients randomized to treatment in our Phase 2 lung cancer trial and 95%, 21 of 22 patients, randomized to treatment in our Phase 2 metastatic renal cell carcinoma trial. Based on our completed earlier clinical trials and our ongoing clinical trials conducted in renal cell carcinoma (including part I of our Phase 3 trial), we have been able to manufacture Oncophage from 93% of the tumors delivered to our manufacturing facility; for melanoma (including our Phase 3 trial), 78%; for colorectal cancer, 98%; for gastric cancer, 81%; for lymphoma, 89%; and for pancreatic cancer, 46%. The relatively low rate for pancreatic cancer is due to the abundance of proteases in pancreatic tissue. Proteases are enzymes that break down proteins. These proteases may degrade the heat shock proteins during the purification process. We have made process development advances that have improved the manufacture of Oncophage from pancreatic tissue. In an expanded Phase 1 pancreatic cancer study, Oncophage was manufactured from five of five tumor samples (100%), bringing the aggregate success rate for this cancer type, which was previously 30%, to 46%. We have successfully manufactured AG-858 from approximately 83% of the patient samples received. We may encounter problems with other types of cancer as we expand our research. If we cannot overcome these problems, the number of cancer types that our heat shock protein product candidates could treat would be limited. In addition, if we commercialize our heat shock protein product candidates, we may face claims from patients for whom we are unable to produce a vaccine. Manufacturing problems may cause product launch delays and unanticipated costs. If Oncophage is approved for sale, we expect we would be required to manufacture substantially more than we have been required to manufacture for clinical and preclinical trials. We have no experience manufacturing Oncophage in commercial quantities, and we can provide no assurance that we will be able to do so successfully. We may experience higher manufacturing failure rates than we have in the past if and when we attempt to substantially increase production volume. Furthermore, because Oncophage is a personalized biologic, it requires product characterization steps that are more onerous than those required for most chemical pharmaceuticals. Accordingly, we employ multiple steps 37 Table of Contents to attempt to control the manufacturing processes. Minor deviations in these manufacturing processes could result in unacceptable changes in the vaccine that result in production failures. In addition, we may only be able to produce Oncophage at our facility in Lexington, Massachusetts. A number of factors could cause production interruptions at this facility, including equipment malfunctions, labor or employment retention problems, natural disasters, power outages, terrorist activities, or disruptions in the operations of our suppliers. We have no clinical or commercial-scale manufacturing capabilities for our products other than Oncophage and AG-858. In order to continue to develop our other products, apply for regulatory approvals and commercialize these products, we or our licensees or collaborators will need to develop, contract for or otherwise arrange for the necessary manufacturing capabilities. We currently rely and expect to continue to rely, upon other third parties, potentially including our collaborators, to produce materials required for preclinical studies and clinical trials and for these products. There are a limited number of contract manufacturers that operate under the FDA’s good manufacturing practices regulations capable of manufacturing our products other than Oncophage. If we are unable to arrange for third-party manufacturing of these products, or to do so on commercially reasonable terms, we may not be able to complete development of our products or commercialize them. Reliance on third-party manufacturers entails risks to which we would not be subject if we manufactured products ourselves, including reliance on the third party for regulatory compliance, the possibility of breach of the manufacturing agreement by the third party because of factors beyond our control and the possibility of termination or non-renewal of the agreement by the third party, based on its own business priorities, at a time that is costly or inconvenient for us. We may in the future elect to manufacture some of our products other than Oncophage in our own manufacturing facilities. We would need to invest substantial additional funds and recruit qualified personnel in order to build or lease and operate any manufacturing facilities. Manufacturing is also subject to extensive government regulation. Regulatory authorities must approve the facilities in which human healthcare products are produced. In addition, facilities are subject to ongoing inspections and minor changes in manufacturing processes may require additional regulatory approvals, either of which could cause us to incur significant additional costs and lose revenue. If we fail to sustain and further build our intellectual property rights, competitors will be able to take advantage of our research and development efforts to develop competing products. If we are not able to protect our proprietary technology, trade secrets, and know-how, our competitors may use our inventions to develop competing products. We currently have exclusive rights to at least 81 issued U.S. patents and 125 foreign patents. We also have rights to at least 78 pending U.S. patent applications and 259 pending foreign patent applications. However, our patents may not protect us against our competitors. Our patent positions, and those of other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, are generally uncertain and involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions. The standards which the United States Patent and Trademark 38 Table of Contents Office uses to grant patents, and the standards which courts use to interpret patents, are not always applied predictably or uniformly and can change, particularly as new technologies develop. Consequently, the level of protection, if any, that will be provided by our patents if we attempt to enforce them, and they are challenged, is uncertain. In addition, the type and extent of patent claims that will be issued to us in the future is uncertain. Any patents that are issued may not contain claims that permit us to stop competitors from using similar technology. In addition to our patented technology, we also rely on unpatented technology, trade secrets, and confidential information. We may not be able to effectively protect our rights to this technology or information. Other parties may independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques or otherwise gain access to or disclose our technology. We generally require each of our employees, consultants, collaborators, and certain contractors to execute a confidentiality agreement at the commencement of an employment, consulting, collaborative, or contractual relationship with us. However, these agreements may not provide effective protection of our technology or information or, in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure, they may not provide adequate remedies. We may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights, and we may be unable to protect our rights to, or use, our technology. If we choose to go to court to stop someone else from using the inventions claimed in our patents, that individual or company has the right to ask a court to rule that our patents are invalid and should not be enforced against that third party. These lawsuits are expensive and would consume time and other resources even if we were successful in stopping the infringement of our patents. In addition, there is a risk that the court will decide that our patents are not valid and that we do not have the right to stop the other party from using the inventions. There is also the risk that, even if the validity of our patents is upheld, the court will refuse to stop the other party on the grounds that such other party’s activities do not infringe our patents. We may not have rights under some patents or patent applications related to some of our existing and proposed products or processes. Third parties may own or control these patents and patent applications in the United States and abroad. Therefore, in some cases, such as those described below, in order to develop, use, manufacture, sell or import some of our existing or proposed products or develop or use some of our existing or proposed processes, we or our collaborators may choose to seek, or be required to seek, licenses under third-party patents issued in the United States and abroad, or those that might issue from United States and foreign patent applications. In such an event, we likely would be required to pay license fees or royalties or both to the licensor. If licenses are not available to us on acceptable terms, we or our collaborators may not be able to exploit these products or processes. Furthermore, a third party may claim that we are using inventions covered by such third party’s patents or other intellectual property rights and may go to court to stop us from engaging in our normal operations and activities. These lawsuits are expensive and would consume time and other resources. There is a risk that a court would decide that we are infringing the third party’s patents and would order us to stop the activities covered by the patents. In addition, there is a risk that a court will order us to pay the other party substantial damages for having violated the other party’s patents. The biotechnology industry has produced a proliferation of patents, and it is not always clear to industry participants, including us, which patents cover various types of products. The coverage of patents is subject to interpretation by the courts, and the interpretation is not always uniform. We 39 Table of Contents know of patents issued to third parties relating to heat shock proteins and alleviation of symptoms of cancer, respectively. We have reviewed these patents, and we believe, as to each claim in those patents, that we either do not infringe the claim or that the claim is invalid. Moreover, patent holders sometimes send communications to a number of companies in related fields suggesting possible infringement, and we, like a number of biotechnology companies, have received this type of communication, including with respect to the third-party patents mentioned above, as well as a communication alleging infringement of a patent relating to certain gel-fiberglass structures. If we are sued for patent infringement, we would need to demonstrate that our products either do not infringe the patent claims of the relevant patent and/or that the patent claims are invalid, which we may not be able to do. Proving invalidity, in particular, is difficult since it requires a showing of clear and convincing evidence to overcome the presumption of validity enjoyed by issued patents. Additionally, two of the patent applications licensed to us contain claims that are substantially the same as claims in a third-party patent relating to heat shock proteins. We have asked the United States Patent and Trademark Office to declare an interference with this third-party patent, U.S. Patent No. 6,713,608 which we believe is owned by the Science & Technology Corporation @ UNM (University of New Mexico). We believe that the invention of U.S. Patent No. 6,713,608 is the same as that of earlier-filed U.S. Patents No. 5,747,332, 6,066,716, and 6,433,141, which we believe are owned by the University of New Mexico and which were involved in a previous interference proceeding with one of those two applications. During that interference proceeding, we were awarded priority based upon our earlier effective filing date. Accordingly, we believe that the United States Patent and Trademark Office would declare an interference between our pending patent applications and this latest third-party patent and that the claims of U.S. Patent No. 6,713,608 would be deemed invalid. Although we believe that we should prevail against this third-party patent in an interference proceeding, there is no guarantee that that will be the outcome. Additionally, a third party has filed a notice of opposition to European patent EP 0750513 B1 which has claims relating to AG-702/707, to which we hold the exclusive license. We believe this patent claims valid subject matter and intend to defend the opposition. However, there is no guarantee that this patent will not be revoked or that we may not have to amend the claims. We may become involved in expensive patent litigation or other proceedings, which could result in our incurring substantial costs and expenses or substantial liability for damages or require us to stop our development and commercialization efforts. There has been substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. We may become a party to patent litigation or other proceedings regarding intellectual property rights. Interference proceedings before the United States Patent and Trademark Office may be necessary to establish which party was the first to invent a particular invention. The cost to us of any patent litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the cost of such litigation or proceedings more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater financial resources. If a patent litigation or other proceeding is resolved against us, we or our collaborators may be enjoined from using, manufacturing, selling or importing our products or processes without a license from the other party and we may be held liable for significant damages. We may not be able to obtain any required licenses on commercially acceptable terms or at all. 40 Table of Contents Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to enter into collaborations with other entities, obtain financing or compete in the marketplace. Patent litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time. Our patent protection for any compound or product that we seek to develop may be limited to a particular method of use or indication such that, if a third party were to obtain approval of the compound or product for use in another indication, we could be subject to competition arising from off-label use. Although we generally seek the broadest patent protection available for our proprietary compounds, we may not be able to obtain patent protection for the actual composition of matter of any particular compound and may be limited to protecting a new method of use for the compound or otherwise restricted in our ability to prevent others from exploiting the compound. If we are unable to obtain patent protection for the actual composition of matter of any compound that we seek to develop and commercialize and must rely on method of use patent coverage, we would likely be unable to prevent others from manufacturing or marketing that compound for any use that is not protected by our patent rights. If a third party were to receive marketing approval for the compound for another use, physicians might nevertheless prescribe it for indications that are not described in the product’s labeling or approved by the FDA or other regulatory authorities. Even if we have patent protection of the prescribed indication, as a practical matter, we likely would have little recourse as a result of this off-label use. In that event, our revenues from the commercialization of the compound would likely be adversely affected. If we fail to comply with our obligations in our intellectual property licenses with third parties, we could lose license rights that are important to our business. We are a party to various license agreements under which we receive the right to practice and use important third party patent rights. We may enter into additional licenses in the future. Our existing licenses impose, and we expect future licenses will impose, various diligence, milestone payment, royalty, insurance and other obligations on us. If we fail to comply with these obligations, the licensor may have the right to terminate the license, in which event we might not be able to market any product that is covered by the licensed patents. If we fail to maintain positive relationships with particular individuals, we may be unable to successfully develop our product candidates, conduct clinical trials, and obtain financing. Pramod K. Srivastava, Ph.D., a member of our Board of Directors, the Chairman of our Scientific and Medical Advisory Board, and a consultant to us, and Garo H. Armen, Ph.D., the Chairman of our Board of Directors and our Chief Executive Officer, who together founded Antigenics in 1994, have been, and continue to be, integral to building the Company and developing our technology. If either of these individuals decreases his contributions to the Company, our business could be adversely impacted. Dr. Srivastava is not an employee of Antigenics and has other professional commitments. We sponsor research in Dr. Srivastava’s laboratory at the University of Connecticut Health Center in exchange for the right to license discoveries made in that laboratory with our funding. Dr. Srivastava is a member of the faculty of the University of Connecticut School of Medicine. The regulations and policies of the University of Connecticut Health Center govern the relationship between a faculty member and a commercial enterprise. These regulations 41 Table of Contents and policies prohibit Dr. Srivastava from becoming our employee. Furthermore, the University of Connecticut may modify these regulations and policies in the future to further limit Dr. Srivastava’s relationship with us. Dr. Srivastava has a consulting agreement with Antigenics, which includes financial incentives for him to remain associated with us, but these may not prove sufficient to prevent him from severing his relationship with Antigenics, even during the time covered by the consulting agreement. In addition, this agreement does not restrict Dr. Srivastava’s ability to compete against us after his association with Antigenics is terminated. This agreement was to expire in March 2005 but was extended for an additional one-year period until March 2006. The Company expects to enter into an amended and restated consulting agreement with Dr. Srivastava prior to expiration of the existing consulting agreement. If Dr. Srivastava were to terminate his affiliation with us or devote less effort to advancing our technologies, we may not have access to future discoveries that could advance our technologies. Effective December 1, 2005, the Company entered into an employment agreement (the “Agreement”) with Dr. Armen. Subject to earlier termination as provided in the Agreement, the Agreement shall have an original term of one year and shall be automatically extended thereafter for successive terms of one year each, unless either party provides notice to the other at least ninety days prior to the expiration of the original or any extension term. We do not carry key employee insurance policies for Dr. Armen or any other employee. We also rely greatly on employing and retaining other highly trained and experienced senior management and scientific personnel. Since our manufacturing process is unique, our manufacturing and quality control personnel are very important. The competition for these and other qualified personnel in the biotechnology field is intense. If we are not able to attract and retain qualified scientific, technical, and managerial personnel, we probably will be unable to achieve our business objectives. We face litigation that could result in substantial damages and may divert management’s time and attention from our business. Antigenics, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Garo H. Armen, Ph.D., and two brokerage firms that served as underwriters in our initial public offering (“IPO”) have been named as defendants in a federal civil class action lawsuit. The suit alleges that the brokerage arms of the investment banking firms charged secret excessive commissions to certain of their customers in return for allocations of our IPO. The suit also alleges that shares of our stock were allocated to certain of the investment banking firms’ customers based upon agreements by such customers to purchase additional shares of our stock in the secondary market. To date, the plaintiffs have not asserted a specific amount of damages. We have submitted settlement papers with the Federal District Court for the Southern District of New York, which the court preliminarily approved. Regardless of the outcome, participation in a lawsuit diverts our management’s time and attention from our business and may result in requiring us to pay substantial damages. In addition, we are involved in other litigation and may become involved in additional litigation. Any such litigation could be expensive in terms of out-of-pocket costs and management time, and the outcome of any such litigation is uncertain. 42 Table of Contents If we fail to obtain adequate levels of reimbursement for our product candidates from third-party payers, the commercial potential of our product candidates will be significantly limited. Our profitability will depend on the extent to which government authorities, private health insurance providers, and other organizations provide reimbursement for the cost of our product candidates. Many patients will not be capable of paying for our product candidates by themselves. A primary trend in the United States health care industry is toward cost containment. Large private payers, managed care organizations, group purchasing organizations, and similar organizations are exerting increasing influence on decisions regarding the use of particular treatments. Furthermore, many third-party payers limit reimbursement for newly approved health care products. Cost containment measures may prevent us from becoming profitable. It is not clear that public and private insurance programs will determine that Oncophage or our other product candidates come within a category of items and services covered by their insurance plans. For example, although the federal Medicare program covers drugs and biological products, the program takes the position that the FDA’s treatment of a product as a drug or biologic does not require the Medicare program to treat the product in the same manner. Accordingly, it is possible that the Medicare program will not cover Oncophage or our other product candidates if they are approved for commercialization. It is also possible that there will be substantial delays in obtaining coverage of Oncophage or our other product candidates and that, if coverage is obtained, there may be significant restrictions on the circumstances in which there would be reimbursement. Where insurance coverage is available, there may be limits on the payment amount. Congress and the Medicare program periodically propose significant reductions in the Medicare reimbursement amounts for drugs and biologics. Such reductions could have a material adverse effect on sales of any of our product candidates that receive marketing approval. In December 2003, the President of the United States signed the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003. The future impact of this legislation on our product candidates is uncertain. Effective January 1, 2004, Medicare payments for many drugs administered in physician’s offices were reduced significantly. This provision impacts many drugs used in cancer treatment by oncologists and urologists. The payment methodology changes in future years, and it is unclear how the payment methodology will impact reimbursement for Oncophage, if it receives regulatory approval, and incentives for physicians to recommend Oncophage relative to alternative therapies. Product liability and other claims against us may reduce demand for our products or result in substantial damages. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to testing our product candidates in human clinical trials and will face even greater risks if we sell our product candidates commercially. An individual may bring a product liability claim against us if one of our product candidates causes, or merely appears to have caused, an injury. Product liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for our product candidates; • injury to our reputation; • withdrawal of clinical trial volunteers; • costs of related litigation; and • substantial monetary awards to plaintiffs. 43 Table of Contents We manufacture Oncophage and AG-858 from a patient’s cancer cells, and a medical professional must inject Oncophage or AG-858 into the patient from which it was manufactured. A patient may sue us if we, a hospital, or a shipping company fails to deliver the removed cancer tissue or that patient’s Oncophage or AG-858. We anticipate that the logistics of shipping will become more complex if the number of patients we treat increases, and it is possible that all shipments will not be made without incident. In addition, administration of Oncophage or AG-858 at a hospital poses risk of delivery to the wrong patient. Currently, we do not have insurance that covers loss of or damage to Oncophage or AG-858, and we do not know whether insurance will be available to us at a reasonable price or at all. We have limited product liability coverage for clinical research use of product candidates. Our product liability policy provides $10 million aggregate coverage and $10 million per occurrence. This limited insurance coverage may be insufficient to fully cover us for future claims. We may incur significant costs complying with environmental laws and regulations. We use hazardous, infectious, and radioactive materials in our operations, which have the potential of being harmful to human health and safety or the environment. We store these hazardous (flammable, corrosive, toxic), infectious, and radioactive materials, and various wastes resulting from their use, at our facilities pending use and ultimate disposal. We are subject to a variety of federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing use, generation, storage, handling, and disposal of these materials. We may incur significant costs complying with both current and future environmental health and safety laws and regulations. In particular, we are subject to regulation by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Drug Enforcement Agency, the Department of Transportation, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the National Institutes of Health, the International Air Transportation Association, and various state and local agencies. At any time, one or more of the aforementioned agencies could adopt regulations that may affect our operations. We are also subject to regulation under the Toxic Substances Control Act and the Resource Conservation Development programs. Although we believe that our current procedures and programs for handling, storage, and disposal of these materials comply with federal, state, and local laws and regulations, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidents involving contamination from these materials. Although we have limited pollution liability coverage ($2 million) and a workers’ compensation liability policy, in the event of an accident or accidental release, we could be held liable for resulting damages, which could be substantially in excess of any available insurance coverage and could substantially disrupt our business. Our competitors in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries may have superior products, manufacturing capability, or marketing expertise. Our business may fail because we face intense competition from major pharmaceutical companies and specialized biotechnology companies engaged in the development of product candidates and other therapeutic products, including heat shock proteins directed at cancer, infectious diseases, and autoimmune disorders. Several of these companies have products that utilize similar technologies and/or personalized medicine techniques, such as Dendreon’s Sipuleucel-T, with Fast Track designation and currently in Phase 3 trials for prostate cancer, and Lapuleucel-T in Phase 1 trials for ovarian, colorectal and breast cancer, Stressgen’s HspE7 currently in or completed Phase 2 trials in HPV-related diseases, such as internal genital warts, recurrent respiratory papillomatosis and cervical dysplasia, AVAX’s AC Vaccine therapeutic platform vaccines in clinical 44 Table of Contents trials for melanoma and non small-cell lung cancer and approved for sale in Switzerland for melanoma, Intracel’s OncoVax, currently approved for administration in the Netherlands, Switzerland and Israel and in a Phase 3 trial in the U.S. for colon cancer, Liponova’s Reniale, completed Phase 3 trials for renal cell carcinoma, Vical’s Allovectin with a special protocol assessment for a Phase 3 trial for metastatic melanoma, Favrille’s FavID currently in a Phase 3 trial for non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma (NHL), Accentia’s BiovaxID currently in a Phase 3 trial for NHL, Genitope’s MyVax in a Phase 3 trial for NHL, and Cell Genesys’ GVAX vaccines currently in trials for prostate (Phase 3), AML (Phase 1), pancreas (Phase 2), lung cancer (Phase 2), and myeloma (Phase 1). Patents have been issued in both the U.S. and Europe related to Stressgen’s heat shock protein technology. In particular, U.S. patents 6,797,491, 6,657,055, 6,524,825, 6,495,347, 6,338,952 and 6,335,183; and European patents EP700445 and EP1002110 are issued. Additionally, many of our competitors, including large pharmaceutical companies, have greater financial and human resources and more experience than we do. Our competitors may: • commercialize their product candidates sooner than we commercialize our own; • develop safer or more effective therapeutic drugs or preventive vaccines and other therapeutic products; • implement more effective approaches to sales and marketing; • establish superior intellectual property positions; or • discover technologies that may result in medical insights or breakthroughs, which render our drugs or vaccines obsolete, possibly before they generate any revenue. More specifically, if we receive regulatory approvals, some of our product candidates will compete with FDA-approved therapies such as interleukin-2 and interferon-alpha for renal cell carcinoma and melanoma, which have generated substantial sales over a number of years. In addition, prior to regulatory approval, we may compete for access to patients with other products in clinical development, with products approved for use in the indications we are studying, or with off-label use of products in the indications we are studying. We anticipate that we will face increased competition in the future as new companies enter markets we seek to address and scientific developments surrounding immunotherapy and other traditional cancer therapies continue to accelerate. For example, with the recent approval by the FDA of sorafenib tablets and sunitinib for the treatment of patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma, or kidney cancer, fewer patients may be available for our clinical trials. Risks Related to our Common Stock Our officers and directors may be able to block proposals for a change in control. Antigenics Holdings L.L.C. is a holding company that owns shares of our common stock and, as of December 31, 2005, Antigenics Holdings L.L.C. controlled approximately 24% of our outstanding common stock. Due to this concentration of ownership, Antigenics Holdings L.L.C. may be able to prevail on all matters requiring a stockholder vote, including: • the election of directors; • the amendment of our organizational documents; or • the approval of a merger, sale of assets, or other major corporate transaction. 45 Table of Contents Certain of our directors and officers, including our chief executive officer, directly and indirectly own approximately 70% of Antigenics Holdings L.L.C. and, if they elect to act together, can control Antigenics Holdings L.L.C. In addition, several of our directors and officers directly and indirectly own approximately 4% of our outstanding common stock. A single, otherwise unaffiliated, stockholder holds a substantial percentage of our outstanding capital stock. According to publicly filed documents, Mr. Brad M. Kelley beneficially owns 5,546,240 shares of our outstanding common stock and 31,620 shares of our series A convertible preferred stock. The shares of preferred stock are currently convertible at any time into 2,000,000 shares of common stock at an initial conversion price of $15.81, are non-voting, and carry a 2.5% annual dividend yield. If Mr. Kelley had converted all of the shares of preferred stock on December 31, 2005, he would have held approximately 16% of our outstanding common stock. We currently have a right of first refusal agreement with Mr. Kelley that provides us with limited rights to purchase certain of Mr. Kelley’s shares if he proposes to sell them to a third party. Mr. Kelley’s substantial ownership position provides him with the ability to substantially influence the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval. Furthermore, collectively, Mr. Kelley and Antigenics Holdings L.L.C. control approximately 37% of our outstanding common stock as of April 6, 2005, providing substantial ability, if they vote in the same manner, to determine the outcome of matters submitted to a stockholder vote. If Mr. Kelley were to convert all of his preferred stock into common stock, the combined percentage would increase to 39%. Additional purchases of our common stock by Mr. Kelley also would increase both his own percentage of outstanding voting rights and the percentage combined with Antigenics Holdings L.L.C. (Mr. Kelley’s shares of preferred stock do not carry voting rights; the common stock issuable upon conversion, however, carries the same voting rights as other shares of common stock.) Provisions in our organizational documents could prevent or frustrate attempts by stockholders to replace our current management. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without consent of our Board of Directors. Our certificate of incorporation provides for a staggered board and removal of directors only for cause. Accordingly, stockholders may elect only a minority of our board at any annual meeting, which may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in management. In addition, under our certificate of incorporation, our Board of Directors may issue additional shares of preferred stock and determine the terms of those shares of stock without any further action by our stockholders. Our issuance of additional preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock and thereby effect a change in the composition of our Board of Directors. Our certificate of incorporation also provides that our stockholders may not take action by written consent. Our bylaws require advance notice of stockholder proposals and director nominations and permit only our President or a majority of the Board of Directors to call a special stockholder meeting. These provisions may have the effect of preventing or hindering attempts by our stockholders to replace our current management. In addition, Delaware law prohibits a corporation from engaging in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock until the holder has held the stock for three years unless, among other possibilities, the Board of Directors approves the transaction. Our Board of Directors may use this provision to prevent changes in our management. Also, under applicable Delaware law, our Board of Directors may adopt additional anti-takeover measures in the future. 46 Table of Contents Our stock has low trading volume and its public trading price has been volatile. Between our initial public offering on February 4, 2000 and December 31, 2005 and for the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, the closing price of our common stock has fluctuated between $4.72 and $52.63 per share and $4.76 and $10.00 per share, respectively, with an average daily trading volume for the year ended December 31, 2005 of approximately 350,000 shares. The market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are often unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. In addition to general market volatility, many factors may have a significant adverse effect on the market price of our stock, including: • continuing operating losses, which we expect over the next several years as we continue our clinical trials; • announcements of decisions made by public officials; • results of our preclinical and clinical trials; • announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by our competitors; • developments concerning proprietary rights, including patent and litigation matters; • publicity regarding actual or potential results with respect to products under development by us or by our competitors; • regulatory developments; and • quarterly fluctuations in our financial results. The sale of a significant number of shares could cause the market price of our stock to decline. The sale by us or the resale by stockholders of a significant number of shares of our common stock could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately 45,591,000 shares of common stock outstanding. All of these shares are eligible for sale on the NASDAQ National Market, although certain of the shares are subject to sales volume and other limitations. We have filed registration statements to permit the sale of 10,436,831 shares of common stock under our equity incentive plan and certain equity plans that we assumed in the acquisitions of Aquila Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. and Aronex Pharmaceuticals, Inc. We have also filed a registration statement to permit the sale of 300,000 shares of common stock under our employee stock purchase plan. We have also filed a registration statement to permit the sale of 100,000 shares of common stock under our directors’ deferred compensation plan. As of December 31, 2005, options to purchase approximately 6,005,000 shares of our common stock with a weighted average exercise price per share of $8.75 were outstanding. Many of these options are subject to vesting that generally occurs over a period of up to five years following the date of grant. As of December 31, 2005, warrants to purchase approximately 8,910 shares of our common stock with a weighted average exercise price per share of $54.71 were outstanding. The market price of our common stock may decrease based on the expectation of such sales. On August 12, 2004, we filed a registration statement with respect to an aggregate of $100 million of our common stock, preferred stock, and debt. That registration statement has become effective, and we may offer and sell any of those securities from time to time. On May 24, 2005, we filed a registration statement with respect to an aggregate of $50 million of 5.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2025 and 4,645,115 shares of our common stock that would be issued upon conversion of the notes, subject to adjustment for any stock split, stock dividend, 47 Table of Contents or any other event or transaction that results in an increase in the number of shares issuable upon conversion of the notes. That registration statement has become effective, and those notes and shares may be offered and sold from time to time by the selling security holders listed in the related prospectus. The market price of our common stock may decrease based on investor expectations that we will issue a substantial number of shares of common stock or securities convertible into common stock at low prices. Because we are a relatively small public company, we have been disproportionately negatively impacted by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related regulations, which have increased our costs and required additional management resources. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which became law in July 2002, has required changes in some of our corporate governance, securities disclosure, and compliance practices. In response to the requirements of that Act, the SEC and the NASDAQ have promulgated new rules and listing standards covering a variety of subjects. Compliance with these new rules and listing standards significantly increased our legal, financial, and accounting costs, which we expect to increase as we expand our operations. In addition, the requirements have taxed a significant amount of management’s and the Board of Directors’ time and resources. Likewise, these developments have made it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our Board of Directors, particularly independent directors, or qualified executive officers. Because we are a relatively small public company, we expect to be disproportionately negatively impacted by these changes in securities laws and regulations, which have increased our costs and required additional management resources. Our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15 of the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of our financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect all deficiencies or weaknesses in our financial reporting. While our management has concluded in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 that there were no material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, our procedures are subject to the risk that our controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or as a result of a deterioration in compliance with such procedures. No assurance is given that our procedures and processes for detecting weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will be effective. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have received no written comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding our periodic or current reports that (1) we believe are material, (2) were issued not less than 180 days before the end of our 2005 fiscal year, and (3) remain unresolved. 