D. Risk Factors Declines in economic conditions in Kubota’s major markets, including private-sector capital expenditure, construction investment, and domestic public investment, may adversely impact the results of operations of the Company. Industrial and capital goods make up a substantial portion of the Company’s products. Accordingly, sales of the Company’s products may be sensitive to declines in general economic conditions, including private-sector capital expenditure, construction investment, and domestic public investment. In addition, governmental agricultural policies, such as a reduction in rice acreage or a change in agricultural law, may affect domestic sales of agriculture-related products. In overseas markets, especially those of North America and Europe, sales of the Company’s products, such as utility/compact tractors, may also be adversely affected by declines in general economic conditions, including private consumption and residential construction investment in those regions. Fluctuations of foreign exchange rates, including a stronger yen, may reduce net sales and adversely affect the results of operations of the Company. The Company has overseas sales and manufacturing subsidiaries. The financial results of each overseas subsidiary are consolidated into the results of the parent company after translation into Japanese yen. In addition, the transactions between the parent company and overseas subsidiaries or customers are generally denominated in the local currencies. The payments received in local currencies on such transactions are converted to Japanese yen. As a result, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates will affect the consolidated financial results. The Company is subject to the risks of international operations. Some of the Company’s businesses involve substantial overseas operations. Accordingly, the Company is subject to a number of risks inherent in doing business in those markets. Such risks may affect sales and profitability of the Company or they may hinder growth of the Company in specific countries. The following risks are important concerns for the Company: • Unexpected changes in international, or in an individual country’s, tax regulations • Unexpected legal or regulatory changes in a country • Difficulties in retaining qualified personnel • Underqualified technological skills or instability between management and employee unions in developing countries • Political instability in those countries The major markets with the above risks are markets in the United States, the EU, and Asian countries. Among the United States, the EU, and Asian countries, which are major markets for the Company, risks in Asian countries seem to be relatively higher than those of other regions. 2 Table of Contents The Company utilizes estimates on some accounts in the consolidated financial statements, which may require additional accruals due to unanticipated changes in the basis of assumptions. The Company appropriately records its employee benefit obligations, valuation of inventories, valuation allowances for deferred tax assets, probability of collection of notes and accounts receivable, impairment losses on long-lived assets, and revenue recognition for long-term contracts in the consolidated financial statements based on the information that it has available. However, these are based on various assumptions about future economic results. If actual results differ from any of these assumptions, unanticipated additional accruals may be required. Strategic alliances, mergers, and acquisitions may not generate successful results as planned. The Company expects to use strategic alliances, mergers, and acquisitions to seek further growth. The success of these activities depends on such factors as the Company’s business environment, the ability of its business counterparts, and whether the Company and its counterparts share common goals. Therefore, if these activities are not successful and returns on related investments are lower than expected, the Company may lose competitiveness in relevant markets. Consequently, the Company’s profitability may deteriorate. The Company may not be able to successfully create new businesses or businesses complementary to the current ones. As part of its structural renovation, the Company is attempting to cultivate new businesses or businesses that are complementary to the current ones. However, in those markets, there are numerous competitors, and competition will be very harsh. If the Company fails to develop the required personnel or abilities to produce and market appropriate products, subsequent impairment charges may be taken, or there may be a negative impact on the Company’s financial position. Impairment losses on investments in marketable securities may occur as a result of stock market fluctuations. As of March 31, 2006, the Company owns securities with a fair value of approximately ¥225.4 billion. Most of these securities are equity securities, and, accordingly, depending on stock market fluctuations, unrealized and realized losses may occur. In each of its businesses, Kubota is subject to intensifying competitive pressures. The Company must compete successfully to maintain sales and profits. The Company is exposed to severe competition in each of its businesses. Unless the Company surpasses other companies in such areas as terms of trade, R&D, and quality, sales and/or net income may decrease in the future. The Company may be required to incur significant financial expenses if its products and services have serious defects. If the Company’s products and services have serious defects, the Company may incur a significant liability for reparation payments. Such payment and other associated expenses may have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated results of operations and financial position. Should such events occur, the Company may lose the trust of the public and suffer a reduction in its brand value, which may result in decreased sales and demand for its products. The Company is subject to various environmental laws and regulations, and may be required to incur considerable expenses in order to comply with such laws and regulations. The Company is subject to various environmental laws and regulations that apply to its products and activities. If these environmental laws and regulations, such as those that impose carbon dioxide emission controls, emission controls, and usage restrictions for certain materials which are used in the Company’s products, are strengthened or newly established in jurisdictions in which the Company conducts its businesses, the Company may be required to incur considerable expenses in order to comply with such laws and regulations. Such expenses may have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated results of operations and financial position. To the extent that the Company determines that it is not economical to continue to comply with such laws and regulations, the Company may have to curtail or discontinue its activities in the affected business areas. 3 Table of Contents The Company may be required to incur significant financial expenses in connection with environmental damage it may cause in its activities. The Company may cause environmental pollution while conducting its activities, such as the release of hazardous materials and causing air pollution, water pollution, and/or ground pollution. In such an event, the Company may have to implement corrective actions to resolve any problem associated with such hazardous materials or pollution with substantial expense and may face litigation regarding these issues. These factors may have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated results of operations and financial position. The Company may be required to incur significant expenses relevant to asbestos-related issues. The Company previously manufactured products containing asbestos from 1954 to 2001. The Company may be required to incur various expenses, including expenditures for environmental remediation payments or payments to the individual concerned or face lawsuits related to the asbestos-related health hazards of employees (including former employees) who engaged in the manufacturing of products containing asbestos, and residents who lived near the Company’s factory at which these products were manufactured. If such expenses become significant or any lawsuits result in judgments unfavorable to the Company, there may be a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated results of operations, financial position, and its liquidity. The Company may experience a material effect on its consolidated results of operations and financial position if it faces issues related to compliance. The Company declared its intention to conduct its corporate activities based on compliance with legal regulations and ethical principles, and to exert efforts to make all management and staff of the Company not to act in violation of various legal regulations, ethical standards, or internal regulations throughout all Group companies. However, in the event that the Company is confronted with compliance issues arising from such activities, there is a possibility that it may undergo disciplinary action by government ministries supervising its activities, may be subjected to lawsuits, and may suffer a loss of public confidence that could have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated results of operations and financial position. Damage by Natural Disasters Japan is a country with frequent earthquakes. In case of a strong earthquake or related tidal wave, the Company may be affected in the operation of its manufacturing, logistics, and sales activities, and may lose sales and profits depending on the severity of the earthquake or tidal wave. Japan also is hit by typhoons very frequently. In case major plants are struck by a large and powerful typhoon, the Company’s operations may suffer great losses. In each business segment mentioned below, Kubota is subject to risks inherent to those businesses and markets. Internal Combustion Engine and Machinery Segment The domestic business condition for Farm Equipment and Machinery remains difficult. In the business of farm equipment, for example, national agricultural policies on supporting agricultural management by community, which intends to make efficient use of agricultural resources such as farming land, agricultural machinery and facilities, may lead farmers to refrain from purchasing new equipment. Under such conditions, in order to compete with other companies, the Company must maintain marketing channels, develop new products that reflect consumers’ exact demands, and intensify appropriate after-sales services. To accomplish these objectives, substantial personnel and financing resources are required. At the same time, the Company is also subject to severe competition in the United States. The pressures of reducing prices or shortening lead times are making business conditions more difficult. Consequently, the Company must take all possible steps to overcome the handicap of exporting products from Japan. Specifically, it is very important for the Company to promote its retail sales by offering appropriate incentives to its dealers, and to introduce innovative products that address consumers’ needs, in advance of its competitors. The Company must continue to promote these operations and to compete with its competitors in the U.S. in order to develop the business. Otherwise, the decrease in sales may have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated results of operations and financial position. 4 Table of Contents Pipes, Valves, and Industrial Castings Segment The business of Pipes and Valves is basically dependent on public sector investments. Therefore, sales and profitability of this segment may be adversely affected by reductions in public investments by national or local governments. In the business of ductile iron pipes and industrial casting, because of the relatively severe working environment, including the need to handle molten pig iron and steel scraps, it might be difficult to hire and retain qualified new employees. If the Company is not able to hire and retain qualified employees, nor to automate these processes, the Company may face difficulties in continuing its business. In addition, increasing environmental restrictions on such items as noise, air pollution or bad smells caused by factories may require additional investments to cope with such restrictions and may reduce profitability as a result of an increase in production costs. Certain of the Company’s competitors are located in China or India where personnel costs are extremely low compared with Japan. Accordingly, the Company must continue to reduce production costs. As for export of its products, negative factors such as stronger yen, increased competition in international competitive bidding, increasing cost of freight and insurance, may impair profitability of exportation. Reductions in private capital expenditure or residential construction investment may adversely impact the business, financial condition or results of the Company. Environmental Engineering Segment In the business of Environmental Engineering, a large portion of the demand depends on public sector investments. If the Company is unable to manage adverse developments such as a decrease in demand due to a reduction in public investments, intensifying competition owing to an increase in competitors, or the need to maintain high quality R&D personnel to develop new technologies, the Company’s financial condition or results may be adversely affected. Furthermore, demands on product specification vary from customer to customer, which raise product cost. Other Segment Other segment consists of primarily vending machines, electronic-equipped machinery, air-conditioning equipment, septic tanks, condominiums, construction, and other equipments services. While the Company encounters market competition for these products, declining general economic conditions, including reduction in private capital expenditures, construction investment and public investment may also adversely affect the business and financial results of this segment. Cautionary Statements with Respect to Forward-Looking Statements Certain sections of this annual report on Form 20-F may contain forward-looking statements that are based on management’s expectations, estimates, projections and assumptions. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks and uncertainties, which are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual future results may differ materially from what is forecast in forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors, including, without limitation: general economic conditions in the Company’s markets, particularly government agricultural policies, levels of capital expenditures, both in public and private sectors, foreign currency exchange rates, continued competitive pricing pressures in the marketplace, as well as the Company’s ability to continue to gain acceptance of its products. 5 Table of Contents 