Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following information in addition to other information in this report before you decide to purchase our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently deem to be material and that we believe are specific to our company and our industry. In addition to these risks, our business may be subject to risks currently unknown to us. If any of these or other risks actually occur, our business may be adversely affected, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment in Websense. We have experienced declining growth rates, particularly for Web filtering sales to large enterprises in North America and Western Europe, and therefore need to increase our sales to small and medium sized business customers. During the first half of 2006, we were unable to sustain our growth rates for sales of Web filtering products to large enterprises, particularly for new sales to this market segment. During the second half of 2006, we expanded our focus on increasing sales to small and medium sized business (SMB) customers in North America and Western Europe while sales growth rates in the large enterprise market segment slowed down. Our growth plans for new sales in North America and Western Europe in 2007 are largely dependent on our ability to increase sales in the SMB space. To be successful, we must develop products specifically targeted at the SMB market. We are scheduled to release the first such product in July 2007. We will also need to increase our reliance on our new two-tier distribution channel in North America and establish similar two-tier distribution arrangements in Western Europe that target SMB customers. Numerous competitors target the SMB space for Web filtering sales, many of whom are different competitors from our primary competitors in the large enterprise space. If we cannot develop new products for the SMB market or compete effectively for volume business through our existing or a newly established two-tier distribution model, our financial results will be negatively affected. 15 We are moving towards a two-tier distribution channel in North America which is intended to increase the quantity of our indirect sales. As we move toward a two-tier indirect sales model in North America, our revenue will be derived almost entirely from sales through indirect channels, including value-added resellers, distributors that sell our products to end-users, providers of managed Internet services and other resellers. Currently, Ingram Micro is our only broad-line distributor in North America, so the success of our North American sales efforts is reliant on Ingram Micro’s success in selling our products to their reseller network. Our indirect sales model involves a number of additional risks, including: · our resellers and distributors, including Ingram Micro, are not subject to minimum sales requirements or any obligation to market our products to their customers; · we cannot control the level of effort our resellers and distributors expend or the extent to which any of them will be successful in marketing and selling our products; · we cannot assure that our channel partners will market and sell our new product offerings such as our security-oriented offerings and our new information leak prevention offerings; · our reseller and distributor agreements are generally nonexclusive and may be terminated at any time without cause; and · our resellers and distributors frequently market and distribute competing products and may, from time to time, place greater emphasis on the sale of these products due to pricing, promotions, and other terms offered by our competitors. Our ability to meaningfully increase the amount of our products sold through our sales channels also depends on our ability to adequately and efficiently support these channel partners with, among other things, appropriate financial incentives to encourage pre-sales investment and sales tools, such as sales training, technical training and product collateral needed to support their customers and prospects. Additionally, we are continually evaluating the changes to our internal ordering and partner management systems in order to effectively execute our new two-tier distribution strategy. Any failure to properly and efficiently support our sales channels will result in lost sales opportunities. Our future success depends on our ability to sell new, renewal and upgraded Web filtering and Web security subscriptions. Substantially all of our revenue in 2006 was derived from new and renewal subscriptions to our Web filtering and Web security products. We expect that a significant majority of our sales in 2007 will continue to be derived from our Web filtering and security products and that sales of our newly acquired information leak prevention products and other products under development will comprise only a very small portion of our overall sales in 2007. If our Web filtering and security products fail to meet the needs of our existing and target customers, or if they do not compare favorably in price, features and performance to competing products, our operating results and our business will be significantly impaired. If we cannot sufficiently increase our customer base with the addition of new customers, particularly in the SMB space, and increase seats under subscriptions from existing customers, we will not be able to grow our business to meet expectations. Subscriptions for our Web filtering and security products typically have durations of 12, 24 or 36 months. Our customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions upon expiration. Our revenue also depends upon maintaining a high rate of sales of renewal subscriptions and in selling further subscriptions to existing customers in order to add additional seats or product offerings within their respective organizations. This may require increasingly costly sales efforts targeting senior management and other management personnel associated with our customers’ Internet and security infrastructure. We may not be able to maintain or continue to generate increasing revenue from existing customers. 16 Failure of our security products, including our information leak prevention products, to achieve more widespread market acceptance will seriously harm our business. Our future financial performance depends on our ability to diversify our offerings by successfully developing, introducing and gaining customer acceptance of our new products and services, particularly our security offerings. On January 8, 2007, we acquired PortAuthority Technologies, Inc., and as a result of that acquisition, we now sell information leak prevention products in the content security market. We also sell our WebBlazer proxy product and other security offerings with our traditional Web filtering products. We may not be successful in achieving market acceptance of these or any new products that we develop. Moreover, our recent increased emphasis on the development, marketing and sale of our security offerings and information leak prevention products could distract us from sales of our core Web filtering and Web security offerings, negatively impacting our overall sales. Any failure or delay in diversifying our existing offerings, or diversification at the detriment to our core Web filtering and Web security offerings, could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face increasing competition from much larger software and hardware companies, which places pressure on our pricing and which could prevent us from increasing revenue or maintaining profitability. In addition, as we increase our emphasis on our security-oriented products, we face competition from better-established security companies that have significantly greater resources. The market for our products is intensely competitive and is likely to become even more so in the future, within both the Web filtering market as well as the Web security market. Our current principal Web filtering competitors frequently offer their products at a significantly lower price than our products, which has resulted in pricing pressures on sales of our product and potentially could result in the commoditization of Web filtering and Web security products. We also face current and potential competition from vendors of Internet servers, operating systems and networking hardware, many of which now, or may in the future, develop and/or bundle Web filtering or other competitive products with their products. Increased competition may cause price reductions or a loss of market share, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to maintain the current pricing on sales of our products or increase our pricing in the future, our profitability could be negatively impacted. Even if our products provide greater functionality and are more effective than certain other competitive products, potential customers might accept this limited functionality in lieu of purchasing our products. In addition, our own indirect sales channels may decide to develop or sell competing products instead of our products. Pricing pressures and increased competition generally could result in reduced sales, reduced margins or the failure of our products to achieve or maintain more widespread market acceptance, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our current principal competitors include: · companies offering Web security solutions, such as Microsoft, Symantec, McAfee, Juniper Networks, Message Labs and Trend Micro; · companies offering Web filtering products, such as SurfControl, Secure Computing, Symantec, Digital Arts, Computer Associates, Microsoft, St. Bernard Software, Finjan, Barracuda, ScanSafe, Cisco Systems and Trend Micro; · companies integrating Web filtering into specialized security appliances, such as 8e6 Technologies, Blue Coat Systems, Cisco Systems, McAfee and SonicWALL; · companies offering information leak protection solutions, such as Vontu, Verdasys, Vericept, Tablus, Symantec, Secure Computing, Reconnex, Provilla, Proofpoint, Palisade Systems, Orchstria, Oakley Networks, McAfee, Intrusion, Fidelis, Checkpoint and Code Green Networks; 17 · companies offering desktop security solutions such as Check Point Software, Cisco Systems, McAfee, Microsoft and Symantec; and · companies offering proxy based solutions such as BlueCoat Systems and Cisco Systems. As we develop and market our products with an increasing security-oriented emphasis, we also face increasing competition from security solutions providers. Many of our competitors within the Web security market, such as Symantec Corporation, McAfee, Inc., Trend Micro, Cisco Systems and Microsoft Corporation enjoy substantial competitive advantages, including: · greater name recognition and larger marketing budgets and resources; · established marketing relationships and access to larger customer bases; and · substantially greater financial, technical and other resources. As a result, we may be unable to gain sufficient traction as a provider of Web security solutions, and our competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or devote greater resources to the development, marketing, promotion and sale of their products than we can. Current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase the functionality and market acceptance of their products. In addition, our competitors may be able to replicate our products, make more attractive offers to existing and potential employees and strategic partners, develop new products or enhance existing products and services more quickly. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. In addition, we also expect that competition will increase as a result of industry consolidation. For all of the foregoing reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully against our current and future competitors. Our international operations involve risks that could increase our expenses, adversely affect our operating results, and require increased time and attention of our management. We have significant operations outside of the United States, including research and development, sales and customer support. We recently established engineering operations in Beijing, China, and acquired PortAuthority Technologies, Inc., whose engineering efforts are based in Israel. We intend to maintain our principal engineering efforts for our information leak prevention products in Israel. We plan to continue to expand our international operations, but such expansion is contingent upon the financial performance of our existing international operations as well as our identification of growth opportunities. Our international operations are subject to risks in addition to those faced by our domestic operations, including: · difficulties associated with managing a distributed organization located on multiple continents in greatly varying time zones; · potential loss of proprietary information due to misappropriation or laws that may be less protective of our intellectual property rights; · requirements of foreign laws and other governmental controls, including trade and labor restrictions and related laws that reduce the flexibility of our business operations; · political unrest, war or terrorism, particularly in areas in which we have facilities; · difficulties in staffing, managing, and operating our international operations, including difficulties related to administering our stock plans in some foreign countries; 18 · difficulties in coordinating the activities of our geographically dispersed and culturally diverse operations; · seasonal reductions in business activity in the summer months in Europe and in other periods in other countries; · restrictions on our ability to repatriate cash from our international subsidiaries or to exchange cash in international subsidiaries into cash available for use in the United States; and · costs and delays associated with developing software in multiple languages. All of our foreign subsidiaries’ operating expenses are incurred in foreign currencies. As a result, should the dollar weaken, our foreign operating expenses would increase. Should foreign currency exchange rates fluctuate, our earnings and net cash flows from international operations may be adversely affected, especially if international sales continue to grow as a percentage of our total sales. Sales to customers outside the United States have accounted for a significant portion of our revenue, which exposes us to risks inherent in international sales. We market and sell our products outside the United States through value-added resellers, distributors and other resellers. International sales represented approximately 36% of our total revenue generated during our fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 compared with 33% of our total revenue during our fiscal year ended December 31, 2005. As a key component of our business strategy to generate new business sales, we intend to expand our international sales, but success cannot be assured. In addition to the risks associated with our domestic sales, our international sales are subject to the following risks: · our ability to adapt to sales and marketing practices and customer requirements in different cultures; · our ability to successfully localize software products for a significant number of international markets; · the significant presence of some of our competitors in some international markets; · laws and business practices favoring local competitors; · dependence on foreign distributors and their sales channels; · longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; · compliance with multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations, including tax laws and regulations and consumer protection and privacy laws; and · regional economic and political conditions. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our international sales. Any reduction in international sales, or our failure to further develop our international distribution channels, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our international revenue is currently primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. As a result, fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies may make our products more expensive for international customers, which could harm our business. We currently bill certain international customers in Euros. This may increase our risks associated with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates since we cannot be assured of receiving the same U.S. dollar equivalent as when we bill exclusively in U.S. dollars. We engage in currency hedging activities with the intent of limiting the risk of exchange rate fluctuation. Our hedging activities also involve inherent risks that could result in an unforeseen loss. If we fail to properly forecast rate fluctuations these activities could have a negative impact. 19 Acquired companies or technologies can be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and adversely affect our operating results. In January 2007, we acquired PortAuthority Technologies, Inc., and we may acquire additional companies, services and technologies in the future as part of our efforts to expand and diversify our business. Although we review the records of companies or businesses we are interested in acquiring, even an in-depth review may not reveal existing or potential problems or permit us to become familiar enough with a business to assess fully its capabilities and deficiencies. Integration of acquired companies may disrupt or slow the momentum of the activities of our business. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: · difficulties in integrating operations, technologies, services and personnel of the acquired company; · diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; · risk of entering new markets; · potential loss of key employees of the acquired company; · integrating personnel with diverse business and cultural backgrounds; · preserving the development, distribution, marketing and other important relationships of the companies; · assumption of liabilities of the acquired company, including debt and litigation; and · inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition costs. Acquisitions may also cause us to: · issue equity securities that would dilute our current stockholders’ percentage ownership; · assume certain liabilities; · incur additional debt; · make large and immediate one-time write-offs and restructuring and other related expenses; · become subject to intellectual property or other litigation; and · create goodwill or other intangible assets that could result in significant amortization expense. As a result, if we fail to properly evaluate, execute and integrate acquisitions such as PortAuthority, our business and prospects may be seriously harmed. We may not be able to develop acceptable new products or enhancements to our existing products at a rate required by our rapidly changing market. Our future success depends on our ability to develop new products or enhancements to our existing products that keep pace with rapid technological developments and that address the changing needs of our customers. Although our products are designed to operate with a variety of network hardware and software platforms, we will need to continuously modify and enhance our products to keep pace with changes in Internet-related hardware, software, communication, browser and database technologies. We may not be successful in either developing such products or introducing them to the market in a timely fashion. In addition, uncertainties about the timing and nature of new network platforms or technologies, or modifications to existing platforms or technology could increase our research and development expenses. The failure of our products to operate effectively with the existing and future network platforms 20 and technologies will limit or reduce the market for our products, result in customer dissatisfaction and seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may spend significant time and money on research and development to design and develop our information leak prevention products. If these products fail to achieve broad market acceptance in our target markets, we may be unable to generate significant revenue from our research and development efforts. Moreover, even if we are able to develop information prevention products, they may not be accepted in our target markets. As a result, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely impacted. Our products may fail to keep pace with the rapid growth and technological change of the Internet in accordance with our customers’ expectations. The ongoing evolution of the Internet and computing environments will require us to continually improve the functionality, features and reliability of our databases. Because our products primarily manage access to URLs and software applications included in our databases, if our databases do not contain a meaningful portion of relevant content, the effectiveness of our Web filtering products will be significantly diminished. Any failure of our databases to keep pace with the rapid growth and technological change of the Internet, such as the increasing amount of multimedia content on the Internet that is not easily classified, will impair the market acceptance of our products. We rely upon a combination of automated filtering technology and human review to categorize URLs and software applications in our proprietary databases. Our customers may not agree with our determinations that particular URLs and software applications should be included or not included in specific categories of our databases. In addition, it is possible that our filtering processes may place objectionable or security risk material in categories that are generally unrestricted by our users’ Internet and computer access policies, which could result in such material not being blocked from the network. Any miscategorization could result in customer dissatisfaction and harm our reputation. Any failure to effectively categorize and filter URLs and software applications according to our customers’ expectations will impair the growth of our business. Our databases and database technologies may not be able to keep pace with the growth in the number of URLs and software applications, especially the growing amount of content utilizing foreign languages and the increasing sophistication of malicious code and the delivery mechanisms associated with spyware, phishing and other hazards associated with the Internet. Failure of our products to work properly or misuse of our products could impact sales, increase costs, and create risks of potential negative publicity and legal liability. Our products are complex and are deployed in a wide variety of complex network environments. Our products may have errors or defects that users identify after deployment, which could harm our reputation and our business. In addition, products as complex as ours frequently contain undetected errors when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. We have from time to time found errors in versions of our products, and we may find such errors in the future. Because customers rely on our products to manage employee behavior to protect against security risks and prevent the loss of sensitive data, any significant defects or errors in our products may result in negative publicity or legal claims. For example, an actual or perceived breach of network or computer security at one of our customers, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products, could adversely affect the market’s perception of our security products. Moreover, parties whose Web sites or software applications are placed in security-risk categories or other categories with negative connotations may seek redress against us for falsely labeling them or for interfering with their business. The occurrence of errors could adversely affect sales of our products, divert the attention of engineering personnel from our product development efforts and cause significant customer relations or legal problems. 21 Our products may also be misused or abused by customers or non-customer third parties who obtain access and use of our products. These situations may arise where an organization uses our products in a manner that impacts their end users’ or employees’ privacy or where our products are misappropriated to censor private access to the Internet. Any of these situations could result in negative press coverage and negatively affect our reputation. We face risks related to customer outsourcing to system integrators. Some of our customers have outsourced the management of their information technology departments to large system integrators. If this trend continues, our established customer relationships could be disrupted and our products could be displaced by alternative system and network protection solutions offered by system integrators. Significant product displacements could impact our revenue and have a material adverse effect on our business. Other vendors may include products similar to ours in their hardware or software and render our products obsolete. In the future, vendors of hardware and of operating system software or other software may continue to enhance their products or bundle separate products to include functions that are currently provided primarily by network security software. If network security functions become standard features of computer hardware or of operating system software or other software, our products may become obsolete and unmarketable, particularly if the quality of these network security features is comparable to that of our products. Furthermore, even if the network security and/or management functions provided as standard features by hardware providers or operating systems or other software is more limited than that of our products, our customers might accept this limited functionality in lieu of purchasing additional software. Sales of our products would suffer materially if we were then unable to develop new Web filtering, security and information leak prevention products to further enhance operating systems or other software and to replace any obsolete products. Our worldwide income tax provisions and other tax accruals may be insufficient if any taxing authorities assume taxing positions that are contrary to our positions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and for our accruals for other state, federal and international taxes such as sales and VAT taxes. In the ordinary course of a global business, there are many transactions for which the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Some of these uncertainties arise as a consequence of intercompany arrangements to share revenue and costs. In such arrangements there are uncertainties about the amount and manner of such sharing, which could ultimately result in changes once the arrangements are reviewed by taxing authorities. Although we believe that our approach to determining the amount of such arrangements is reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final tax authority review of these matters will not be materially different than that which is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and other tax accruals. Such differences could have a material effect on our income tax provisions or benefits, or other tax accruals, in the period in which such determination is made, and consequently, on our results of operations for such period. From time to time, we are also audited by various state, federal and international authorities relating to tax matters. We fully cooperate with all audits. Our audits are in various stages of completion; however, no outcome for a particular audit can be determined with certainty prior to the conclusion of the audit and appeals process. As each audit is concluded, adjustments, if any, are appropriately recorded in our financial statements in the period determined. To provide for potential tax exposures, we maintain allowances for tax contingencies based on reasonable estimates of our potential exposure with respect to the tax liabilities that may result from such audits. However, if the reserves are insufficient upon 22 completion of any audits, there could be an adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. Any failure to protect our proprietary technology would negatively impact our business. Intellectual property is critical to our success, and we rely upon trademark, copyright and trade secret laws in the United States and other jurisdictions as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology and our Websense brand. We rely on trade secrets to protect technology where we believe patent protection is not appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. While we require employees, collaborators and consultants to enter into confidentiality agreements, we cannot assure that these agreements will not be breached or that we will have adequate remedies for any breach. We may not be able to adequately protect our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure or the lawful development by others of such information. We have registered our Websense and Websense Enterprise trademarks in several countries and have registrations for the Websense trademark pending in several other countries. Effective trademark protection may not be available in every country where our products are available. Furthermore, any of our trademarks may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation. We currently have only four issued patents in the United States and two patents issued internationally, and we may be unable to obtain further patent protection in the future. We have several pending patent applications in the United States and in other countries. We cannot ensure that: · we were the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications; · we were the first to file patent applications for these inventions; · others will not independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; · any of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents; · any patents issued to us will provide us with any competitive advantages or will not be challenged by third parties; · we will develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; or · the patents of others will not have a negative effect on our ability to do business. Furthermore, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain. Effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available to us in every country in which our products are available. The laws of some foreign countries may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as U.S. laws, and mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights may be inadequate. As a result our means of protecting our proprietary technology and brands may not be adequate. Furthermore, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property, including the misappropriation or misuse of the content of our proprietary databases of universal resource locators (URLs) and software applications. Any such infringement or misappropriation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Third parties claiming that we infringe their proprietary rights could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and prevent us from selling our products. The software and Internet industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, trademarks and copyrights and by frequent litigation based on allegations of patent infringement or other 23 violations of intellectual property rights. As we expand our product offerings in the data leakage and security area where larger companies with large patent portfolios compete, the possibility of an intellectual property claim against us grows. We could receive claims that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of others, including claims regarding patents, copyrights, and trademarks. Any such claim, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation and distract management from day-to-day operations. If we are not successful in defending such claims, we could be required to stop selling our products, pay monetary amounts as damages, enter into royalty or licensing arrangements, or satisfy indemnification obligations that we have with some of our customers. Because we recognize revenue from subscriptions for our products ratably over the term of the subscription, downturns in sales may not be immediately reflected in our revenue. We expect that nearly all of our revenue for the foreseeable future will come from subscriptions to Websense Enterprise and our add-on products. Upon execution of a subscription agreement, we invoice our customers for the full term of the subscription agreement. We then recognize revenue from customers daily over the terms of their subscription agreements, which typically have durations of 12, 24 or 36 months. As a result, a majority of the revenue we report in each quarter is derived from deferred revenue from subscription agreements entered into and paid for during previous quarters. Because of this financial model, the revenue we report in any quarter or series of quarters may mask significant downturns in sales and the market acceptance of our products before these downturns result in declining revenues. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly, and these fluctuations may cause our stock price to fall. Our quarterly operating results have varied significantly in the past, and will likely vary in the future primarily as the result of fluctuations in our billings, revenues, operating expenses and tax provisions. Although a significant portion of our revenue in any quarter comes from previously deferred revenue, a meaningful portion of our revenue in any quarter depends on subscriptions to our products that are sold in that quarter. The risk of quarterly fluctuations is increased by the fact that a significant portion of our quarterly sales have historically been generated during the last month of each fiscal quarter, with many of the largest enterprise customers purchasing subscriptions to our products nearer to the end of the last month of each quarter. Due to the unpredictability of these end-of-period buying patterns, forecasts may not be achieved. We expect that our operating expenses will increase substantially in the future as we expand our selling and marketing activities, increase our research and development efforts and hire additional personnel which could impact our gross margins. In addition, our operating expenses historically have fluctuated, and may continue to fluctuate in the future, as the result of the factors described below and elsewhere in this quarterly report: · timing of marketing expenses for activities such as trade shows and advertising campaigns; · quarterly variations in general and administrative expenses, such as recruiting expenses and professional services fees; · increased research and development costs prior to new or enhanced product launches; and · timing of expenses associated with commissions paid on sales of subscriptions to our products. Consequently, our results of operations may not meet the expectations of current or potential investors. If this occurs, the price of our common stock may decline. 24 The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. The market price of our common stock has been and likely will continue to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors that are beyond our control, including: · announcements of technological innovations or new products or services by our competitors; · demand for our products, including fluctuations in subscription renewals; · changes in the pricing policies of our competitors; and · changes in government regulations. In addition, the market price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to: · announcements of technological innovations or new products or services by us; · changes in our pricing policies; and · quarterly variations in our revenues and operating expenses. Further, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market price of the stock of many Internet-related companies, and that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. A number of publicly traded Internet-related companies have current market prices below their initial public offering prices. Market fluctuations such as these may seriously harm the market price of our common stock. In the past, securities class action suits have been filed following periods of market volatility in the price of a company’s securities. If such an action were instituted, we would incur substantial costs and a diversion of management attention and resources, which would seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are dependent on our management team, and the loss of any key member of this team may prevent us from implementing our business plan in a timely manner. Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key management personnel. We are also substantially dependent on the continued service of our existing engineering personnel because of the complexity of our products and technologies. We do not have employment agreements with a majority of our executive officers, key management or development personnel and, therefore, they could terminate their employment with us at any time without penalty. We do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our employees. The loss of one or more of our key employees could seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. In such an event we may be unable to recruit personnel to replace these individuals in a timely manner, or at all, on acceptable terms. Because competition for our target employees is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled employees we need to support our planned growth. To execute our growth plan, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. We need to hire additional personnel in virtually all operational areas, including selling and marketing, research and development, operations and technical support, customer service and administration. Competition for these personnel is intense, especially for engineers with high levels of experience in designing and developing software and Internet-related products. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. We have from time to time in the past experienced, and we expect to continue to experience in the future, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate 25 qualifications. In order to attract and retain personnel in a competitive marketplace, we believe that we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash and equity based compensation. The volatility of our stock price may from time to time adversely affect our ability to recruit or retain employees. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have. If we fail to attract new personnel or retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could be severely harmed. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance, accounting principles and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance, accounting principles and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and NASDAQ Global Select Market rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time. Further guidance by regulatory and governing bodies can result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs related to the ongoing revisions to accounting, disclosure and governance practices. Our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In particular, our efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and our external auditors’ audit of that assessment has required the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may be harmed. It may be difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as some provisions of Delaware law, may discourage, delay or prevent third parties from acquiring us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. For example, our certificate of incorporation provides for a classified board, with each board member serving a staggered three-year term. It also provides that stockholders may not fill board vacancies, call stockholder meetings or act by written consent. Our bylaws further provide that advance written notice is required prior to stockholder proposals. Each of these provisions makes it more difficult for stockholders to obtain control of our board or initiate actions that are opposed by the then current board. Additionally, we have authorized preferred stock that is undesignated, making it possible for the board to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock with voting or other rights and preferences that could impede the success of any attempted change of control. Delaware law also could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law has an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by our board, including discouraging attempts that might result in a premium over the market price of the shares of common stock held by our stockholders. We do not intend to pay dividends. We have not declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock since we have been a publicly traded company. We currently intend to retain any future cash flows from operations to fund growth and, do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 26 