D. Risk Factors Declines in economic conditions in the Company’s major markets, including private-sector capital expenditure, construction investment, and domestic public investment, may adversely impact the results of operations of the Company. Industrial and capital goods make up a substantial portion of the Company’s products. Accordingly, revenues of the Company may decrease due to declining demand resulting from declines in general economic conditions, including private-sector capital expenditures, construction investment, and domestic public investment. In addition, governmental agricultural policies may adversely affect domestic sales of agriculture-related products. In overseas markets, especially those of North America and Europe, sales of the Company’s products, such as utility/compact tractors, may decrease due to declines in general economic conditions, including private consumption and residential construction investment in those regions. Fluctuations of foreign exchange rates, including a stronger yen, may reduce revenues and adversely affect the results of operations of the Company. The Company has overseas revenues and manufacturing subsidiaries. The financial results of each overseas subsidiary are consolidated into the results of the parent company after translation into Japanese yen. In addition, the transactions between the parent company and overseas subsidiaries or customers are generally denominated in the local currencies. The payments received in local currencies on such transactions are converted to Japanese yen. As a result, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates affect the consolidated financial results. In general, a stronger yen against other currencies adversely affects revenues and the results of operations of the Company. If the prices of raw materials increase or the Company has difficulties in procuring adequate supplies of them, there may be a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. The Company purchases substantial raw materials and parts from outside suppliers. If the prices of raw materials substantially increase due to the supply and demand gap and changes in market conditions, and stay at high levels for a long time, they may deteriorate the Company’s profitability. Also, if the Company has difficulties in procuring adequate supplies of raw materials, there may be a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations due to difficulties in production and sales activities. 2 Table of Contents The risks associated with international operations may adversely affect revenues and profitability of the Company. In some businesses of the Company, substantial overseas operations are conducted. Accordingly, the Company is subject to a number of risks inherent in doing business in those markets. If such risks occurred, the Company may face difficulties in stable production and sales of products in overseas markets that may affect revenues and profitability of the Company or they may hinder growth of the Company in specific countries. The following risks are serious concerns for the Company: • Unexpected changes in international, or in an individual country’s, tax regulations; • Unexpected legal or regulatory changes in a country; • Difficulties in retaining qualified personnel; • Underqualified technological skills or instability between management and employee unions in developing countries; and • Political instability in those countries. Among the United States, the EU, and Asian countries, which are important markets for the Company, the previously mentioned risks in Asian countries seem to be relatively higher than those of other regions. If strategic alliances, mergers, and acquisitions do not generate successful results as planned, then the Company’s profitability may deteriorate. The Company expects to use strategic alliances, mergers, and acquisitions to seek further growth. The success of these activities depends on such factors as the Company’s business environment, the ability of its business counterparts, and whether the Company and its counterparts share common goals. Therefore, if these activities are not successful and returns on related investments are lower than expected, the Company’s profitability may deteriorate. Stock market fluctuations may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial position. Stock market declines may cause impairment losses on the Company’s investments in marketable securities or cause an increase in actuarial loss of the Company’s retirement and pension plans as a result of a decline in the fair value of pension plan assets, which may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial position. The Company is subject to intensifying competitive pressures. Unless the Company performs better than other companies in each of its businesses, revenues and/or net income may decrease in the future. The Company is exposed to severe competition in each of its businesses. Unless the Company performs better than other companies in such areas as terms of trade, R&D, and quality, revenues and/or net income may decrease in the future. If the Company’s products and services are alleged to have serious defects, such allegations may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial position. If the Company’s products and services are alleged to have serious defects, the Company may have liability for significant damages, and there may be a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial position. If such claims are asserted, the Company may lose the confidence of the public and suffer a reduction in its brand value, which may result in decreased revenues or demand for its products. 3 Table of Contents The Company may be required to incur considerable expenses in order to comply with various environmental laws and regulations. Such expenses may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial position. The Company is subject to various environmental laws and regulations that apply to its products and activities. If these environmental laws and regulations, such as those that impose carbon dioxide emission controls, emission controls, and usage restrictions for certain materials which are used in the Company’s products, are strengthened or newly established in jurisdictions in which the Company conducts its businesses, the Company may be required to incur considerable expenses in order to comply with such laws and regulations. Such expenses may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial position. To the extent that the Company determines that it is not economical to continue to comply with such laws and regulations, the Company may have to curtail or discontinue its activities in the affected business areas. The Company may be required to incur significant expenses in connection with environmental damage its activities may allegedly cause. Such expenses may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial position. Claims may arise that the Company’s activities have caused environmental contamination, including the release of hazardous materials or air pollution, water pollution, and/or soil contamination. In such an event, the Company may elect or be required to implement costly corrective actions to resolve any issues associated with the release or presence of such hazardous materials or contamination and may face associated litigation. These factors may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial position. If the Company is required to incur significant expenses relevant to asbestos-related issues, then there may be a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial position and liquidity. The Company previously manufactured products containing asbestos from 1954 to 2001. If the Company is required to incur additional expenses, including payments to the individuals concerned or expenses arising from litigations related to the asbestos-related health hazards and such expenses become significant, they may result in a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial position and liquidity. The Company may experience a material effect on its results of operations and financial position if it faces issues related to compliance. The Company has declared its intention to conduct its corporate activities in compliance with legal regulations and ethical principles, and to exert efforts to cause all management and staff of the group companies not to act in violation of various legal regulations, ethical standards, or internal regulations. However, in the event that compliance issues arise, there is a possibility that the Company may be subject to disciplinary action by government ministries supervising its activities or to lawsuits, or may suffer a loss of public confidence, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial position. If the Company is damaged by natural disasters, then the Company’s operations may suffer great losses. Japan is a country with frequent earthquakes. If a strong earthquake or related tidal wave occurs, the Company’s manufacturing, logistics, and sales activities may be adversely affected, and may lose revenues and profits depending on the severity of the earthquake or tidal wave. Japan is also hit by typhoons very frequently. If major plants are struck by a large and powerful typhoon, the Company’s operations may suffer great losses due to disruption of operations, delay in production and shipment, and restoration costs for facilities. 4 Table of Contents 