Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will achieve our strategic objective. You should consider carefully the risks described below. In addition to the risk factors described below, other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include: • changes in the economy; • risk associated with possible disruption in our operations due to terrorism; • future regulatory actions and conditions in our operating areas; and • other risks and uncertainties as may be detailed from time to time in our public announcements and SEC filings. 8 Table of Contents We may not be able to sell the securities we receive in connection with our strategic alliance agreements and technology transfers for an amount equal to the revenue we previously recognized in connection with such transactions. We recognize revenue in connection with our strategic alliance agreements and technology transfers in an amount equal to the fair value of the securities we receive in connection with such transactions. With respect to our strategic alliance agreements, we recognize such revenue as earned in accordance with the contractual terms of each strategic alliance agreement. With respect to our technology transfers, we recognize such revenue upon the consummation of each technology transfer. Because the securities we receive in connection with such transactions are subject to legal restrictions on resale and mainly issued by thinly traded public companies or private companies, our ability to sell such securities may be limited. Given these facts as well as the subjective judgments and estimates inherent in fair value accounting, we may not be able to sell the securities we receive in connection with our strategic alliance agreements and technology transfers for an amount equal to the revenue we previously recognized in connection with such transactions. Our quarterly and annual results could fluctuate significantly. Our quarterly and annual operating results could fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors. These factors include the small number and range of values of the transactions that are completed each quarter, fluctuations in the values of our investments, the timing of the recognition of unrealized gains and losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets, the volatility of the stock market and its impact on our unrealized gains and losses, as well as other general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, quarterly and annual results are not necessarily indicative of our performance in future quarters and years. Our investment portfolio is highly concentrated in a limited number of portfolio companies and, as a result, our financial results are largely dependent upon the performance of these companies. Our investment portfolio is highly concentrated in a limited number of portfolio companies and, as a result, our financial results are largely dependent upon the performance of these companies. As a result, if one or more of these companies fails to perform as expected, our financial results could be negatively affected. Our portfolio companies are development stage companies dependent upon the successful commercialization of new technologies. Each of our portfolio companies is subject to a high degree of risk, and we may not be able to sell securities we receive in connection with our strategic alliances or technology transfers. We enter into strategic alliance and technology transfer agreements with development stage companies that our management believes can benefit from our expertise in technology transfer. Development stage companies are subject to all of the risks associated with new businesses. In addition, our portfolio companies are also subject to the risks associated with research and development of new technologies. These risks include the risk that new technologies cannot be identified, developed or commercialized, may not work, or become obsolete. Our portfolio companies must successfully acquire licenses to new technologies, and in some cases further develop new technologies. We cannot assure you that any of our portfolio companies will be successful. Our portfolio companies will be competing with larger, established companies with greater access to, and resources for, further development of these new technologies. We may not be able to sell the securities we receive in connection with our strategic alliances or technology transfers if our portfolio companies are not successful. Our portfolio companies depend upon the research and development activities of universities, medical research centers and federal research laboratories, over which neither our portfolio companies nor we have any control. Our portfolio companies depend upon the research activities of universities, medical research centers and federal research laboratories. Neither we, nor our portfolio companies, have any control over the research 9 Table of Contents activities of universities, medical research centers and federal research laboratories. As neither we nor our portfolio companies provide supervision of any universities, medical research centers and federal research laboratories, we cannot ensure that the research will be done properly and that the results, which we may license, will be reproducible. In addition, we have no control over what types of technologies are presented to us by universities, medical research centers and federal research laboratories for evaluation and commercial development. Further, the licenses to technologies that our portfolio companies obtain may be non-exclusive. Technologies acquired by our portfolio companies may become obsolete before we can sell their securities. Neither our portfolio companies nor we have any control over the pace of technology development. There is a significant risk that a portfolio company could acquire the rights to a technology that is currently or is subsequently made obsolete by other technological developments. If this were to occur, we may be unable to sell or otherwise dispose of the securities we received in connection with our strategic alliance and technology transfer transactions with such companies. The patents on the technologies that our portfolio companies license may infringe upon the rights of others, and patent applications that have been submitted may not be granted. Many of our portfolio companies rely upon patents to protect the technologies that they license. If the patents on technologies that they license are found to infringe upon the rights of others, or are held to be invalid, then the licenses to such technologies will have little or no value to our portfolio companies. In addition, if a patent to a technology licensed by a portfolio company is found to infringe upon the rights of others, the portfolio company may be liable for monetary damages. Our portfolio companies are dependent upon the universities, medical centers or government research facilities to file, secure and protect patents on licensed technologies. In the event that a patent is challenged or violated, our portfolio companies may not have the financial resources to defend the patent either in the preliminary stages of litigation or in court. In addition, if our portfolio companies acquire licenses to technologies with patents pending, we cannot assure you that such patents will be granted. If any such events were to occur, we may be unable to sell or otherwise dispose of the securities we received in connection with our strategic alliance and technology transfer transactions with such companies. Technologies that have been developed with funding from the U.S. government may have limits on their use, which could affect the value of the technology to a portfolio company. Technologies developed with funds provided by the U.S. government have restrictions regarding where they may be sold and have limits on exclusivity. A portfolio company that acquires a technology developed with federal funding may be limited as to where it can sell the technology. The technology may only be allowed to be sold or manufactured within the U.S. In addition, the U.S. government has the right to use technologies that it has funded regardless of whether the technology has been licensed to a third party. Such regulations may limit the marketability of a technology and therefore reduce the value of the technology to our portfolio companies. The securities we hold in our portfolio companies are subject to restriction on resale, and we may not be able to sell the securities we hold for amounts equal to their recorded value, if at all. Our portfolio companies are mainly thinly traded public companies or private companies, and we acquire securities in our portfolio companies in private transactions. As a result, substantially all of the securities we hold in our portfolio companies are subject to legal restrictions on resale. Furthermore, our ability to sell the securities in our portfolio may be limited by, and subject to, the lack of or limited nature of a trading market for such securities. Therefore, we cannot assure you that we will be able to sell our portfolio company securities for amounts equal to the values that we have ascribed to them or at the time we desire to sell. 10 Table of Contents We are dependent on sales transactions, structured as tax-free exchanges, to sell the new companies we form to acquire new technologies. A change in the Internal Revenue Code affecting tax-free exchanges could limit our ability to effectuate such transactions. To effectuate a technology transfer transaction, we typically create a newly formed company to acquire a new technology from a university, medical center or federal research laboratory and then exchange the securities of such newly formed company for securities in the company that acquires such newly formed company and the technology held by such newly formed company. We call this unique technology transfer process U2B®. We anticipate that most, if not all, of such transactions will be structured as tax-free exchanges under Section 368 of the Internal Revenue Code. A benefit of structuring our technology transfer transactions as tax-free exchanges under Section 368 is that such transactions do not result in a current taxable event for us for income tax purposes. If Section 368 were to be amended so that we were no longer able to structure our technology transfer transactions as tax-free exchanges, we may be able to effectuate our technology transfer transactions on commercially reasonable terms. In such event, we may be required to significantly alter the use of our U2B® investment process, which could have a significant negative impact on our business and financial results. The agreements we have with universities, medical research centers and federal research laboratories do not guarantee that such entities will grant licenses to us or other companies. The agreements that we have entered into with universities, medical research centers and federal research laboratories provide us with the ability to evaluate the commercial potential for technologies at an early stage of development. These agreements, however, do not provide us with any guarantee that following our evaluation, the university, medical research center or federal research laboratory will grant a license to us or other companies. As a result, we may expend time and resources evaluating a technology and not be able to secure a license to such technology. We are dependent upon and have little or no control over the efforts of portfolio companies to successfully commercialize the acquired technologies or to retain the licenses to such technologies. We receive common stock from our client companies based upon the mutually agreed upon values of the new companies we form to acquire new technologies, their licensed technology and the portfolio companies. We then intend to sell the securities that we acquire in exchange for our newly formed companies to acquire new technologies at some time in the future. Therefore, our ability to profit from an investment is ultimately dependent upon the price we receive for the shares of the portfolio company. In most cases, the value of the portfolio companies that acquire our newly formed companies to acquire new technologies will be dependent upon successfully commercializing the technologies they acquire. We do not have control over the portfolio companies that acquire our newly formed companies to acquire new technologies. These portfolio companies may face intense competition, including competition from companies with greater financial resources, more extensive research and development, manufacturing, marketing and service capabilities and a greater number of qualified and experienced managerial and technical personnel. They may need additional financing which they are unable to secure and which we are unable or unwilling to provide, or they may be subject to adverse developments unrelated to the technologies they acquire. They may lose the rights granted to them for the technology for failure to comply with the license agreement. We cannot assure you that any of the portfolio companies will be successful or that we will be able to sell the securities we receive at a profit or for sufficient amounts to even recover our cash outlay in connection with our strategic alliance and technology transfer transactions or that our portfolio companies will not take actions that could be detrimental to us. Our investments in our portfolio companies may be concentrated in one or more industries, and if these industries should decline or fail to develop as expected our cash outlay in connection with our strategic alliances and technology transfers transactions will be lost. Our investments in our portfolio companies may be concentrated in one or more industries. This concentration will mean that our investments will be particularly dependent on the development and performance 11 Table of Contents of those industries. Accordingly, our investments may not benefit from any advantages which might be obtained with greater diversification of the industries in which our portfolio companies operate. If those industries should decline or fail to develop as expected, our investments in our portfolio companies in those industries will be subject to loss. Substantially all our portfolio investments are recorded at fair value as determined in good faith by our Board of Directors, and as a result, there is uncertainty regarding the value of our portfolio investments. At December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, investments amounting to $37.9 million or 74% of our net assets and $38.7 million or 87% of our net assets, respectively, have been valued at fair value as determined by our Board of Directors. Pursuant to the requirements of the 1940 Act, our Board of Directors is responsible for determining in good faith the fair value of our investments for which market quotations are not readily available. Because there is typically no readily available market value for the investments in our portfolio, our Board of Directors determines in good faith the fair value of these investments pursuant to a valuation policy and a consistently applied valuation process. There is no single standard for determining fair value in good faith. As a result, determining fair value requires that judgment be applied to the specific facts and circumstances of each portfolio investment while employing a consistently applied valuation process for the types of investments we hold. If we were required to sell any of such investments, there is no assurance that the fair value, as determined by the Board of Directors, would be obtained. If we were unable to obtain fair value for such investments, there would be an adverse effect on our net asset value and on the price of our common stock. We adjust quarterly the valuation of our portfolio to reflect the Board of Directors’ determination of the fair value of each investment in our portfolio. Any changes in fair value are recorded in our statement of operations as “Change in net unrealized appreciation (depreciation) of investments.” As a result, the value of our portfolio securities and earnings change significantly from quarter to quarter. Our business depends on key personnel. We rely on, and will continue to be substantially dependent upon, the continued services of our management, principally our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman, Clifford M. Gross, Ph.D., our Chief Operating Officer, Douglas Schaedler, and our Chief Financial Officer, Carole R. Wright. We also depend upon our management’s key contacts with universities, medical research centers and federal research laboratories to maintain our access to new technologies and our relationships with companies in the private sector in order to effectuate the sale of the new companies we form to acquire new technologies. Therefore, a change in our executive management team could have a negative impact on the company. Additional equity or debt financing may not be available to our portfolio companies, which could result in our losing our cash outlay in connection with our strategic alliance and technology transfer transactions with the portfolio company if the portfolio company fails. We expect that many of our portfolio companies will require additional equity or debt financing to ensure their continued viability. The amount of additional financing needed will depend upon the maturity and objectives of the particular portfolio company. The availability of financing is generally a function of conditions that are beyond the control of our portfolio companies. We cannot assure you that our portfolio companies will be able to predict accurately the future financing requirements necessary for their success or that additional financing will be available to our portfolio companies from any source. If additional equity or debt financing is not available, some of our portfolio companies may be forced to cease operations, which could adversely affect our success and result in the loss of a substantial portion or all of our cash outlay in connection with our strategic alliance and technology transfer transactions with the portfolio company. Changes in the laws or regulations that govern us could have a material impact on our operations. Any change in the laws or regulations that govern our business could have a material impact on us or on our operations. Laws and regulations may be changed from time to time, and the interpretations of the relevant laws and regulations also are subject to change. 12 Table of Contents We are subject to certain risks associated with our foreign operations and investments. We have operations in the United Kingdom and Israel and make investments in foreign companies. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 1% of our assets were comprised of assets in foreign operations and investments in foreign companies. Certain risks are inherent in foreign operations, including: • difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; • foreign customers may have longer payment cycles than customers in the U.S.; • tax rates in certain foreign countries may exceed those in the U.S., and foreign earnings may be subject to withholding requirements, exchange controls or other restrictions; • general economic and political conditions in countries where we operate may have an adverse effect on our operations; • exposure to risks associated with changes in foreign exchange rates; • difficulties associated with managing a large organization spread throughout various countries; • difficulties in enforcing intellectual property rights; and • required compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations. Investing in foreign companies may expose us to additional risks not typically associated with investing in U.S. companies. These risks include changes in foreign exchange rates, exchange control regulations, political and social instability, expropriation, imposition of foreign taxes, less liquid markets and less available information than is generally the case in the United States, higher transaction costs, less government supervision of exchanges, brokers and issuers, less developed bankruptcy laws, difficulty in enforcing contractual obligations, lack of uniform accounting and auditing standards and greater price volatility. As we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. We cannot assure you that these and other factors will not have a material adverse effect on our international operations or our business as a whole. Our common stock may not continue to trade at a premium to our net asset value. Our common stock continues to trade in excess of our net asset value. See Note 7 “Selected Per Share Data and Ratios” to our consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K. There can be no assurance, however, that our common stock will continue to trade at a premium to our net asset value. The possibility that our common stock will trade at premiums that are unsustainable over the long term is separate and distinct from the risk that our net asset value will decrease. We may issue shares of our common stock at a discount to the market price for such shares, which may put downward pressure on the market price for shares of our common stock. In February 2006, we issued shares of our common stock at a discount to the market price for such shares in connection with a registered equity offering. The discount in such offering was approximately 15%. If we issue shares of our common stock at a discount to the market price for such shares, it may put downward pressure on the market price for shares of our common stock. Such downward pressure could in turn encourage short sales or similar trading with respect to shares of our common stock, which could in itself place further downward pressure on the market price for shares of our common stock. One of our current stockholders has significant influence over our management and affairs. Clifford M. Gross, Ph.D., our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman, beneficially owns approximately 22% of our common stock as of December 31, 2006. Therefore, Dr. Gross may be able to exert influence over our 13 Table of Contents management and policies. Dr. Gross may acquire additional equity in our company in the future. The concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of the sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our common stock. We may need additional capital in the future and it may not be available on acceptable terms. We have historically relied on debt and equity financing and cash flow from the sale of our investments to fund our operations, capital expenditures and expansion. However, we may require additional capital in the future to fund our operations, or respond to competitive pressures or strategic opportunities. We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. In addition, the terms of available financing may place limits on our financial and operating flexibility. If we are unable to obtain sufficient capital in the future, we may: • be forced to reduce our operations; • not be able to expand or acquire complementary businesses; and • not be able to develop new services or otherwise respond to changing business conditions or competitive pressures. Regulations governing our operation as a business development company will affect our ability to, and the way in which we, raise additional capital. We may require additional capital in the future to fund our operations, or respond to competitive pressures or strategic opportunities. We may acquire additional capital from the following sources: Senior Securities and Other Indebtedness. We may issue debt securities or preferred stock and/or borrow money from banks or other financial institutions, which we refer to collectively as senior securities, up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. If we issue senior securities, including debt or preferred stock, we will be exposed to additional risks, including the following: • Under the provisions of the 1940 Act, we will be permitted, as a BDC, to issue senior securities only in amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% after each issuance of senior securities. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy this test. If that happens, we may be required to sell a portion of our investments and, depending on the nature of our leverage, repay a portion of our debt at a time when such sales and/or repayments may be disadvantageous. • It is likely that any senior securities or other indebtedness we issue will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. • We, and indirectly, our stockholders will bear the cost of issuing and servicing such securities and other indebtedness. • Preferred stock or any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock, including separate voting rights and could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control to the detriment of the holders of our common stock. Additional Common Stock. We are not generally able to issue and sell our common stock at a price below our net asset value per share. We may, however, sell our common stock, warrants, options or rights to acquire our common stock, at a price below our net asset value of the common stock if our Board of Directors determines that such sale is in our best interests and that of our stockholders, and our stockholders approve such sale. In any such case, the price at which our securities are to be issued and sold may not be less than a price which, in the determination of our Board of Directors, closely approximates the market value of such securities (less any 14 Table of Contents distributing commission or discount). We may also make rights offerings to our stockholders at prices per share less than the net asset value per share, subject to applicable requirements of the 1940 Act. If we raise additional funds by issuing more common stock or senior securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, our common stock, the percentage ownership of our stockholders at that time would decrease and they may experience dilution. Moreover, we can offer no assurance that we will be able to issue and sell additional equity securities in the future, on favorable terms or at all. Our common stock price may be volatile. The trading price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly and may continue to fluctuate substantially, depending on many factors, many of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to operating performance. These factors include the following: • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of BDCs or technology transfer companies; • changes in regulatory policies, accounting or tax guidelines with respect to BDCs or technology transfer companies; • actual or anticipated changes in our earnings or fluctuations in our operating results; • actual or anticipated changes in the value of our investments; • changes in financial reporting requirements; • general economic conditions and trends; • loss of a major funding source; or • departures of key personnel; • changes to the market or shareholder’s acceptance of our unique technology transfer business; • the consummation of mergers or acquisitions of related businesses. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments On May 19, 2006, we filed pre-effective amendment No. 1 to our registration statement on Form N-2 (File No. 333-133093) with the SEC. On June 23, 2006, the staff of the SEC’s Division of Investment Management (the “SEC staff”) sent us a letter commenting on the Form N-2 registration statement and requesting that we answer their questions and provide additional information. We exchanged correspondence with the members of the SEC staff and provided them with additional information. As of the date of this annual report on Form 10-K, there is one outstanding accounting comment on the Form N-2 registration statement that we believe is material. The outstanding accounting comment relates to the manner by which we recognize revenue in connection with our strategic alliance agreements and technology transfer transactions. Specifically, we typically receive unregistered securities from our client companies as payment for the services we render to them under our strategic alliance agreements and technology transfer transactions. We record revenue in connection with such agreements and transactions based on the fair value of the securities received. To date, the SEC staff’s comments relating to the outstanding accounting issue have largely required us to demonstrate that the above-described revenue recognition policy is in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). In this regard, our management, board of directors, audit committee, registered independent public accounting firm and an outside accounting consultant have all concluded, and represented to the SEC staff, that the above-described revenue recognition policy is not only consistent with GAAP and related SEC guidance, but also provides the clearest and most transparent understanding to all users of our financial statements. However, there can be no assurance that the SEC staff will concur with this assessment. If the SEC staff ultimately does not concur with this view, then we may be required to alter the above-described revenue recognition policy and our financial reporting. 15 Table of Contents 