Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully review and consider the risks listed in the “Risk Factors” section below, as well as the other information contained in this 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. If any of the following risks, or any other risks not described below, actually occur, it is likely that our business, financial condition and operating results could be seriously harmed. As a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. We have Incurred Significant Losses in the Past, and We May Continue to Incur Significant Losses in the Future. If We Continue to Incur Losses, Our Business Will Be Adversely Affected to a Material Extent. The Company has incurred substantial recurring losses from operations since inception, and has a history of negative operating cash flow. At December 31, 2005, the Company’s current liabilities exceeded current assets by $5.6 million. In addition, the Company has an accumulated deficit of $96.7 million at December 31, 2005. The Company may not be able to achieve the level of sales or contain its costs in the long term sufficiently to generate sufficient cash flow to fund its operations. Our Financial Condition has Raised Substantial Doubt Regarding Our Ability to Continue as a Going Concern We have incurred substantial operating and net losses, as well as (except calendar 2002 and 2005) negative operating cash flows, since inception. As a result, the independent auditor’s report accompanying our consolidated financial statements starting with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001 contains an explanation that our financial statements have been prepared assuming that we will continue as a going concern. Factors such as those described in the preceding risk factor raise substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Management has undertaken to significantly reduce costs through a series of actions, including, but not limited to, lowering headcount, reducing operating costs and considering various financing alternatives for its operations. On June 16, 2004, we completed the Preferred Series A Financing (private placement) transaction described elsewhere herein with a group of accredited investors headed by Emancipation Capital LP. Notwithstanding either the management undertakings to reduce costs or raising funds through the private placement, we cannot assure you that management’s efforts will lead us to profitability, nor can we provide any assurance that we can continue raising funds on acceptable terms. The consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of these uncertainties. As a result, our ability to continue as a going concern will depend on our ability to raise working capital and further streamline our operations and/or increase sales. Our failure in any of these efforts may materially and adversely affect our ability to continue as a going concern. The Merger with Trilogy May Not be Consummated If Certain Closing Conditions Are Not Met On March 10, 2006, we entered into a merger agreement with Trilogy and RCN pursuant to which RCN will merge with and into Artemis. Upon completion of the merger, Artemis would become part of Trilogy’s recently announced Versata Group, a leading provider of business rules, configuration and pricing management systems headquartered in Austin, Texas. Upon the completion of the merger, (i) holders of our common stock will be entitled to receive $1.60 in cash for each share that they own (including shares of our restricted common stock), and (ii) holders of our preferred stock will be entitled to receive $2.20 in cash for each share that they own. Before we can consummate the merger, a number of conditions (including certain financial conditions) must be satisfied. If any of those conditions are not satisfied and we do not receive a corresponding waiver from Trilogy on those conditions, the merger may not be consummated. As a result, we would need to review other alternatives to fund the Company’s cash needs. Any such additional financing may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. It is Uncertain If We Can Renegotiate the Agreement With Laurus At Favorable Terms or At All, If the Merger with Trilogy is Not Consummated Concurrent with the execution of the merger agreement with Trilogy and RCN, we entered into an agreement with Laurus that provides a final payout relating to, and thereby closing, the Company’s current line of credit secured with Laurus. By the earlier of the close of the proposed merger or June 16, 2006, the Company has agreed to pay Laurus the following amounts: (i) all principal outstanding pertaining to the over-advance provided to the Company, which equals $3,000,000, plus accrued interest, (ii) all principal outstanding under the minimum borrowing note, which equals $865,000, plus accrued interest and (iii) $110,000 in exchange for the cancellation of all outstanding warrants owned by Laurus. If the merger with Trilogy is not consummated at all or by latest June 16, 2006, we will have to renegotiate the agreement with Laurus or seek additional funding to pay the amounts owed to Laurus. We may not be able to renegotiate the agreement with Laurus at favorable terms or at all, and may not be able to obtain additional financing to repay the debt owed to Laurus. The Current Slow Economy or Downturn in other Parts of the World and Stagnant or Reduced Information Technology Spending May Negatively Affect Demand For Our Products And Services Which Would Adversely Affect Future Revenue. Recent worldwide economic indicators, including but not limited to gross domestic product and job growth figures in the U.S., reflect a slowdown in economic activity not only in the United States, but globally as well, including Western Europe (e.g., Germany) and Asia. Some parts of the world currently are suffering actual downturns, not just slow growth. This world wide trend is critical, given that approximately 80% of our Company’s revenue in 2005 was from non-U.S. sources. Some reports have indicated either a significant decline or merely maintaining spending at current levels by corporations in the area of information technology, which is the overall market in which we participate. Contributing to the lethargic spending activity are various conflicts throughout the world making headlines virtually every day. While we cannot specifically correlate the impact of macro-economic conditions on our sales activities, we believe that the economic conditions and international conflicts have resulted in decreased demand in our target markets, and in particular, have increased the average length of our sales cycle and decreased the size of our license transactions. To the extent that the current slow growth and/or economic downturn continues or increases in severity, we believe demand for our products and services, and therefore future revenue, will be stagnant or reduced. Even if the current global economy improves and international conflicts diminish, we cannot assure you that corporations will increase their information technology spending in our market or that we will be able to maintain or improve revenue levels. Contributing to the uncertainies are also certain trends some analysts have identified, including but not limited to: delays in closing software transactions have been more prevelant for small software companies such as ours; the software industry is ripe for consolidation, either through (i) mergers and acquistions or (ii) market-share gains by major companies at the expense of smaller companies, as customers standardize on fewer vendors; some companies are increasingly purchasing “test copies” of software, not committing to major purchases until they are certain the software works and will improve their systems; other companies are experimenting with “open source” software (often, at no cost), and with renting software from Internet-based vendors, in order to avoid large, up-front payments; 9 an increased perception by some companies that large software or systems projects are merely “optional,” not “essential;” Customers concluding that they can extract larger discounts during the last few weeks of a quarter, perceiving that software vendors are eager to meet sales quotas and hit revenue targets; and the June, 2004 disclosure, that as a result of the antitrust trial over Oracle’s hostile bid to acquire PeopleSoft, Oracle was willing to offer an 80% discount off of list price in order to finalize a transaction, thereby making less attractive the lower discounts that are more apt to be offered by smaller software companies. Our Quarterly Financial Results Are Subject To Significant Fluctuation, And If Our Future Results Are Below The Expectations Of Investors, The Price Of Our Common Stock Would Likely Decline. Our operating results have in the past and could in the future vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Our quarterly operating results are likely to be particularly affected by the number of customers licensing our products during any quarter and the size of such licensing transactions. Other factors that could affect our quarterly operating results include: our ability to attract new customers and retain and sell additional products and services to current customers; the renewal or non-renewal of maintenance contracts with our customers; the announcement or introduction of new products or services by us or our competitors; changes in the pricing of our products and services or those of our competitors; variability in the mix of our product and services revenue in any quarter; and the amount and timing of operating expenses and capital expenditures relating to the business. Due to these and other factors, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of our future performance. In addition, we may be unable to accurately forecast our operating results because our business and the market in which we operate are changing rapidly. Such changes could adversely affect our forecasting ability, which currently relies on historical patterns showing that license revenue tends to be concentrated in the third month of each quarter due to traditional buying patters in the software industry. It is possible that, in some future periods, our revenue performance, expense levels, cash usage and/or other operating results will be below the expectations of investors and/or analysts. If this occurs, the price of our common stock might decline. Our Sales Cycle Is Lengthy, Which Could Delay The Growth Of Our Revenues And/Or Increase Our Expenditures. Our software and services are complex, and include some newer products and services that have only recently been released commercially. We may face significant delays in acceptance of our newer products and services. We will not be able to recognize any revenue during the period in which a potential customer evaluates whether or not to purchase these products and/or services, a period which could extend for six to nine months and beyond. The decision of a customer to use any of our products or services may be expensive, time consuming and complex and may require a customer to make a significant commitment of resources. As a result, we will have to expend valuable time and resources to educate interested persons at all levels in these organizations on the use and benefits of our products and services. Our expenditure of substantial time and resources to persuade customers to use our products and services and/or an unexpectedly long sales and implementation cycle for them will have a negative impact on the timing of our revenues. We Currently Depend On A Small Number Of Major Customers For A Significant Amount Of Our Net Sales And Service Revenues. A Reduction In Business From Any Of These Customers, Or Failure By Any Of These Customers To Timely Pay Amounts Owed To Us, Could Adversely Affect Our Net Revenues And Could Seriously Harm Our Business And Financial Condition. During the year ended December 31, 2005, net sales (comprised of software licensing, support and consulting services) to our largest customer, Lockheed Martin Corporation, represented approximately 5% of our total net sales. We may continue to be dependent upon this customer for a similarly significant percentage of our revenues for the foreseeable future. We cannot assure you, however, that our net sales generated from this customer will reach or exceed historical levels in any future period. A cessation or reduction of business from this customer could, in the future, harm our business and financial condition. We cannot assure you that, if sales to this customer 10 decline we will be able to replace these sales with sales to existing or new customers in a timely manner, or at all. If we could not replace these sales, our business and financial condition would be adversely affected to a material extent. Further, should this customer fail to timely pay us amounts owed, we would suffer a substantial decline in our cash flow, which would have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and/or results of operations. Integration Of Our Products With The Customer’s Existing Systems May Be Difficult, Costly And Time-Consuming, And Customers Could Become Dissatisfied If Such Integration Requires More Time, Expense Or Personnel Than Expected. Subsequent to the initial installation of our product, our customers may decide to integrate our product with one or more of their other computer systems and software programs. Our customers may find that the integration of our products into additional computer systems and software programs, if required, may be difficult, costly and time-consuming. Customers could become dissatisfied with our products if such integration requires more time, expense or personnel than they expected. Additionally, our losses could increase if, for customer satisfaction and reputational reasons and when we are engaged in integrating our software into the customer’s additional computer systems and software programs, we do not bill our customers for all of the time and expenses we incur in connection with these integration issues, which would adversely affect our operating results. New Customers May Not Accept Our Software And Services. Before making any commitment to use our software and services, potential users will likely consider a wide range of issues, including service benefits, integration with legacy systems, potential capacity, functionality and reliability. Prospective users will generally need to change established project and resource management practices and operate their businesses in new ways. Because some of our products and services represent new, Internet-based approaches for most organizations, those persons responsible for the use or approval of our products and services for our customers will be addressing many new technical and project management issues for the first time. If our newer products and services are not attractive to potential customers, we will fail to generate significant new revenues from these newer products and services. In addition, if software integrators fail to adopt and support our products and services as project and resource management tools, our ability to reach our target customers in this market may be diminished. If We Are Unable To Introduce New Products Or Product Enhancements On A Timely Basis, Or If The Market Does Not Accept These Products Or Product Enhancements, Our Business Will Suffer. The market for certain of our products and services is new and the markets for all of our products and services are likely to change rapidly. Our future success will depend on our ability to anticipate changing customer requirements effectively and in a timely manner and to offer products and services that meet these demands. The development of new or enhanced software products and services is a complex and uncertain process. We may experience design, development, testing and other difficulties that could delay or prevent the introduction of new products or product enhancements and could increase research and development costs. Further, we may experience delays in market acceptance of new products or product enhancements as we engage in marketing and education of our user base regarding the advantages and system requirements for the new products and services and as customers evaluate the advantages and disadvantages of upgrading to our new products or services. We Depend On Implementation, Marketing And Technology Relationships; If Our Current And Future Relationships Are Not Successful, Our Business Might Be Harmed. We rely on implementation, marketing and technology relationships with a variety of companies. Such relationships include those with consulting firms; and third-party vendors of software, such as BEA, Cognos, Intraspect, Concur, Microsoft and Oracle, whose products or technologies, such as reporting engines, search engines, application servers, databases and operating systems, we incorporate into or integrate with our products. We depend on these companies to recommend our products to customers, promote our products and/or services, provide our direct sales force with customer leads and provide enhanced functionality to our products and/or services. Some of these relationships are not documented in writing, or are governed by agreements that can be terminated by either party with little or no penalty or prior notice and do not provide for minimum payments to us. Companies with which we have an implementation, marketing or technology relationship may promote products or services of several different companies, including, in some cases, products or services that compete with our products and services. These companies may not devote adequate resources to selling or promoting our products and services. We may not be able to maintain these relationships or enter into additional relationships in the future. 11 We May Not Become Profitable If We Are Unable To Adapt Our Business Model To Changes In Our Market. If we are unable to anticipate changes in the market for project and resource management software and services, we may not be able to expand our business or successfully compete with other companies. Our current business model depends upon continuing to enhance and expand our project management and collaboration solutions. We may be required to further adapt our business model in response to additional changes in the portfolio and project management marketplace, or if our current business model is not successful. There Is Significant Competition In Our Market, Which Could Make It Difficult To Attract Customers, Cause Us To Reduce Prices And Result In Reduced Gross Margins Or Loss Of Market Share. The market for our products and services is highly competitive, dynamic and subject to frequent technological changes. We expect the intensity of competition and the pace of change to at least maintain or increase in the future. We compete not only against industry giants such as Microsoft and SAP and the in-house development efforts of such companies creating individualized solutions, but also against a myriad of other software application vendors offering multiple products. Our current independent software vendor competition includes, among many others, Niku Corporation (recently acquired by Computer Associates), Primavera Systems Inc. and ProSight Inc., and these companies may have greater financial, marketing, and/or other resources than our Company. A number of companies offer products that provide some of the functionality of our products. We do not believe that any one company has a dominant position in our market as a whole. However, we may not be able to maintain our competitive position against current or potential competitors, especially those with significantly greater financial, marketing, service, support, technical and other resources. Competitors with greater resources may be able to undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and make more attractive offers to potential employees, distributors, resellers or other strategic partners. We expect additional competition from other established and emerging companies as the market for our software continues to develop. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. If We Fail To Effectively Manage Our International Operations, Our Revenues May Not Increase. We May Incur Additional Losses. Our presence as a world-wide company has placed, and will continue to place, significant strains on our infrastructure, management, internal controls and financial systems. Our personnel, systems, procedures and controls may be inadequate to support our future operations. In order to accommodate any possible growth of our business, we will need to hire, train and retain appropriate personnel to manage our operations. We will also need to ensure that our financial and management controls, reporting systems and operating systems keep pace with the growth and expansion of our business. We may encounter difficulties in developing and implementing required new systems. If we are unable to manage our expansion and/or growth effectively and maintain the quality of our products and services, our business may suffer. Any Acquisitions Of Technologies, Products Or Businesses That We Make May Not Be Successful, May Cause Us To Incur Substantial Additional Costs, And/Or May Require Us To Incur Indebtedness Or Issue Equity Securities On Terms That May Not Be Attractive. As part of our business strategy, we have in the recent past acquired or invested in technologies, products or businesses that were expected to be complementary to our business and/or may be complementary in the future. The process of integrating any future acquisitions could involve substantial risks for us, including: • unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures; • difficulties in assimilation of acquired personnel, operations, technologies and/or products; • the need to manage a significantly larger and more geographically-dispersed business; • amortization of large amounts of intangible assets; • the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing development of our business or other business concerns; • the risks of loss of employees of an acquired business, including employees who may have been instrumental to the success or growth of that business; and • the use of substantial amounts of our available cash or financial resources to consummate the acquisition. 12 We may never achieve the benefits that we expect from the combination of the Opus360 and Legacy Artemis businesses or that we might anticipate from any future acquisition. If we make future acquisitions, we may issue shares of our capital stock that dilute existing stockholders, incur debt, assume significant liabilities and/or create additional expenses related to amortizing intangible assets, any of which might reduce our reported earnings (or increase our net losses) and cause our stock price to decline. Any financing that we might need for future acquisitions may only be available to us on terms that materially dilute existing shareholders, restrict our business and/or impose costs on us that would reduce our net income or increase our net losses. International Activities Expose Us To Additional Operational Challenges That We Might Not Otherwise Face. In the year ended December 31, 2005, revenue from non-U.S. sources represented approximately 80% of total revenue. (We do not hedge foreign currency risk, and approximately 56% of operating expenses in 2005 were denominated in foreign cuurencies.) As we operate internationally, we are exposed to operational challenges that we would not face if we conducted our operations only in the United States. These include: • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, particularly if we sell our products in denominations other than U.S. dollars; • longer sales cycles in international markets; • seasonal fluctuations in purchasing patterns in other countries, particularly declining sales during summer months in European markets; • tariffs, export controls and other trade barriers; • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable in foreign countries; • the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws; • political disruptions or coups and terrorist attacks; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries, particularly Asia; and • the need to develop internationalized versions of our products and foreign language marketing and sales materials. We May Become Subject To Burdensome Government Regulations And Legal Uncertainties Affecting The Internet, Which Could Increase Our Expenses And/Or Limit The Scope Of Our Operations. Legal uncertainties and new regulations relating to the use of the Internet could increase our cost of doing business, prevent us from delivering our products and services over the Internet or slow the growth of our business. To date, governmental regulations have not materially restricted use of the Internet in our markets. However, the legal and regulatory environment relating to the Internet is uncertain and may change. In addition to new laws and regulations being adopted, existing laws may be applied to the Internet. New and existing laws may cover several issues, which include: • user privacy; • civil rights and employment claims; • consumer protection; • libel and defamation; • copyright, trademark and patent infringement; • pricing controls; • characteristics and quality of products and services; • sales and other taxes; and • other claims based on the nature and content of Internet materials. 13 In addition, any imposition of state sales and/or use taxes on the products and services sold over the Internet may decrease demand for some of our products and services. The United States Congress has passed legislation which limits the ability of states to impose any new taxes on Internet-based transactions. If Congress does not renew this legislation, any subsequent imposition of state taxes on Internet-based transactions could limit the demand for our products and services and/or increase our expenses. Defects In Our Products Could Result In Loss Of Or Delay In Revenue, Failure To Achieve Market Acceptance And/Or Increased Costs. Products as complex as those we offer or are developing frequently contain undetected defects or errors. Despite internal testing and testing by our customers or potential customers, defects or errors may occur in our existing or future products and services. From time to time in the past, versions of our software that have been delivered to customers have contained errors. In the future, if we are not able to detect and correct errors prior to release, we may experience a loss of or delay in revenue, failure to achieve market acceptance and/or increased costs to correct errors, any of which could significantly harm our business. Defects or errors could also result in tort or warranty claims. Warranty disclaimers and liability limitation clauses in our customer agreements may not be enforceable. Furthermore, our errors and omissions insurance may not adequately cover us for claims. If a court were to refuse to enforce the liability-limiting provisions of our contracts for any reason, or if liabilities arose that were not contractually limited or adequately covered by insurance, our business could be harmed. We May Experience Reduced Revenue And Harm To Our Reputation If Any System Failures Result In Unexpected Network Interruptions. Any system failure that we may experience, including network, software or hardware failures, that causes an interruption in the delivery of our products and services or a decrease in responsiveness of our services could result in reduced use of our services and damage to our reputation. Our servers and software must be able to accommodate a high volume of traffic by organizations and individual users. There can be no assurance, however, that our systems will be able to accommodate our growth. We rely on third-party Internet service providers to provide our clients with access to our Internet-based services. We have experienced on several occasions service interruptions as a result of systems failures by these Internet service providers, which have lasted between four to eight hours. We believe that these interruptions will occur from time to time in the future. In addition, from time to time the speed of our system has been reduced as a result of increased traffic through our Internet service provider. We may not be able to expand and adapt our network infrastructure at a pace that will be commensurate with the additional traffic increases that we anticipate will occur. If We Fail To Protect Our Patents, Trademarks, Copyrights Or Other Intellectual Property Rights, Other Parties Could Appropriate Our Proprietary Properties, Including Our Technology. The technology and software we have developed which underlies our products and services is very important to us. Our proprietary products are not protected by patents. However, to protect our intellectual property rights, we license our software products and require our customers to enter into license agreements that impose restrictions on their ability to utilize the software or transfer it to other users. Additionally, we seek to avoid disclosure of our trade secrets through a number of means, including, but not limited to, requiring those persons with access to our proprietary information to execute confidentiality agreements with us and restricting access to our source code. In addition, we protect our software, documentation, templates and other written materials under trademark, trade secret and copyright laws. Even with all of these safequards, there can be no assurance that such precautions will provide meaningful protection from competition or that competitors will not independently be able to develop similar technology. The copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, which are a significant source of protection for our intellectual property, offer only limited protection. In addition, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in software are uncertain and still evolving, and the future viability or value of any of our intellectual property rights is uncertain. Effective trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our products are distributed or made available. If, in the future, litigation is necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and/or financial condition. As a result, ultimately, we may be unable, for financial or other reasons, to enforce our rights under the various intellectual property laws described above. In addition, the laws and/or administrative proceedings of certain foreign countries in which our products are or may be licensed (e.g., Asia) may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as laws of the United States. Relatedly, patent protection 14 within the World Trade Organization appears to permit substantial discretion to member countries. A notable example is China’s 2004 voidance of Pfizer’s Viagra patent which was awarded by that country in September, 2001. Third Parties Might Bring Infringement Claims Against Us Or Our Customers That Could Harm Our Business. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States involving patents, trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property rights, particularly in the software industry. We could become subject to intellectual property infringement claims as the number of our competitors grows and our products and services increasingly overlap with competitive offerings. In addition, as part of our product licenses, we agree to indemnify our customers against claims that our products infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. These claims, even if not meritorious, could be expensive and divert management’s attention from operating our business. We could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves and our customers against infringement claims. If we become liable to third parties for infringement of their intellectual property rights, we could be required to pay a substantial damage award and to develop non-infringing technology, obtain one or more licenses for us and our customers from third parties or cease selling the products that contain the infringing intellectual property. We may be unable to develop non-infringing technology or obtain a license at a reasonable cost, or at all. We May Not Be Able To Access Third Party Technology, Which We Depend Upon To Conduct Our Business And As A Result We Could Experience Delays In The Development And Introduction Of New Products and Services Or Enhancements Of Existing Products and Services. If we lose the ability to access third party technology which we use, are unable to gain access to additional products or are unable to integrate new technology with our existing systems, we could experience delays in our development and introduction of new products and services and related improvements or enhancements until equivalent or replacement technology can be accessed, if available, or developed internally, if feasible. If we experience these delays, our revenues could be substantially reduced. We license technology that is incorporated into our products and services from third parties. In light of the rapidly evolving nature of technology, we may increasingly need to rely on technology licensed to us by other vendors, including providers of development tools that will enable us to quickly adapt our technology to new products and services. Technology from our current or other vendors may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Proha Effectively Controls the Company. This Will Severely Limit Your Ability To Influence Corporate Matters. As of December 31, 2005, Proha Plc, a Finnish company, beneficially owns approximately 53% of our outstanding common stock after giving effect to the conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock. As a result, Proha controls the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to Company stockholders for approval, including share exchanges, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of the Company’s assets, and also could prevent or cause a change in control. The interests of Proha may sometimes differ from the interests of the Company’s other stockholders. In addition, third parties may be discouraged from making a tender offer or bid to acquire the Company because of this concentration of ownership. Owners of the Series A Preferred Stock hold voting rights under the Preferred Series A Financing transaction as more fully described elsewhere herein, to the extent each holder has the right to convert the Series A Preferred Stock into common stock. Still, Proha would maintain control as a majority shareholder, even after factoring in such conversion rights, assuming Proha does not sell any of its shares of the Company’s common stock. The Market Price For Our Common Stock Is Volatile And Could Result In A Decline In The Value Of Your Investment. The market price of our common stock, like that of many other technology companies, is extremely volatile. The market price of our common stock has ranged from 20 cents per share to $12.25 per share since the second quarter of 2001, and typically has a low trading volume. For the three months ended December 31, 2005, the daily trading volume of the Company’s common stock ranged from nil to approximately 217,000 shares and averaged approximately 11,000 shares. We cannot predict the extent to which investor interest in our stock will create or sustain an active trading market. If such a market were to develop, the market price of our common stock may continue to be highly volatile. The sale of a large block of shares could depress the price of our common stock to a greater degree than a company that typically has a higher volume of trading in its securities. The value of your investment in our common stock could decline due to the impact of any of the following factors upon the market price of our common stock: • variation in our quarterly operating results, including our inability to increase revenues; • announcements of new product or service offerings by our competitors; • announcement of new customer relationships by our competitors; 15 • changes in market valuations of comparable companies; • additions to, or departures of, our executive officers; and • conditions and trends in the Internet and electronic commerce industries. Further, the stock exchanges and markets have experienced substantial price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations have particularly affected the market prices of equity securities of many technology companies and have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. We Do Not Intend To Pay Dividends During the nine months ended December 31, 2000, Legacy Artemis paid a cash dividend of $140,000. However, we do not intend to declare dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. In addition, as described elsewhere herein, we are currently prohibited from paying any cash dividends under certain circumstances. We Are Uncertain Of Our Ability To Obtain Additional Financing For Our Future Capital Needs. We believe that cash from operations and existing cash will be sufficient to meet our working capital and expense requirements for at least the next twelve months. However, we may need to raise additional funds in order to fund our business, expand our sales activities, develop new or enhance existing products and/or respond to competitive pressures. As of December 31, 2005, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $4.1 million. Additional financing may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. You Will Experience Dilution If We Raise Funds Through The Issuance Of Additional Equity And/Or Convertible Debt Securities. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity securities or convertible debt securities, you will experience dilution of your percentage ownership of our Company. This dilution may be substantial. In addition, these securities may have powers, preferences and rights that are senior to the holders of our common stock and may further limit our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. The Completion of the Preferred Series A Financing Subjects You To Potential Dilution and May Limit Our Ability in the Future Either To Raise Additional Funding Or To Pay Dividends on Our Common Stock. The Series A Holders have certain powers, preferences and rights that are senior to the holders of our common stock. Such rights include, but are not limited to, the potential payment of a dividend. So long as at least 30% of the Series A Preferred Stock is outstanding, the Company shall not, directly or indirectly, redeem, or declare or pay any cash dividend or distribution on, the common stock without the prior express written consent of at least a majority of the Series A Holders. One other example of such rights relates to possibly raising additional capital via the issuance of additional equity or convertible debt securities in the future. So long as at least 30% of the Series A Preferred Stock is outstanding, the Company cannot issue any additional preferred shares other than to the Series A Holders and the Company cannot issue any other securities or incur any indebtedness exceeding that which existed on June 16, 2004, except in accordance with the Equity Exclusion and the Debt Exclusion (as each term is defined in the Certificate of Designations, which can be reviewed in our Form 8-K filed with the SEC on June 18, 2004, relating to the Preferred Series A Financing transaction), without the prior express written consent of not less than a majority of the Series A Holders. We have Potential Liability for Possible Violations of Section 5 of the Securities Act Arising from the Integration of Certain 2004 Financings with this Offering. On August 14, 2003, the Company entered into an agreement with Laurus and received a $5.0 million revolving credit facility (the “Laurus Facility”) in the form of a three-year Convertible Note secured by a security interest in all of the Company’s property and assets located in the United States (US) and the United Kingdom (UK), except for intellectual property rights. Borrowings under the Laurus Facility are based on the balance of eligible trade accounts receivable reported by the Company’s operating entities in the US and the UK. The Laurus Facility automatically renews every three years unless cancelled by the Company or Laurus. In conjunction with the original transaction, Laurus was paid a fee of $175,000 and received a ten-year transferable warrant (the “Laurus Warrant”) to purchase 16 125,000 shares of the Company’s restricted common stock. The Laurus Warrant exercise price and the number of shares underlying the warrant are subject to anti-dilution adjustments for stock splits, combinations and dividends. On July 30, 2004, the Company and Laurus agreed to restructure and amend the revolving credit facility and replaced the Secured Convertible Note of up to $5.0 million with a Secured Convertible Minimum Borrowing Note (the “Minimum Borrowing Note”) in the amount of $1.5 million and a Secured Revolving Note of up to $3.5 million (the “Laurus Restructuring”). The Minimum Borrowing Note is due on August 26, 2006 and is convertible into common stock of the Company at the option of the holder at the following prices: 190,000 shares at $1.45 per share, 190,000 shares at $1.81 per share, and 342,646 shares at $2.57 per share. Thereafter, the conversion price adjusts to 105% of the average closing market price of the Company’s common stock for the five trading days immediately preceding each additional borrowing (in serialized $1.5 million increments) under the Minimum Borrowing Note. Loans exceeding $1.5 million may be available to the Company, based on a formula set forth in the original Minimum Borrowing Note. All of the aforementioned conversion prices are subject to downward adjustment under certain conditions. Under the terms of the related agreement, absent an event of default as defined, conversion of the Minimum Borrowing Note into the Company’s common stock may not result in beneficial ownership by Laurus (including shares issuable under the Laurus Warrant that are exercisable within sixty days of any determination date) of more than 2.5% of the Company’s outstanding common stock. The Minimum Borrowing Note has a 30% prepayment penalty. Any loans under the Secured Revolving Note are convertible only in an event of default. The Company currently has no loans outstanding under the Secured Revolving Note. Absent an event of default as defined, the post-February 15, 2004 interest rate on both of the July 2004 amended Laurus notes described above is (except as explained in this paragraph) the greater of the Wall-Street-Journal prime rate plus 0.75% (the “adjustable interest rate”) or 5%. The adjustable interest rate may be periodically reduced based on certain defined differences between the average market price of the Company’s common stock and the conversion prices set forth above, provided that such market price is at least 130% of the applicable conversion price. The maximum contractual adjustment would reduce the discounted interest rate to the prime rate minus 1.25%. Under the original agreements, the Company was obligated to file a registration statement with the SEC by September 15, 2003 to register the Company’s common stock underlying the Laurus Facility. The Company was delinquent in filing such registration statement and was subject to potential liquidated damages as a result of this delinquency. As part of the Laurus Restructuring, the Company received a waiver from Laurus with respect to their rights and remedies for the failure to file the registration statement timely. In consideration for such waiver, the Company paid a penalty of $75,000. The Company further agreed with Laurus to reset the filing deadline for such registration statement and the date by which to have it declared effective by the SEC. Such registration statement was declared effective by the SEC on January 28, 2005. It is possible that the amended Laurus transaction may be integrated with the public offering of our Series A Preferred Stock and that such amended transaction, which occurred prior to the effective date of our registration statement, may be in violation of Section 5 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. We and our counsel believe that each of these transactions were exempt from registration, and that the amended Laurus transaction should not be integrated with the public offering of our Series A Preferred Stock. If it were ultimately determined that the amended transaction is required to be integrated with the public offering of our Series A Preferred Stock, Laurus may have the right to rescind such transaction and we may be liable for penalties and/or damages. Our Common Stock has a Small Public Float and Future Sales of Our Common Stock May Negatively Affect the Market Price of Our Common Stock. As of February 28, 2006, there were approximately 10.9 million shares of our common stock outstanding. As a group, our officers, directors, all preferred shareholders with common stock conversion rights and all other persons who beneficially own more than 10% of our total outstanding shares, would beneficially own on an as-converted basis an aggregate of approximately 13.5 million shares of our common stock. On an as-converted basis, our common stock would have a public float of approximately 4.2 million shares, which are shares in the hands of public investors, and which, as the term “public float” is defined by Nasdaq, excludes shares that are held directly or indirectly by our directors and executive officers or any other person who is the beneficial owner of more than 10% of our total shares outstanding. These shares are held by a relatively small number of shareholders of record (approximately 700). We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of shares of our common stock into the market, including those acquirable by the possible conversion of preferred shares into common shares, will have on the market price of our common stock. However, sales of substantial amounts of common stock, including shares issued upon the exercise of warrants and stock options and/or conversion of preferred stock into common stock, or the perception that such transactions could occur, may materially and adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. 17 If the Ownership of Our Common Stock Continues to be Highly Concentrated, it May Prevent You and Other Shareholders From Influencing Significant Corporate Decisions and May Result in Conflicts of Interest That Could Cause Our Stock Price to Decline. As of February 28, 2006, our executive officers, directors, major shareholders, and all Holders of Series A Preferred Stock (as described above) collectively beneficially own or control on an as-converted basis approximately 70% of our outstanding shares of common stock (after giving effect to the exercise of all outstanding vested options and warrants exercisable within sixty days from February 28, 2006). If these persons or entities were to act collectively in whole or in part or if Proha, as the majority shareholder decides to act on its own (as described above), they could control the outcome of corporate actions requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets, or any other significant corporate transactions. Some of these persons or entities may have interests different than yours. For example, these persons or entities could act to delay or prevent a change of control of us, even if such a change of control would benefit our other shareholders, or these persons or entities could pursue strategies that are different from the wishes of other investors. The significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock due to investors’ perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. Currently, the persons or entities identified above are not bound to act in concert with the following exception. On June 16, 2004, the Holders of the Series A Preferred Stock entered into a letter agreement with Proha Plc, our current majority shareholder, agreeing that for a period of two years commencing June 16, 2004, a nominating committee shall be the exclusive process by which independent directors are to be nominated for election to our board of directors. Each party agreed, either (i) to vote directly or indirectly in favor of a candidate so nominated by our board of directors through its nominating committee, or (ii) not to oppose either directly or indirectly any such candidate. Provisions of Delaware Law, Our Amended Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, Certain Voting Agreements and the Concentration of Stock Ownership Could Delay or Prevent a Change of Control Provisions of Delaware law, our amended certificate of incorporation and bylaws, certain voting agreements of our stockholders and the concentration of ownership of our stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include: • allowing our board of directors, subject to certain restrictions arising from the Preferred Series A Financing transaction described above in this prospectus, to authorize issuance of one or more classes or series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. • prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; • with respect to certain provisions of our amended certificate of incorporation, requiring a vote of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares to approve amendments; and • prohibiting stockholder actions by written consent. Because the Market for and Liquidity of Our Shares is Volatile and Limited, and Because We Are Subject to the “Penny Stock” Rules, the Level of Trading Activity in Our Stock May be Reduced. Effective June 29, 2001, our common stock was delisted from the Nasdaq National Market and is now quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board (“OTC BB”) (symbol AMSI). The OTC BB is generally considered to be a less efficient market than the established exchanges or the Nasdaq markets. While we anticipate seeking to be relisted on the Nasdaq National Market at some time in the future, it is impossible at this time to predict when, if ever, such application will be made or whether such application will be successful. While our common stock continues to be quoted on the OTC BB, an investor may find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the price of our common stock, compared to if our securities were traded on Nasdaq or a national exchange. In addition, our common stock is subject to certain rules and regulations relating to “penny stocks” (generally defined as any equity security that is not quoted on the Nasdaq Stock Market and that has a price less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exemptions). Broker-dealers who sell penny stocks are subject to certain “sales practice requirements” for sales in certain nonexempt transactions (i.e., sales to persons other than established customers and institutional “accredited investors”), including requiring delivery of a risk disclosure document relating to the penny stock market and monthly statements disclosing recent bid and offer quotations for the penny stock held in the account, and certain other restrictions. If the broker-dealer is the sole market maker, the broker-dealer must disclose this, as well as the broker-dealer’s presumed control over the market. For as long as our securities are subject to the rules on penny stocks, the liquidity of our common stock could be significantly limited. This lack of liquidity may also make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future. 18 Efforts to Reduce Our Expenses May Not Achieve Desired Results, and Could Diminish Our Ability to Retain and/or Recruit Employees. During the last few years, we have made great efforts to reduce our operating and other expenses. We cannot assure you that these expense reductions will have the desired result of enabling us to achieve profitability or that they will not have adverse affects on the Company. If planned revenue stability does not materialize, our business, financial condition and results of operation may be materially harmed. To manage operations effectively, we must continue to improve our operational, financial and other management processes and systems. Our success also depends on our ability to maintain high levels of employee utilization, project and instructional quality and competitive pricing for our software and services. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in maintaining the required levels of revenue with the current number of employees. As a result of our focus on reducing operating expenses over the past several years, we are dependent upon a smaller number of employees for our operations. If we are unable to recruit additional technical employees, we may be unable to adequately service current projects or bid for new projects or sales. If we are unable to recruit additional technical personnel when needed, we may not be able to expand or grow our business. We compete for the services of information technology professional with other consulting firms, software vendors and consumers of information technology services, many of which have greater financial resources than we have. We may not be successful in retaining and, as needed, hiring a sufficient number of information technology professionals to staff our projects. To attract qualified technical employees, we may need to substantially increase the compensation, bonuses, stock options or other benefits we offer to employees. These additional costs may negatively affect our business and operating results. Attacks by International Terrorists Could Cause Massive Disruptions to the World Economy or Regional Economies, Thereby Adversely Affecting Demand for Our Products and Adversely Impacting Our Revenue Streams. The attack on the World Trade Center in New York City, and in Washington, D.C. on September 11, 2001 caused an immediate negative affect on the global economy. While we cannot predict whether such massive acts of terror will occur again in the future, you should be cautioned that any similar or smaller acts of terrorism could have a material adverse affect on either the global economy or on at least regional economies throughout the world. This could adversely affect demand for our products and services and could severely diminish our revenue streams, which could cause the price of our common stock to significantly decline. 