ITEM 1A. Risk Factors RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We are dependent on the supply of fresh seafood in our production of processed seafood products and disruptions in the supply of fresh seafood could adversely affect our business operations. We use fresh seafood as the primary ingredient in our processed seafood products. Our processed seafood products accounted for approximately, 76.5%, 60.3% and 47.2% of our sales in the fiscal years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 respectively. Our production of processed seafood products is largely dependent on the continuous supply of fresh seafood, which in turn could be affected by a large number of factors, including environmental factors, the availability of seafood stock, weather conditions, the policies and regulations of the governments of the relevant territories where such fishing is carried out, the ability of the fishing companies and fishermen that supply us to continue their operations and pressure from environmental or animal rights groups. 29 Specifically, fishing activities in waters around the PRC are restricted in certain months to ensure sustainable aquatic resources. In particular, the PRC Ministry of Agriculture imposes restrictions against fishing in the South China Sea in the months of June and July. There is no assurance that the PRC government may not impose more stringent fishing regulations, including but not limited to longer or more frequent periods that restrict fishing. Such restrictions against fishing or unfavorable weather conditions have a direct impact on the availability of the raw materials required for the production of our processed seafood products, and could lead to a shortage and/or an increase in the prices of our raw materials. Any shortage in the supply of or increase in the prices of the raw materials for our processed seafood products will adversely affect our business, profitability and financial condition. Our profitability will be affected by fluctuations in the prices of our major raw materials. Our financial performance may be affected by changes in production costs brought about by fluctuations in the prices of our raw materials. Our major raw materials are fresh seafood which accounted for approximately 78.4%, 74.2% and 64.6% of our total cost of sales of processed seafood products in the fiscal years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 respectively. The prices of our major raw materials may fluctuate due to changes in supply and demand conditions. Any shortage in supply or upsurge in demand of our major raw materials may lead to an increase in prices, which may adversely affect our profitability due to increased production costs and lower profit margins. We are dependent on five major customers. In the event any one of these major customers ceases to purchase or reduce their purchases from us, and we are unable to secure new contracts, our sales will be adversely affected. Our top five major customers accounted for approximately 45.8%, 56.9% and 64.1% of our sales in the fiscal years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 respectively. In the event these and other major customers do not continue to purchase from us or reduce their purchases from us or develop their own ability to manufacture the products that we sell to them, and we are unable to secure new contracts or new customers that can replace the loss of these customers within a short time frame, our business and profitability will be affected. Please see the section “Major Customers” on Page 23 for more details. We are dependent on five major suppliers for our raw materials. In the event we are no longer able to secure raw materials from these suppliers and are unable to find alternative sources of supply at similar or more competitive rates, our operations and profitability will be adversely affected. For the production of our processed seafood products, we rely on our major suppliers for a significant portion of the supply of fresh seafood. Purchases from our top five suppliers of raw materials accounted for approximately 89.9%, 62.5% and 65.1% of our total purchases of raw materials in the fiscal years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 respectively. In the event that we are unable to secure our raw materials from these suppliers and we are unable to find alternative sources of supply at similar or more competitive rates, our business and operations will be adversely affected. Please see the section “Major Suppliers” on Page 23 for more details. A significant portion of our business activities is transacted in cash and our internal controls in relation to cash management may not be able to address all the risks associated with the handling of cash and cash transactions. Due to the nature of our business, our procurement of raw materials is fully transacted on a cash basis and a significant portion of our sales are transacted in cash. Our cash payment for the procurement of raw materials accounted for the whole of our total cost of sales for each of the fiscal years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. Starting from 2007, we have requested our major suppliers to open bank accounts and thus we could settle the purchases through bank instructions. Sales transacted in cash accounted for 1.6%, 42.9% and 25.8% of our total sales for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 respectively. The internal controls in relation to cash management that we have put in place may not be able to address all the risks associated with the handling of cash and cash transactions. We may therefore be exposed to risks such as loss, theft, misappropriation and forgery of the cash used in our transactions. In the event such risks materialize, our financial position, business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our profitability and continued growth is dependent on our ability to yield commercially viable products, to enhance our product range and expand our customer base. The seafood processing industry is highly competitive. The growth potential of the seafood processing industry is dependant on population growth and consumer preferences. therefore believe that our profitability and continued growth is dependant on our ability to expand our customer base in existing and new markets by introducing new products that are fast growing and profitable in the populations that we serve, as well as our ability to develop commercially viable products through our product development efforts. If we do not succeed in these efforts, the growth of our sales may slow down and adversely affect our profitability. Please refer to the section “Research and Development” on Page 26 for further details of our research and development efforts. 30 Since we do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers and customers there is no guarantee that our suppliers will continue to supply us with raw materials, or that our customers will continue to purchase our products. We do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers and our customers. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be able to obtain sufficient quantities of raw materials in a timely manner from our existing suppliers on acceptable terms, or that our existing customers will continue to purchase our products on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. In the event that we are unable to source for new suppliers or new customers on terms that are acceptable to us, our business and operations will be adversely affected. We may be exposed to potential risks relating to our internal controls over financial reporting and our ability to have those controls attested to by our independent auditors. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or SOX 404, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company’s internal controls over financial reporting in their annual reports, including Form 10-K. In addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing a company’s financial statements must also attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting as well as the operating effectiveness of the company’s internal controls. We were not subject to these requirements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006; accordingly, we have not evaluated our internal control systems in order to allow our management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, our internal controls as required by these requirements of SOX 404. Under current law, we will be subject to these requirements beginning with our annual report for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007. We can provide no assurance that we will comply with all of the requirements imposed thereby. There can be no assurance that we will receive a positive attestation from our independent auditors. In the event we identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls that we cannot remediate in a timely manner or we are unable to receive a positive attestation from our independent auditors with respect to our internal controls, investors and others may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. We currently lack an independent board of directors, which may result in the approval of transactions and policies without independent review. We currently do not have any independent directors on our board. However, we intend to appoint at least two within ninety days. In the absence of a majority of independent directors, our executive officers could establish policies and enter into transactions without independent review and approval thereof, subject to certain restrictions under our Articles of Incorporation. In addition, although we intend to establish audit and compensation committees which will consist entirely of outside directors, until those committees are established, transactions and compensation policies could be approved without independent review. These and other transactions could present the potential for a conflict of interest between our Company and its stockholders generally and the controlling officers, stockholders or directors. There is no assurance that we will be able to execute our future plans successfully, or that our future plans will result in commercial success. We intend to, inter alia and expand our operations and production capacity in the PRC by constructing new cold storage facilities and expanding our production facilities. Our expansion plans involve a number of risks, including inter alia the costs of investment in fixed assets, costs of working capital tied up in inventories, as well as other working capital requirements. Our expansion will also depend on our ability to secure new customers and/or sufficient orders. Failure to secure new customers or sufficient orders or to meet our customers’ orders would materially and adversely affect our business and financial performance. There is no assurance that our future plans will result in commercial success. If we are unable to execute our expansion plans successfully, our business and financial performance would be materially and adversely affected. Changes in consumer preferences or discretionary consumer spending could adversely impact our results. Our continued growth and success depends in part on the popularity of our products. Sales of our marine catch and processed seafood products as a percentage of our total sales for the period under review were as follows: Year ended December 31, Products 2007 2006 2005 (%) (%) (%) Marine catch 23.5 39.7 52.8 Processed seafood products 76.5 60.3 47.2 31 Shifts in consumer preferences or eating habits away from processed seafood products will materially affect our business. In addition, our continued success depends, in general, on the economic conditions, disposable income and consumer confidence in the countries in which we sell our products, all of which can affect discretionary consumer spending in such countries. Adverse changes in these factors would reduce the flow of customers and limit our pricing which will reduce our profitability. Our business activities are subject to certain laws and regulations and our operations may be affected if we should fail to have in force the requisite licenses and permits. We are required to obtain various licenses and permits in order to conduct our business of production and export of processed seafood products. These include the Hygiene Registration Certificate, which is a requirement in order to carry on the production of food products in the PRC, as well as the HACCP certificate and EU export registration, which is a requirement in order to export our processed seafood products to certain countries. Please see the section “Other Licenses and Permits” on Page 26 for further details. Our business is also subject to applicable laws and regulations. Please see the section “Government Regulations” of this Form 10-K for a summary of the material laws and regulations that apply to our Company. Any failure to comply with the conditions stipulated in our licenses and permits may lead to their revocation or non-renewal. Any failure to observe the applicable laws and regulations may lead to the termination or suspension of some or all of our business activities or penalties being imposed on us. The occurrence of any of these events may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our processed seafood products may be illegally tampered with such that they are rendered unfit for consumption and have to be recalled and destroyed. Our processed seafood products are packed in plastic materials that can be illegally tampered with. Illegal tampering of our processed seafood products could result in such products being rendered unfit for consumption or cause them to fail to meet customer specifications, health and/or safe handling requirements. This may lead to a loss of customer confidence in our products; affect our reputation, cause product recalls and/or product destruction. In addition, we may incur substantial litigation costs and may be ordered to compensate consumers in the event of any illness or death caused by the consumption of an illegally tampered seafood product. In the event that our processed seafood products are recalled or destroyed as a result of illegal tampering or a claim is made against us arising from the consumption of our products, our reputation, business goodwill and sales will be adversely affected. Product or raw material deterioration will lead to loss of sales, higher costs, negative publicity, and payment of compensation to our customers and/or product liability claims. Our raw materials and frozen processed seafood products, being perishable in nature, may deteriorate due to various reasons such as malfunctioning cold storage facilities, delivery delays or poor handling. This may lead to a delay in production or delivery of our products, a loss in revenue, costs incurred in the purchase of replacement raw materials and payment of compensation to our customers. Any deterioration in our raw materials or processed seafood products could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and reputation. Currently, we do not have any product liability insurance in respect of our products. We believe that premiums for product liability insurances are high compared to the risk of claims. In the event that the consumption of our processed seafood products causes harm, illness or death to a consumer of our products, whether as a result of product deterioration, spoiling, sabotage, willful action, omission or negligence, we may be liable to complaints, lawsuits and claims from consumers of our products which in turn could generate negative publicity and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and our operations. Outbreak of disease or widespread contamination in any of the raw materials that we use in our production or any food scares may lead to a loss in consumer confidence and reduce the demand for our processed seafood products. One of our competitive strengths is our established brand name and track record. We have received several awards and certificates for our high quality products, including the “Green Food” award. Any outbreak of disease or widespread contamination in any of the raw materials that we use in the production of our products or food scares in the markets in which our processed seafood products are manufactured or sold may have an adverse impact on our business as it may lead to a loss in consumer confidence and reduce the demand of our processed seafood products. It may also affect our sources of supply and we may have to look for alternative sources of supply which may be more costly, or which may not be available. If this develops into actual events, our operations and profitability will be adversely affected. Any failure to meet health and hygiene standards may result in the suspension of licenses, accreditations or the loss of our ability to import and export our products. We are subject to annual checks carried out by the General Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine of the PRC (CIQ). The CIQ’s annual check encompasses the inspection of food preparation, production and processing operations, as well as health checks on our employees. Failure to meet the required standards may result in our being required to take remedial measures to meet the health and hygiene standards, or in extreme cases, the cancellation or suspension of the license(s) and accreditation(s) required for us to carry on our operations. In the event that this should occur, our operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected and could lead to a loss in customer confidence in our products. 32 In addition, the CIQ makes random inspections on the processed seafood products that we export. Failure to meet the required standards of hygiene may affect our ability to export our processed seafood products and meet our customers’ orders on time. It may also lead to a restriction on our ability to export our processed seafood products which will materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operations. Our chartering agreements with owners of fishing vessels may be prematurely terminated, making it difficult for us to carry out our business operations. We have currently entered into agreements to charter six fishing vessels for our marine catch operations. Under these agreements, the owners of the fishing vessels are obliged and required, among other conditions, to procure and maintain the fishing licenses required to conduct the fishing of marine catch. Although our agreements are for various periods expiring between end 2007 and end 2009, there is a risk that these agreements may be prematurely terminated, for example, if the vessel owners fail to provide us with seaworthy vessels or fail to procure and maintain valid fishing licenses. There is also a risk that these owners will not renew or extend our chartering agreements upon expiry. If we are unable to enter into new chartering agreements on similar terms and on a timely basis, such premature termination or failure to renew or extend the agreements may have an adverse effect on the financial performance and prospects of our marine catch business. We bear the risk of loss in shipment of our products and have no insurance to cover such loss. Under the shipping terms of our standard customer contracts, we bear the risk of loss in shipment of our products and do not insure this risk. since management considers the risk of loss to be minimal, with export sales representing less than 1% of our total sales. Moreover, we believe that the shipping companies that we use carry adequate insurance or are sufficiently solvent to cover any loss in shipment. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that we will be adequately reimbursed upon the loss of a significant shipment of our products. We are dependent on our Executive Directors and Executive Officers. Any loss in their services without suitable replacement may adversely affect our operations. Our success to date has been largely due to the contribution of Pengfei Liu, our Executive Chairman and CEO. Mr. Liu is the founder of our Company, and has spearheaded our expansion and growth. He is responsible for our operations, marketing, public relations, strategic planning and development of new products and markets. Our continued success is dependent, to a large extent, on our ability to retain his services. The continued success of our business is also dependent on our key management and operational personnel such as our Deputy CEO and Executive Director, Shaobin Yang, and our other executive officers. We rely on their experience in the processed seafood and marine catch industry, product development, sales and marketing and on their relationships with our customers and suppliers. The loss of the services of any of our executive directors or executive officers without suitable replacement or the inability to attract and retain qualified personnel will adversely affect our operations and hence, our revenue and profits. We are dependent on our customers’ ability to maintain and expand their sales and distribution channels. Should these distributors be unsuccessful in maintaining and expanding their distribution channels, our results of operations will be adversely affected. Demand for our products from end-consumers and our prospects depend on the retail growth and penetration rate of our products to end-consumers. Sales of our products are conducted mainly through distributors, over whom we have limited control. As of December 31, 2007, our distribution network is comprised of 34 distributors located in five provinces. These distributors sub-distribute our dried processed seafood products to about 1,200 retail points, including major supermarkets. We are thus dependent on the sales and distribution channels of our distributors for broadening the geographic reach of our products. Should these distributors be unable to maintain and expand their distribution channels, our results of operations and financial position will be adversely affected. Failure to compete effectively in a competitive environment may affect our profitability. We operate in the highly competitive processed seafood industry. We believe that our major competitors include international and domestic seafood processors. Some of these competitors may have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources, stronger brand name recognition and larger existing customer base than we do. We also believe that these competitors may have the ability to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or may adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements or may devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sales of their products than us. 33 There is no assurance that we will be able to continue competing successfully against present and future competitors. We believe that important factors to achieving success in our industry include maintaining customer loyalty by cultivating long-term customer relationships, achieving consistent product renewal and maintaining the quality of our products. If we are unable to attain these, we may lose our customers to our competitors and this will adversely affect our market share. Increased competition may also force us to lower our prices, thus reducing our profit margins and affecting our financial performance and condition. Such competition may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Please refer to the section captioned “Competition” in this Form 10-K for further details as to our present competitors. Any outbreak of earthquake, tsunami, adverse weather or oceanic conditions or other calamities may result in disruption in our operations and could adversely affect our sales. We are based in Fujian Province which is situated in southeast China on the coast of the East China Sea. Fujian is a vital navigation hub between the East China Sea and South China Sea, and is also rich in agricultural and marine resources. Our main raw materials for our marine catch business come from the Taiwan Straight, which is also the place where we conduct our marine catch operations. In 2004, an undersea earthquake occurred off the west coast of Sumatra Indonesia. This earthquake triggered a series of devastating tsunamis along the costs of most landmasses boarding the Indian Ocean. More than 225,000 people in 11 countries were killed, and coastal communities were inundated with waves up to 100 feet. Due to the location of our business, we may be at risk of experiencing another tsunami, earthquake or other adverse weather or oceanic conditions. This may result in the breakdown of our facilities, such as our cold storage facilities, which will in turn lead to deterioration of our products with the potential for spoilage. This could adversely affect our ability to fulfill our sales orders and adversely affect our profitability. Adverse weather conditions affecting the fishing grounds where the fishing vessels chartered by us operate such as storms, cyclones and typhoons or cataclysmic events such as tsunamis may also decrease the volume of our fish catches or may even hamper our fishing operations. Our operations may also be adversely affected by major climatic disruptions such as El Nino which in the past has caused significant decreases in seafood catches worldwide. We are in the business of processing, distributing and selling processed seafood products and marine catch. Thus, a dramatic reduction in fish resources may adversely affect our business. We are in the business of processing, distributing, and selling processed seafood products, as well as selling marine catch. As such, 100% of our raw materials are obtained through the practice of fishing. Due to over-fishing, the stocks of certain species of fish may be dwindling and to counteract such over-fishing, governments may take action that may be detrimental to our ability to conduct our operations. If the solution proffered or imposed by the governments controlling the fishing grounds either restrict our ability to procure seafood supply or if such action limits the types, quantities and species of fish that we are able to procure or catch, our operations and prospects may be adversely affected. We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers which may cause us to make larger allowances for doubtful trade receivables or incur bad debt write-offs. Our customers may default on their payments to us. Although we review the credit risk of our customers regularly, such risks will nevertheless arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to anticipate or control, such as an economic downturn. Our trade receivables turnover days were approximately 27, 33 and 57 days in 2007, 2006 and 2005 respectively. Our allowances for doubtful trade receivables as at December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005 were approximately $21,000, $6,000 and $22,000 respectively, and in the range of 0.5% to 0.6% of our gross trade receivables. As a result of this credit risk exposure of our customers defaulting on their payments to us, we may have to make larger allowances for doubtful trade receivables or incur bad debt write-offs, both of which may have an adverse impact on our profitability. We may be subject to foreign exchange risk and may incur losses arising from exchange differences upon settlement. We sell our dried processed seafood products, frozen processed seafood products and marine catch mainly to local customers. Direct exports as a percentage of our sales ranged between 0.5% to 4.2% during the period under review. Our sales are denominated in RMB and US$, while our purchases are denominated in RMB. 34 For the period under review, the percentages of our sales denominated in RMB and US$ were as follows: Year ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (%) (%) (%) RMB 99.5 99.1 95.8 US$ 0.5 0.9 4.2 We may incur losses arising from exchange differences upon settlement. To the extent that our sales, purchases and expenses are not naturally matched in the same currency and there are timing differences between collections and payments, we will be exposed to any adverse fluctuations in the exchange rates between the various foreign currencies and the RMB. Any restrictions over the conversion or timing of conversion of foreign currencies may also expose us to adverse fluctuations in exchange rates. As a result, our earnings may be materially and adversely affected. On July 21, 2005, the Renminbi was unpegged against the US$ and pegged against a basket of currencies on a “managed float currency regime”. As at December 31, 2007, the closing exchange rate was approximately US$1.00 to RMB7.3141. There is no assurance that the PRC’s foreign exchange policy will not be further altered. In the event that the PRC’s policy is altered, significant fluctuations in the exchange rates of RMB against the US$ will arise. As a result we will be subject to significant foreign exchange exposure and in the event that we incur foreign exchange losses, our financial performance will be adversely affected. We currently do not have a formal hedging policy with respect to our foreign exchange exposure as our foreign exchange gains and losses over the past three fiscal years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 respectively, have been relatively low. We will continue to monitor our foreign exchange exposure in the future and will consider hedging any material foreign exchange exposure should the need arise. Please refer to the section “Foreign Exchange Exposure” of this Form 10-K for further details. Our products and brand name may be replicated or counterfeited which will in turn have an adverse effect on our Company and we may be affected by intellectual property rights disputes. We have registered certain trademarks in the PRC, details of which are set out in the section “Intellectual Property” on Page 25. Despite the protection of our trademark under the intellectual property laws of the PRC, such laws may not be adequate or effectively enforced against third parties who may violate our proprietary rights by illegally using our trademarks or our brand name. Our products and brand names may be replicated or counterfeited, which in turn may adversely affect our reputation and brand image. Policing unauthorized use of our trademarks or brand is difficult and costly, particularly in countries where the laws may not fully protect our proprietary rights. There can be no assurance that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate. Any unauthorized use of our trademarks and brand may damage our brand, recognition and reputation. This may lead to our customers losing confidence in our brand and products, which, in turn, may lead to a loss in our business and hence sales. RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA Our operations in the PRC are subject to the laws and regulations of the PRC and any changes in the laws or policies of the PRC may have a material impact on our operations and financial performance. As our processed seafood products and marine catch businesses are carried out in the PRC, we are subject to and have to operate within the framework of the PRC legal system. Any changes in the laws or policies of the PRC or the implementation thereof, for example in areas such as foreign exchange controls, tariffs, trade barriers, taxes, export license requirements and environmental protection, may have a material impact on our operations and financial performance. The corporate affairs of our companies in the PRC are governed by their articles of association and the corporate and foreign investment laws and regulations of the PRC. The principles of the PRC laws relating to matters such as the fiduciary duties of directors and other corporate governance matters and foreign investment laws in the PRC are relatively new. Hence, the enforcement of investors or shareholders' rights under the articles of association of a PRC company and the interpretation of the relevant laws relating to corporate governance matters remain largely untested in the PRC. 35 Introduction of new laws or changes to existing laws by the PRC government may adversely affect our business if stricter regulations are imposed on the overseas business practices of PRC companies Our operations are carried out through our wholly-owed subsidiaries which are located in the PRC. As such, the laws of the PRC govern our businesses and operations. The PRC legal system is a codified system of written laws, regulations, circulars, administrative directives and internal guidelines. The PRC government is still in the process of developing its legal system to encourage foreign investment and to align itself with global practices and standards. As the PRC economy is undergoing development at a faster rate than the changes to its legal system, some degree of uncertainty exists in connection with whether and how existing laws and regulations apply to certain events and circumstances. Some of the laws and regulations and the interpretation, implementation and enforcement of such laws and regulations are also at an experimental stage and are subject to policy changes. Hence, precedents on the interpretation, implementation and enforcement of certain PRC laws are limited and court decisions in the PRC do not have binding effect on lower courts. Accordingly, the outcome of dispute resolutions and litigation may not be as consistent or predictable as in other more developed jurisdictions and it may be difficult to obtain swift and equitable enforcement of the laws in the PRC, or to obtain enforcement of a judgment by a court or another jurisdiction. In particular, on August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory bodies, including the Ministry of Commerce (MOFCOM) and the China Securities Regulatory Commission (“CSRC”), jointly promulgated the new “Regulations on Foreign Investors Merging with or Acquiring Domestic Enterprises”, which took effect on September 8, 2006 (“2006 M&A Rules”). The 2006 M&A Rules regulate, inter alia, the acquisition of PRC domestic companies by foreign investors. On September 21, 2006, the CSRC promulgated the “Guidelines on Domestic Enterprises Indirectly Issuing or Listing and Trading their Stocks on Overseas Stock Exchanges” (the “CSRC Guidelines”). Under the 2006 M&A Rules and the CSRC Guidelines, the listing of overseas special purpose vehicles (“SPV”) which are controlled by PRC entities or individuals are subject to the prior approval of the CSRC. The 2006 M&A Rules and the CSRC Guidelines do not provide any express requirement for an SPV to retroactively obtain CSRC approval where the restructuring steps had been completed prior to September 8, 2006. Yuan Tai Law Offices, our Legal Adviser on PRC Law, is of the opinion that (i) we have obtained all the necessary governmental approvals from PRC authorities for the restructuring of our subsidiaries prior to September 8, 2006, (ii) we do not need to obtain CSRC approval and (iii) it is not necessary for us to comply retroactively with the requirement of obtaining the prior approval of the CSRC for our public listing in the U.S. There is no assurance that these PRC authorities will not issue further directives, regulations, clarifications or implementation rules requiring us to obtain further approvals in relation to our public listing in the U.S. PRC foreign exchange control may limit our ability to utilize our cash effectively and affect our ability to receive dividends and other payments from our PRC subsidiaries. Our PRC subsidiaries, which are foreign investment entities (“FIEs”), are subject to the PRC rules and regulations on currency conversion. In the PRC, the State Administration of Foreign Exchange (“SAFE”) regulates the conversion of the RMB into foreign currencies. Currently, foreign investment enterprises (including wholly foreign-owned enterprises) are required to apply to the SAFE for “Foreign Exchange Registration Certificates for FIEs”. With such registration certification (which have to be renewed annually), FIEs are allowed to open foreign currency accounts including the “current account” and “capital account”. Currently, transactions within the scope of the "current account" (for example, remittance of foreign currencies for payment of dividends) can be effected without requiring the approval of the SAFE. However, conversion of currency in the “capital account” (for example, for capital items such as direct investments, loans and securities) still requires the approval of the SAFE. Our PRC operating subsidiary Rixiang has obtained the "Foreign Exchange Registration Certificates for FIEs", which is subject to annual review. There is no assurance that the PRC regulatory authorities will not impose restrictions on the convertibility of the RMB for FIEs. In 2007 and 2006, approximately 99.5% and 99.1% of our sales respectively was denominated in RMB. As such, any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to utilize funds generated in the PRC to fund any potential business activities outside the PRC or to distribute dividends to our shareholders. Our subsidiaries, operations and significant assets are located outside the U.S. Shareholders may not be accorded the same rights and protection that would be accorded under the Securities Act. In addition, it could be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against our Directors and officers. Our subsidiaries, operations and assets are located in the PRC. Our subsidiaries are therefore subject to the relevant laws in the PRC. U.S. law may provide shareholders with certain rights and protection which may not have corresponding or similar provisions under the laws of the PRC. As such, investors in our common stock may or may not be accorded the same level of shareholder rights and protection that would be accorded under the Securities Act. In addition, all our current executive directors are non-residents of the U.S. and the assets of these persons are mainly located outside the U.S. As such, there may be difficulty for our shareholders to affect service of process in the U.S., or to enforce a judgment obtained in the U.S. against any of these persons. 36 We are subject to the PRC's environmental laws and regulations and in the event stricter rules are imposed to protect the environment, we may have to incur higher costs to comply with such rules. Our production facilities in the PRC will be subject to environmental laws and regulations imposed by the PRC authorities, inter alia, in respect of air protection, waste management and water protection. In the event stricter rules are imposed on air protection, waste management and water protection by the PRC authorities, we may have to incur higher costs to comply with such rules. Accordingly, our financial performance may be adversely affected. In addition, we require license for the discharge of pollutants for our operations, which is subject to annual review and renewal. In the event that we fail to renew our license with the relevant authority, our operations and financial performance will be adversely affected. The outbreak of avian influenza and/or other communicable diseases, if uncontrolled, could affect our financial performance and prospects. The avian influenza virus is a virus found chiefly in birds, but infections with these viruses can occur in humans. In January of 2004, the first case of the avian influenza was reported in Guangxi, Hunan and Hubei provinces. Later reports also came from Anhui, Liaoning, Shanghai and Guangdong provinces. As of August 2006, there have been 88 recorded outbreaks of the avian influenza in the PRC. Because our operations are carried out through our wholly-owned subsidiaries located in the PRC, the outbreak of avian influenza and/or other communicable diseases, if uncontrolled, can have an adverse effect on business sentiments and environment. In addition, if any of our employees, our customers or our suppliers, is affected by the outbreak of communicable diseases, it can adversely affect, among others, our operations, our customers' orders and our supply of raw materials. Accordingly, our sales and profitability will be materially and adversely affected. Changes in China’s political or economic situation could harm us and our operating results. Economic reforms adopted by the Chinese government have had a positive effect on the economic development of the country, but the government could change these economic reforms or any of the legal systems at any time. This could either benefit or damage our operations and profitability. Some of the things that could have this effect are: · Level of government involvement in the economy; · Control of foreign exchange; · Methods of allocating resources; · Balance of payments position; · International trade restrictions; and · International conflict. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, in many ways. As a result of these differences, we may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the Chinese economy were similar to those of the OECD member countries. The Chinese government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. Government action in the future may require us to divest ourselves of any interest we hold in Chinese properties. China only recently has permitted provincial and local economic autonomy and private economic activities. The Chinese government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to continue to operate in China may be affected by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of the jurisdictions in which we operate may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Accordingly, government actions in the future including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof, and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties or joint ventures. 37 Future inflation in China may inhibit our ability to conduct business in China. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and highly fluctuating rates of inflation. During the past ten years, the rate of inflation in China has been as high as 20.7% and as low as -2.2%. These factors have led to the adoption by the Chinese government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. High inflation may in the future cause the Chinese government to impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in China, and thereby harm the market for our products. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. The majority of our revenues will be settled in Renminbi and U.S. dollars, and any future restrictions on currency exchanged may limit our ability to use revenue generated in Renminbi to fund any future business activities outside China or to make dividend or other payments in the U.S. dollars. Although the Chinese government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the Renminbi for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that foreign-invested enterprises may only buy, sell or remit foreign currencies after providing valid commercial documents, at those banks in China authorized to conduct foreign exchange business. In addition, conversion of Renminbi for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to governmental approval in China, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. We cannot be certain that the Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi. The value of our securities will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and Renminbi. The value of our common stock will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and Renminbi, and between those currencies and other currencies in which our sales may be denominated. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for our operational needs and should the Renminbi appreciate against the U.S. dollar at that time, our financial position, the business of the company, and the price of our common stock may be harmed. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of declaring dividends on our common stock or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the Renminbi, the U.S. dollar equivalent of our earnings from our subsidiaries in China would be reduced. RISKS RELATED TO THE MARKET FOR OUR STOCK Pengfei Liu will have significant influence over the outcome of matters submitted to Shareholders for approval. Mr. Liu currently owns approximately 50.96% of our authorized share capital. As a result, he will be able to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the appointment of our directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions. His ownership and control may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a future change in control, impeding merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer. Our share price may be volatile, which can result in substantial losses for investors who purchase our common stock. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and can fluctuate significantly and rapidly in response to, inter alia, the following factors, some of which are beyond our control: · Variations in our operating results; · Success or failure of our management team in implementing business and growth strategies; · Gain or loss of an important business relationship or adverse financial performance by a significant customer or group of customers; · Changes in securities analysts’ recommendations, perceptions or estimates of our financial performance; · Changes in conditions affecting the seafood packaging and processing industry, the general economic conditions or stock market sentiments or other events or factors in the PRC; · Changes or developments in laws, regulations or taxes in the seafood processing and packaging industry in the PRC; · The temporary or permanent loss of our seafood processing and packaging facilities due to casualty, weather or any extended or extraordinary maintenance or inspection that may be required. · Changes in market valuations and share prices of companies with similar businesses that may be listed in the U.S. or anywhere else in the world; · Additions or departures of key personnel; 38 · Fluctuations in stock market prices and volume; or · Involvement in litigation. Additional funds raised through issue of new shares for our future growth will dilute Shareholders’ equity interests. Although we have identified our expansion plans as avenues to pursue growth in our business, we may also find other opportunities to grow, including acquisitions which cannot be predicted at this juncture. Under such circumstances, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. If new shares placed to new and/or existing shareholders are issued in the future, they may be priced at a discount to the then prevailing market price of our shares trading on the OTC Bulletin Board or any other stock exchanges, in which case, existing shareholders' equity interest will be diluted. If we fail to utilize the new equity to generate a commensurate increase in earnings, our earnings per share will be diluted and this could lead to a decline in our share price. Any additional debt financing may, apart from increasing interest expense and gearing, contain restrictive covenants with respect to dividends, future fund raising exercises and other financial and operational matters. Negative publicity may adversely affect our share price. One of our competitive strengths is our established brand name and track record. We have been involved in the production of processes seafood products since commencing our operations in 1994. Our “Mingxiang” brand has been conferred the “Famous Brand” award, and our products have received several other awards such as the “Green Food” award. Please see “Competition” on Page 20. We have also established a track record in the processed seafood industry which instills confidence in our products and attracts new customers from South Korea, Japan, Taiwan, Russia and Ukraine, as well as potential customers from the European Union. Negative publicity involving us, any of our directors or executive officers may adversely affect our stock market price whether or not such negative publicity is justified. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board which may have an unfavorable impact on our stock price and liquidity. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board under the symbol CMFO. The OTC Bulletin Board is a significantly more limited market than the New York Stock Exchange or NASDAQ system. The quotation of our shares on the OTC Bulletin Board may result in a less liquid market available for existing and potential stockholders to trade shares of our common stock, could depress the trading price of our common stock and could have a long-term adverse impact on our ability to raise capital in the future. Certain provisions of our Amended Articles of Incorporation may make it more difficult for a third party to effect a change- in-control. Our Amended Articles of Incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock. The preferred stock may be issued in one or more series, the terms of which may be determined at the time of issuance by our board of directors without further action by the stockholders. These terms may include voting rights including the right to vote as a series on particular matters, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion rights, redemption rights and sinking fund provisions. The issuance of any preferred stock could diminish the rights of holders of our common stock, and therefore could reduce the value of such common stock. In addition, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with, or sell assets to, a third party. The ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock could make it more difficult, delay, discourage, prevent or make it more costly to acquire or effect a change-in-control, which in turn could prevent the stockholders from recognizing a gain in the event that a favorable offer is extended and could materially and negatively affect the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments On January 11, 2008, we received a letter from the Securities & Exchange Commission (“SEC”) in regards to comments of the Form S-1 filed with the Commission on December 14, 2007. We made appropriate amendments pursuant to the letter from the SEC dated January 11, 2008 and filed with the Commission Form S-1 (Amendment No. 1) on February 5, 2008. On February 28, 2008, we received a letter from the SEC in regards to comments of the Form S-1 (Amendment No. 1) filed with the Commission on February 5, 2008. We made the appropriate amendments pursuant to the letter from the SEC dated February 28, 2008 and filed with the Commission Form S-1 (Amendment No. 2) on March 14, 2008. 39 ITEM 