Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Stockholders’ Matters Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information PART III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules SIGNATURES EXHIBIT INDEX EX-4.4 PRIVATE PLACEMENT MEMORANDUM SANTANDER BANCORP $50,000,000 6.10% SUBORDINATED NOTES EX-12 COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES EX-21 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT EX-31.1 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF THE CEO EX-31.2 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF THE COO EX-31.3 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF THE CAO EX-32.1 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF THE CEO, COO AND CAO 3 Table of Contents Santander BanCorp PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS General Santander BanCorp (the “Corporation”) is a publicly owned financial holding company, registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, (“BHC Act”) as amended and, accordingly, subject to the supervision and regulation by the Federal Reserve Board. The Corporation was incorporated under the laws of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico (“Puerto Rico” or the “Island”) to serve as the financial holding company for Banco Santander Puerto Rico (“Banco Santander” or the “Bank”). Banco Santander Central Hispano, S.A. (“Santander Spain”) currently owns 90.6% of the Corporation’s outstanding stock, directly and through its subsidiaries. Santander Spain (SAN.MC, STD.N) is the main financial group (“Santander Group” or “Group”) in Spain and Latin America, and the largest in the Euro Zone by market capitalization. It is the first Financial Group in Spain and Latin America and maintains an important business activity in Europe, where it reached a prominent presence in the United Kingdom through the acquisition of Abbey National. The Santander Group also owns the third largest banking group in Portugal and Santander Consumer Finance, a leading consumer finance franchise with presence in Germany, Italy and seven other European countries. In Latin America, the Santander Group is the leading banking franchise. In this region, the Group maintains a leading position where it manages over $140 billion in business volumes (loans, deposits and off-balance sheet items under management) has 4,000 offices in ten countries. The Corporation offers a full range of financial services through its subsidiaries Banco Santander Puerto Rico, Santander Securities Corporation, Santander Insurance Agency, Inc., Santander Mortgage Corporation, Santander International Bank of Puerto Rico, Inc. and Santander Asset Management Corporation. As of December 31, 2005, the Corporation had, on a consolidated basis, total assets of $8.3 billion, total loans of $6.0 billion, total deposits of $5.2 billion and stockholder’s equity of $568.5 million (refer to Note 2 of the consolidated financial statement). The Corporation also had $13.0 billion of customer financial assets under management. Banco Santander The Corporation’s main subsidiary, Banco Santander Puerto Rico, is one of the Island’s largest financial institutions (based on number of branches and customer deposits as reported with the SEC and the Office of the Commissioner of Financial Institutions of Puerto Rico) with a network of 64 branches and 149 ATMs, representing one of the largest branch franchises in Puerto Rico. As of December 31, 2005, the Bank had total assets of approximately $8.1 billion, total deposits of $5.2 billion and stockholders’ equity of $578.8 million. The Bank is a Puerto Rico chartered commercial bank subject to examination by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) and the Commissioner of Financial Institutions of Puerto Rico (“Commissioner”). It provides a wide range of financial products and services to a diverse customer base that includes small and medium-size businesses, large corporations and individuals. In addition, the Bank provides mortgage banking services through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Santander Mortgage Corporation (“Santander Mortgage”), which has ten offices in Puerto Rico. The Bank also provides specialized products and services to foreign customers through its wholly owned subsidiary, Santander International Bank of Puerto Rico, Inc. (“Santander International Bank”), an international banking entity organized under the International Banking Center Regulatory Act of Puerto Rico (“IBC Act”). 4 Table of Contents Santander Mortgage Since 1992, the Corporation has engaged in mortgage banking through Santander Mortgage. Santander Mortgage’s business principally consists in the origination and acquisition of loans secured by residential mortgages. Santander Mortgage is engaged in the origination of FHA-insured and VA-guaranteed single-family residential loans, which are primarily securitized into GNMA mortgage-backed securities and sold to institutional or private investors in the secondary market. Conventional loans that conform to the mortgage securitization programs of FNMA and FHLMC are generally pooled into FNMA and FHLMC mortgage-backed securities and sold to investors in the secondary market. Conventional loans that do not conform to the requirements of FNMA or FHLMC, so called non-conforming loans are generally sold to the Bank. Santander Mortgage complements its internal loan originations by purchasing FHA loans and VA loans from other mortgage bankers for resale to institutional investors and other investors in the form of GNMA mortgage-backed securities. Purchases of loans from other mortgage bankers in the wholesale loan market provide Santander Mortgage with a source of low cost production. Santander International Bank During the fourth quarter of 2001, the Corporation obtained regulatory approval to open an international banking entity, Santander International Bank, under the International Banking Center Regulatory Act of Puerto Rico (the “IBC Act”). Santander International Bank is a wholly owned subsidiary of Banco Santander and was created for the purpose of providing specialized products and services to foreign customers. Santander Securities Consistent with the strategy of providing fully integrated financial solutions for our clients, on December 30, 2003, the Corporation acquired Santander Securities Corporation (“Santander Securities”) and its subsidiary, Santander Asset Management Corporation, (“Santander Asset Management”) in a $62 million cash transaction. This acquisition has positioned the Corporation as a full service provider of a broad range of financial services under the Santander Group umbrella. The addition of Santander Securities Corporation is intended to further enhance the Corporation’s profitability through the cross-selling synergies it produces and our ability to better serve our clients. Santander Securities is the second largest securities broker-dealer (based on broker-dealer customer assets and mutual funds managed as reported with the SEC and the Office of the Commissioner of Financial Institutions of Puerto Rico) in Puerto Rico with approximately $8.1 billion in assets under management, composed of over $4.9 billion in customer assets at the retail broker-dealer and $3.2 billion in managed gross assets and institutional accounts at its wholly owned subsidiary, Santander Asset Management. Santander Securities has five offices island wide and an office in Miami, Fl. Santander Asset Management Corporation Santander Asset Management is a wholly owned subsidiary of Santander Securities created for the purpose of managing assets for Puerto Rico investment companies (mutual funds) and institutional accounts. The funds managed by Santander Asset Management invest primarily in fixed-income securities, including Puerto Rico and U.S. Government securities, mortgage- and asset-back securities and municipal obligations. Santander Asset Management also services its institutional accounts, which consist primarily of university endowments, insurance companies, governmental agencies, pension funds and individual investors. Santander Insurance Agency The Corporation’s subsidiary, Santander Insurance Agency (“Santander Insurance”) was established in October 2000 as the first financial holding company insurance operation to receive approval from the Commissioner of Insurance of Puerto Rico (“Insurance Commissioner”). This was a result of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (“Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act”) that authorized financial holding companies to enter into the insurance business. Santander Insurance Agency offers a growing base of products, including life, disability, unemployment and title insurance as a corporate agent, and also operates as a general agent offering bid, payment and performance bonds, and insurance to cover equipment and auto leases. Operations The Corporation operates a client-oriented, full-service bank, offering products and services in the areas of commercial, mortgage and consumer banking. Insurance, securities and asset management services are also offered through the Corporation’s various subsidiaries. The Corporation organizes its operations in four reportable segments: Commercial Banking, Mortgage Banking, Treasury and Investments and Broker-dealer. 5 Table of Contents While the Bank offers a wide variety of financial services to its customers, its primary products and services are grouped into the following categories: Commercial Banking. The Corporation’s integrated business model is built upon the strength of its commercial banking franchise and its distribution capabilities. This segment’s goal is to be an agile client-service organization with the primary focus on satisfying the total financial needs of its customers through specialized retail and wholesale banking services. These two units of the commercial banking segment are closely interrelated and are differentiated mostly by the composition of their respective client-bases. Retail Banking. The Retail Banking unit serves all individual clients and small-and medium-sized businesses with annual sales of under $5 million providing them with a full range of financial products and services through branches across Puerto Rico. Each branch represents an important vehicle for distributing the retail banking solutions. A well oriented branch’s personnel toward products knowledge promotes the effectiveness in coordinating cross selling and services delivery. Wholesale Banking. The Wholesale Banking unit serves institutional clients represented by the public sector, not-for-profit organizations and specialized industries such as universities, healthcare and financial institutions; corporate banking; and middle-market clients with annual sales of more than $5 million. This unit also houses certain specialized services such as construction, international commerce and cash management. Wholesale banking also calls into play the substantial resources of our worldwide operations, when such involvement is deemed appropriate or necessary to achieve the client’s financial objectives. Wholesale banking clients are offered a full array of commercial banking products and services, including cash management, bank card products, letters of credit and a variety of other foreign trade-related services. This unit works closely with retail banking branch personnel, due to its proximity to the individual business communities it serves. Mortgage Banking. Santander Mortgage the fifth largest mortgage loan originator (based on information on mortgage production obtained from the Office of the Commissioner of Financial Institutions of Puerto Rico) and servicer in Puerto Rico and the Bank’s mortgage-banking subsidiary, originates, sells, and services a variety of residential mortgage loans. Santander Mortgage sells mortgages to the Bank for its mortgage portfolio and to various other financial institutions through securitizations of conforming loans. Total mortgage loan originations amounted to $748.1 million in 2005, and the mortgage loan portfolio grew by 35%, reaching $2.2 billion by year-end. The accounting treatment by financial institutions in Puerto Rico of transfers of mortgage loans among such institutions is the subject of ongoing investigations by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC” or “Commission”) and other government agencies. In connection with the SEC’s investigation, the Corporation received a subpoena on December 8, 2005 concerning its mortgage loan transactions. On March 7, 2006, to correct certain errors in its accounting for such transactions, the Corporation restated its financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 and for the first, second and third quarters of 2004 and 2005. The cumulative effect of this restatement was a reduction of approximately $1.2 million, or 0.22%, in the Corporation’s common stockholder’s equity. See Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition. Treasury and Investments. The Corporation’s Treasury Department handles its investment portfolio and liquidity position. It also focuses on offering another level of financial service to our clients in the form of derivative instruments that can protect the owner of small and medium sized business from the impact of interest rate fluctuations. Broker-dealer. The Corporation’s Broker dealer segment includes the operations of its subsidiary Santander Securities. Santander Securities offers a complete range of products and services as part of an overall wealth management program that includes asset management and other trust services. The combination of Santander Asset Management products and Santander Securities’ distribution capabilities has allowed the Group to provide a diverse range of high quality investment alternatives in the Puerto Rico market. The principal offices of the Corporation are located at 207 Ponce de León Avenue, San Juan, Puerto Rico, and the main telephone number is (787) 777-4100. The Corporation’s Internet web site is http://www.santandernet.com. Recent Events On January 31, 2006, the Corporation entered into an asset purchase agreement to acquire substantially all of the assets and operations of the consumer finance business of Puerto Rico of Island Finance Puerto Rico, Inc. (“Island Finance PR”) and Island Finance Sales Finance Corporation (“Island Finance Sales” and, together with Island Finance PR, “Island Finance”) from Wells Fargo & Company (“Wells Fargo”). The assets of Island Finance acquired by the Corporation include approximately $633,968,022 in receivables generated by Island Finance’s consumer finance business in Puerto Rico. Island Finance provides consumer loans and real estate-secured loans in Puerto Rico, as well as sales finance contracts through retail merchants. The transaction was closed during the first quarter of 2006. On April 19, 2006, the Bank entered into an agreement with Doral Financial Corporation (“Doral”) pursuant to which, subject to the approval of the Boards of Directors of the Bank and Doral and the receipt of any required regulatory approvals, Doral shall reacquire from the Bank or one of its affiliates all the mortgage loans previously transferred by Doral to the Bank pursuant to the letter agreements between the parties dated February 3, 2004, May 3, 2004, December 17, 2004 and March 3, 2005. The reacquisition will occur on a date, not later than May 15, 2006 to be set at the mutual agreement of the parties (the “Closing Date”). The reacquisition price for these loans shall be equal to 99.125% of the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Loans plus accrued and unpaid interest on the Loans pursuant to the Prior Agreements through the Closing Date. As of the date of this annual report, the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Loans plus accrued and unpaid interest is approximately $618, 790, 233. Forward Looking Statements When used in this Form 10-K or future filings by Santander BanCorp with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in the Corporation’s press releases or other public or shareholder communications, or in oral statements made with the approval of an authorized executive officer, the word of phrases “would be”, “will allow”, “intends to”, “will likely result”, “are expected to”, “is anticipated”, “estimate”, “project”, “believe” , or similar expressions are intended to identify “forward looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. 6 Table of Contents The future results of the Corporation could be affected by subsequent events and could differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements. If future events and actual performance differ from the Corporation’s assumptions, the actual results could vary significantly from the performance projected in the forward-looking statements. The Corporation wishes to caution readers not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made, and to advise readers that various factors, including regional and national conditions, substantial changes in levels of market interest rates, credit and other risks of lending and investment activities, competitive and regulatory factors and legislative changes, could affect the Corporation’s financial performance and could cause the Corporation’s actual results for future periods to differ materially from those anticipated or projected. The Corporation does not undertake, and specifically disclaims any obligation, to update any forward-looking statements to reflect occurrences or unanticipated events or circumstances after the date of such statements. REGULATION AND SUPERVISION Holding Company Operations – Federal Regulation General Bank Holding Company Activities and Other Limitations. The Corporation is subject to ongoing regulation, supervision, and examination by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”), under the BHC Act, as amended by the Gramm-Leach-Bliley. As a bank holding company, the Corporation is required to file with the Federal Reserve periodic and annual reports and other information concerning its own business operations and those of its subsidiaries. In addition, under the provisions of the BHC Act, a bank holding company must obtain Federal Reserve Board approval before it acquires directly or indirectly ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of a second bank. Furthermore, Federal Reserve Board approval must also be obtained before such a company acquires all or substantially all of the assets of a second bank or merges or consolidates with another bank holding company. The Federal Reserve Board also has authority to issue cease and desist orders against holding companies and their non-bank subsidiaries. A bank holding company is prohibited under the BHC Act, with limited exceptions, from engaging, directly or indirectly, in any business unrelated to the business of banking, or of managing or controlling banks. One of the exceptions to these prohibitions permits ownership by a bank holding company of the shares of any company if the Federal Reserve, after due notice and opportunity for hearing, by regulation or order has determined that the activities of the company in question are so closely related to the business of banking or of managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. Under the Federal Reserve policy, a bank holding company such as the Corporation is expected to act as a source of financial strength to its main banking subsidiaries and to also commit support to them. This support may be required at times when, absent such policy, the bank holding company might not otherwise provide such support. In the event of a bank holding company’s bankruptcy, any commitment by the bank holding company to the federal bank regulatory agency to maintain capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and be entitled to a priority of payment. In addition, any capital loans by a bank holding company to any of its subsidiary banks must be subordinated in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary bank. The Bank is currently the only depository institution subsidiary of the Corporation. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the regulation enacted and promulgated under the Act have revised and expanded the existing provisions of the BHC Act by permitting a bank holding company to elect to become a financial holding company to engage in a full range of financial activities. The qualification requirements provide that in order for a bank holding company to elect to be treated as a financial holding company (and to maintain such treatment) all the subsidiary banks controlled by the bank holding company at the time of election to become a financial holding company must be and remain at all times well capitalized and well managed. On May 15, 2000, the Corporation elected to become a financial holding company under the provisions of the Gramm-Leach Bliley Act. Financial holding companies may engage, directly or indirectly, in any activity that is determined to be (i) financial in nature, (ii) incidental to such financial activity, or (iii) complementary to a financial activity and does not pose a substantial risk to the safety and soundness of depository institutions or to the financial system generally. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, specifically provides that the following activities have been determined to be “financial in nature”: (a) Lending, trust and other banking activities; (b) Insurance activities; (c) Financial or economic advice or services; (d) Pooled investments; (e) Securities underwriting and dealing; (f) Existing bank holding company domestic activities; (g) Existing bank holding company foreign activities; and (h) Merchant banking activities. Santander Insurance Agency, which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the 7 Table of Contents Corporation, offers insurance agency services. Santander Securities, which is also a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Corporation, offers securities brokerage, dealing and underwriting services. In addition, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act specifically gives the Federal Reserve the authority, by regulation or order, to expand the list of “financial” or “incidental” activities, but requires consultation with the U.S. Treasury, and gives the Federal Reserve authority to allow a financial holding company to engage in any activity that is “complementary” to a financial activity and does not “pose a substantial risk to the safety and soundness of depository institutions or the financial system generally.” Under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, if the Corporation fails to meet any of the requirements for being a financial holding company and is unable to cure such deficiencies within certain prescribed periods of time, the Federal Reserve Board could require the Corporation to divest control of its depository institution subsidiaries or alternatively cease conducting financial activities that are not permissible for bank holding companies that are not financial holding companies. USA Patriot Act of 2001 Under Title III of the USA Patriot Act of 2001 (the “USA Patriot Act”), also known as the International Money Laundering Abatement and Anti-Terrorism Financing Act of 2001, all financial institutions, including the Corporation and the Bank, are required in general to identify their customers, adopt formal and comprehensive anti-money laundering programs, scrutinize or prohibit altogether certain transactions of special concern, and be prepared to respond to inquiries from U.S. law enforcement agencies concerning their customers and their transactions. Additional information-sharing among financial institutions, regulators, and law enforcement authorities is encouraged by the presence of an exemption from the privacy provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act for financial institutions that comply with this provision and the authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury to adopt rules to further encourage cooperation and information-sharing. The U.S. Treasury Department (“Treasury”) has issued a number of regulations implementing the USA Patriot Act that apply certain of its requirements to financial institutions. The regulations impose new obligations on financial institutions to maintain appropriate policies, procedures and controls to detect, prevent and report money laundering and terrorist financing. Treasury is expected to issue a number of additional regulations that will further clarify the USA Patriot Act’s requirements. Failure of a financial institution to comply with the USA Patriot Act’s requirements could have serious legal and reputational consequences for the institutions. The Corporation and the Bank have adopted appropriate policies, procedures and controls to address compliance with the USA Patriot Act under existing regulations, and will continue to revise and update their policies, procedures and controls to reflect changes required by the USA Patriot Act and Treasury’s regulations. The Corporation believes that the cost of compliance with Title III of the USA Patriot Act is not likely to be material to the Corporation. Privacy Policies Under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, all financial institutions are required to adopt privacy policies, restrict the sharing of nonpublic customer data with nonaffiliated parties at the customer’s request and establish policies and procedures to protect customer data from unauthorized access. The Corporation and its subsidiaries have adopted policies and procedures in order to comply with the privacy provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the regulations issued thereunder. Dividend Restrictions The Corporation is subject to certain restrictions generally imposed on Puerto Rico corporations (i.e., that dividends may be paid out only from the Corporation’s net assets in excess of capital or in the absence of such excess, from the Corporation’s net earnings for such fiscal year and/or the preceding fiscal year). The Federal Reserve Board has also issued a policy statement that provides that bank holding companies should generally pay dividends only out of current operating earnings. At present, the principal source of funds for the Corporation is dividends declared and paid by the Bank. The ability of the Bank to declare and pay dividends on its common stock is restricted by the Puerto Rico Banking Law (the “Banking Law”), the Federal Deposit Insurance Act and FDIC regulations. In general terms, the Banking Law provides that when the expenditures of a bank are greater than receipts, the excess of expenditures over receipts shall be charged against undistributed profits of the bank and the balance, if any, shall be charged against the required reserve fund of the bank. If there is no sufficient reserve fund to cover such balance in whole or in part, the outstanding amount shall be charged against the bank’s capital account. The Banking Law provides that until said capital has been restored to its original amount and the reserve fund to 20% of the original capital, the bank may not declare any dividends. 8 Table of Contents In general terms, the Federal Deposit Insurance Act and the FDIC regulations restrict the payment of dividends when a bank is undercapitalized, when a bank has failed to pay insurance assessments, or when there are safety and soundness concerns regarding such bank. Federal Home Loan Bank System Banco Santander is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) system. The FHLB system consists of twelve regional Federal Home Loan Banks governed and regulated by the Federal Housing Finance Board (FHFB). The Federal Home Loan Banks serve as reserve or credit facilities for member institutions within their assigned regions. They are funded primarily from proceeds derived from the sale of consolidated obligations of the FHLB system, and they make loans (advances) to members in accordance with policies and procedures established by the FHLB system and the boards of directors of each regional FHLB. The Bank is a member of the FHLB of New York and as such is required to acquire and hold shares of capital stock in that FHLB in an amount equal to the greater of 1.0% of the aggregate principal amount of its unpaid residential mortgage loans, home purchase contracts and similar obligations at the beginning of each year, 5.0% of its FHLB advances outstanding or 1.0% of 30.0% of total assets. The Bank is in compliance with the stock ownership rules described above with respect to such advances, commitments and letters of credit and home mortgage loans and similar obligations. All loans, advances and other extensions of credit made by the FHLB-NY to the Bank are secured by a portion of the Bank’s mortgage loan portfolio, certain other investments and the capital stock of the FHLB-NY held by the Bank. As of December 31, 2005 the Bank had $41.9 million in FHLB’s capital stock. Limitations on Transactions with Affiliates Transactions between financial institutions such as the Bank and any affiliate are governed by Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act. An affiliate of a financial institution is any company or entity, which controls, is controlled by or is under common control with the financial institution. In a holding company context, the parent bank holding company and any companies which are controlled by such parent holding company (or by the ultimate parent company of such bank holding company) are affiliates of the financial institution. Generally, Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act (i) limit the extent to which the financial institution or its subsidiaries may engage in “covered transactions” with any one affiliate to an amount equal to 10% of such institution’s capital stock and surplus, and contain an aggregate limit on all such transactions with all affiliates to an amount equal to 20% of such institution’s capital stock and surplus and (ii) require that all such transactions be on terms substantially the same, or at least as favorable, to the institution or subsidiary as those provided to a non-affiliate. The term “covered transaction” includes the making of loans, purchase of assets, issuance of a guarantee and other similar transactions. In addition, loans or other extensions of credit by the financial institution to the affiliate are required to be collateralized in accordance with the requirements set forth in Section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act amended several provisions of section 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act. The amendments provide that financial subsidiaries of banks are treated as affiliates for purposes of sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, but the amendment provides that (i) the 10% capital limit on transactions between the bank and such financial subsidiary as an affiliate is not applicable, and (ii) the investment by the bank in the financial subsidiary does not include retained earnings in the financial subsidiary. Certain anti-evasion provisions have been included that relate to the relationship between any financial subsidiary of a bank and sister companies of the bank: (1) any purchase of, or investment in, the securities of a financial subsidiary by any affiliate of the parent bank is considered a purchase or investment by the bank; or (2) if the Federal Reserve determines that such treatment is necessary, any loan made by an affiliate of the parent bank to the financial subsidiary is to be considered a loan made by the parent bank. The Federal Reserve has adopted a new regulation, Regulation W, effective April 1, 2003, that deals with the provisions of Sections 23A and 23B. The regulation unifies and updates staff interpretations issued over the years, incorporates several new interpretations and provisions (such as to clarify when transactions with an unrelated third party will be attributed to an affiliate), and addresses new issues arising as a result of the expanded scope of nonbanking activities engaged in by banks and bank holding companies in recent years and authorized for financial holding companies under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. In addition, Sections 22(h) and (g) of the Federal Reserve Act place restrictions on loans to executive officers, directors and principal stockholders. Under Section 22(h) of the Federal Reserve Act loans to a director, an executive officer and to a greater than 10% stockholder of a financial institution, and certain affiliated interests of these, may not exceed, together with all other outstanding loans to such person and affiliated interests, the financial institution’s loans to one borrower limit, generally equal to 15% of the institution’s unimpaired capital and surplus. Section 22(h) of the Federal Reserve Act also requires that loans to directors, executive officers and principal stockholders be made on terms substantially the same as offered in comparable transactions to other persons and also requires prior board approval for certain loans. In addition, the aggregate amount of 9 Table of Contents extensions of credit by a financial institution to insiders cannot exceed the institution’s unimpaired capital and surplus. Furthermore, Section 22(g) of the Federal Reserve Act places additional restrictions on loans to executive officers. Capital Requirements The Federal Reserve has adopted capital adequacy guidelines pursuant to which it assesses the adequacy of capital in examining and supervising a bank holding company and in analyzing applications to it under the BHC Act. The Federal Reserve capital adequacy guidelines generally require bank holding companies to maintain total capital equal to 8% of total risk-adjusted assets, with at least one-half of that amount consisting of Tier I or core capital and up to one-half of that amount consisting of Tier II or supplementary capital. Tier I capital for bank holding companies generally consists of the sum of common stockholders’ equity and perpetual preferred stock, subject in the case of the latter to limitations on the kind and amount of such perpetual preferred stock which may be included as Tier I capital, less goodwill and, with certain exceptions, intangibles. Tier II capital generally consists of hybrid capital instruments, perpetual preferred stock which is not eligible to be included as Tier I capital; term subordinated debt and intermediate-term preferred stock; and, subject to limitations, generally allowances for loan losses. Assets are adjusted under the risk-based guidelines to take into account different risk characteristics, with the categories ranging from 0% (requiring no additional capital) for assets such as cash to 100% for the bulk of assets which are typically held by a bank holding company, including multi-family residential and commercial real estate loans, commercial business loans and commercial loans. Off-balance sheet items also are adjusted to take into account certain risk characteristics. In addition to the risk-based capital requirements, the Federal Reserve requires bank holding companies to maintain a minimum leverage capital ratio of Tier I capital to total assets of 3.0%. Total assets for purposes of this calculation do not include goodwill and any other intangible assets and investments that the Federal Reserve determines should be deducted from Tier I capital. The Federal Reserve has announced that the 3.0% Tier I leverage capital ratio requirement is the minimum for the top-rated bank holding companies without supervisory, financial or operational weaknesses or deficiencies or those which are not experiencing or anticipating significant growth. Other bank holding companies will be expected to maintain Tier I leverage capital ratios of at least 4.0% or more, depending on their overall condition. As of December 31, 2005, the Corporation exceeded each of its capital requirements and was a well-capitalized institution as defined in the Federal Reserve regulations. Sarbanes-Oxley The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOA”) was enacted to address corporate and accounting fraud. SOA contains reforms of various business practices and numerous aspects of corporate governance. Most of these requirements have been implemented pursuant to regulations issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The following is a summary of certain key provisions of SOA. SOA provides for the establishment of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) that enforces auditing, quality control and independence standards and is funded by fees from all publicly traded companies. SOA imposed higher standards for auditor independence and restricts provision of consulting services by auditing firms to companies they audit. Any non-audit services being provided to a public company audit client require pre-approval by the company’s audit committee. In addition, SOA makes certain changes to the requirements for partner rotation after a period of time. SOA requires chief executive officers and chief financial officers, or their equivalent, to certify to the accuracy of periodic reports filed with the SEC, subject to civil and criminal penalties if they knowingly or willingly violate this certification requirement. In addition, counsel is required to report evidence of a material violation of the securities laws or a breach of fiduciary duties to its chief executive officer or its chief legal officer, and, if such officer does not appropriately respond, to report such evidence to the audit committee or other similar committee of the board of directors or the board itself. Under this law, longer prison terms apply to corporate executives who violate federal securities laws; the period during which certain types of suits can be brought against a company or its officers is extended and bonuses issued to top executives prior to restatement of a company’s financial statements are now subject to disgorgement if such restatement was due to corporate misconduct. Executives are also prohibited from insider trading during retirement plan “blackout” periods, and loans to company executives (other than loans by financial institutions permitted by federal rules or regulations) are restricted. In addition, the legislation accelerated the time frame for disclosures by public companies, as they must immediately disclose any material changes in their financial condition or operations. Directors and executive officers required to report changes in ownership in a company’s securities must now report within two business days of the change. SOA also increased responsibilities and codified certain requirements relating to audit committees of public companies and how they interact with the company’s registered public accounting firm. Audit committee members must be independent and are barred from accepting consulting, advisory or other compensatory fees from the issuer. In addition, companies are required 10 Table of Contents to disclose whether at least one member of the committee is a “financial expert” (as such term will be defined by the SEC) and if not, why not. Audit committees of publicly traded companies have authority to retain their own counsel and other advisors funded by the company. Audit committees must establish procedures for receipt, retention and treatment of complaints regarding accounting and auditing matters and procedures for confidential, anonymous submission of employee concerns regarding questionable accounting or auditing matters. It is the responsibility of the audit committee to hire, oversee and work on disagreements with Company’s independent auditor. A company’s registered public accounting firm is prohibited from performing statutorily mandated audit services for a company if the company’s chief executive officer, chief financial officer, controller, chief accounting officer or any person serving in equivalent positions had been employed by such firm and participated in the audit of such company during the one-year period preceding the audit initiation date. SOA also prohibits any officer or director of a company or any other person acting under their direction from taking any action to fraudulently influence, coerce, manipulate or mislead any independent public or certified accountant engaged in the audit of the company’s financial statements for the purpose of rendering the financial statements materially misleading. SOA also has provisions related to inclusion of internal control report and assessment by management in the annual report to stockholders. The law also requires the company’s registered public accounting firm that issues the audit report to attest to and report on management’s assessment of the company’s internal controls. In addition, SOA requires that each financial report required to be prepared in accordance with (or reconciled to) generally accepted accounting principles and filed with the SEC reflect all material correcting adjustments that are identified by a registered public accounting firm in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and rules and regulations of the SEC. Banking Operations General Banks are extensively regulated under federal and state law. References under this heading to applicable statutes or regulations are brief summaries of portions thereof which do not purport to be complete and which are qualified in their entirety by reference to those statutes and regulations. Any change in applicable laws or regulations may have a material adverse effect on the business of commercial banks and bank holding companies, including the Corporation, the Bank or Santander Central Spain. However, management is not aware of any current recommendations by any federal or state regulatory authority that, if implemented, would have or would be reasonably likely to have a material effect on the liquidity, capital resources or operations of the Bank or the Corporation. The Bank is incorporated under the Banking Law of Puerto Rico, a “state bank” and an “insured depository institution” under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (“FDIA”), and a “foreign bank” within the meaning of the International Banking Act of 1978 (“IBA”). The Bank is subject to extensive regulation and examination by the Commissioner, the FDIC, and certain requirements established by the Federal Reserve. The federal and Puerto Rico laws and regulations that apply to banks regulate, among other things, the scope of their business, their investments, their reserves against deposits, the timing of the availability of deposited funds and the nature and amount of and collateral for certain loans. In addition to the impact of regulation, commercial banks are affected significantly by the actions of the Federal Reserve as it attempts to control the money supply and credit availability in order to influence the economy. As a creditor and financial institution, the Bank is subject to certain regulations promulgated by the Federal Reserve, including, without limitation, Regulation B (Equal Credit Opportunity Act), Regulation DD (Truth in Savings Act), Regulation E (Electronic Funds Transfer Act), Regulation F (Limits on Exposure to Other Banks), Regulation Z (Truth in Lending Act), Regulation CC (Expedited Funds Availability Act), Regulation X (Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act), Regulation BB (Community Reinvestment Act) and Regulation C (Home Mortgage Disclosure Act). There are periodic examinations by the Commissioner and the FDIC to test the Bank’s compliance with various statutory and regulatory requirements. This regulation and supervision establishes a comprehensive framework of activities in which an institution can engage and is intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and depositors. The regulatory structure also gives the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies, including policies with respect to the classification of assets and the establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes. This enforcement authority includes, among other things, the ability to assess civil money penalties, to issue cease-and-desist or removal orders and to initiate injunctive actions against banking organizations and institution-affiliated parties, as defined. In general, these enforcement actions may be initiated for violations of laws and regulations and unsafe or unsound practices. In addition, certain actions are required by statute and implementing regulations. Other actions or inaction may provide the basis for enforcement action, including misleading or untimely reports filed with regulatory authorities. 11 Table of Contents Any change in statutory and regulatory requirements whether by the Commissioner, the FDIC or the U.S. Congress or Puerto Rico legislature could have a material adverse impact on the Corporation, the Bank and their operations. The Corporation cannot determine the ultimate effect of such potential legislation, if enacted, or implementing regulations, would have upon the Corporation’s final condition or results of operations. Ownership and Control Because of the Bank’s status as a bank, owners of the common stock are subject to certain restrictions and disclosure obligations under various federal laws, including the BHC Act and the Change in Bank Control Act (the “CBCA”). Regulations pursuant to the BHC Act generally require prior Federal Reserve approval for an acquisition of control of an insured institution (as defined) or holding company thereof by any person (or persons acting in concert). Control is deemed to exist if, among other things, a person (or persons acting in concert) acquires more than 25% of any class of voting stock of an insured institution or holding company thereof. Control is presumed to exist subject to rebuttal, if a person (or persons acting in concert) acquires more than 10% of any class of voting stock and either (i) the company has registered securities under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or (ii) no person will own, control or hold the power to vote a greater percentage of that class of voting securities immediately after the transaction. The concept of acting in concert is very broad and also is subject to certain rebuttable presumptions, including among others, that relatives, business partners, management officials, affiliates and others are presumed to be acting in concert with each other and their businesses. The FDIC’s regulations implementing the CBC Act are generally similar to those described above. The Banking Law requires the approval of the Commissioner for changes in control of a Puerto Rico bank. See “Banking Operations-Puerto Rico Regulation.” FDIC Capital Requirements Under authority granted in the FDIA, the FDIC has promulgated regulations and adopted a statement of policy regarding the capital adequacy of state-chartered banks that are not members of the Federal Reserve System. For purposes of the FDIA, Puerto Rico is treated as a state and the Bank as such is a state-chartered non-member bank. The FDIC’s capital regulations establish a minimum leverage capital requirement for state-chartered non-member banks. For the most highly-rated banks the requirement is 4% Tier I capital, with an additional cushion of at least 100 to 200 basis points for all other state-chartered, nonmember banks, which effectively increases the minimum Tier I leverage ratio for such other bank from 4% to 5% or more. Under the FDIC’s regulations, the highest-rated banks are those that the FDIC determines are not anticipating or experiencing significant growth and have well diversified risk, including no undue interest rate risk exposure, excellent asset quality, high liquidity, good earnings and, in general, which are considered a strong banking organization and are rated composite 1 under the Uniform Financial Institutions Rating System. Tier I leverage or core capital is defined as the sum of common stockholders’ equity (including retained earnings), noncumulative perpetual preferred stock and related surplus, and minority interests in consolidated subsidiaries, minus all intangible assets other than certain qualifying supervisory goodwill and certain purchased mortgage servicing rights. The FDIC also requires that state-chartered nonmember banks meet a risk-based capital standard. The risk-based capital standard requires the maintenance of total capital (which is defined as Tier I capital plus supplementary (Tier II) capital) to risk weighted assets of 8%. Under the standards the FDIC applies, the Bank’s assets are assigned weights of 0% to 100% based upon credit and certain other risks it believes are inherent in the type of asset or item. The components of Tier I capital are equivalent to those discussed above under the 4% leverage capital standard. The components of supplementary capital include certain perpetual preferred stock, certain mandatory convertible securities, certain subordinated debt and intermediate preferred stock and general allowances for loan losses. Allowance for loan losses included in supplementary capital is limited to a maximum of 1.25% of risk-weighted assets. Overall, the amount of capital counted toward supplementary capital cannot exceed 100% of core capital. As of December 31, 2005, the Bank exceeded each of its core capital requirements and was a well-capitalized institution as defined in the FDIC regulations. In August 1995, the FDIC and other federal banking agencies published a final rule modifying their existing risk-based capital standards to provide for consideration of interest rate risk when assessing the capital adequacy of a bank. Under the final rule, the FDIC must explicitly include a bank’s exposure to declines in the economic value of its capital due to changes in interest rates as a factor in evaluating a bank’s capital adequacy. In June 1996, the FDIC and other federal banking agencies adopted a joint policy statement on interest rate risk policy. Because market conditions, bank structure, and bank activities vary, the agencies concluded that each bank needs to develop its own interest rate risk management program tailored to its needs and circumstances. The policy statement describes prudent principles and practices that are fundamental to sound interest rate risk management, including appropriate board and senior management oversight and comprehensive risk management process that effectively identifies, measures, monitors and controls such interest rate risk. 12 Table of Contents Failure to meet capital guidelines could subject an insured bank like the Bank to a variety of prompt corrective actions and enforcement remedies under the FDIA (as amended by FDICIA), including, with respect to an insured bank, the termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC, and to certain restrictions on its business. In general terms, undercapitalized depository institutions are prohibited from making any capital distributions (including dividends), are subject to restrictions on borrowing from the Federal Reserve System, and are subject to growth limitations and are required to submit capital restoration plans. At December 31, 2005, the Bank was well capitalized. Like any other institution, the Bank’s capital category, as determined by applying the prompt corrective action provisions of law, may not constitute an accurate representation of the overall financial condition or prospects of the Bank, and should be considered in conjunction with other available information regarding the Bank’s financial condition and results of operations. Cross-Guarantees Under the FDIA, a depository institution (which term includes both banks and savings associations), the deposits of which are insured by the FDIC, can be held liable for any loss incurred by, or reasonably expected to be incurred by, the FDIC in connection with (i) the default of a commonly controlled FDIC-insured depository institution or (ii) any assistance provided by the FDIC to any commonly controlled FDIC-insured depository institution “in danger of default.” “Default” is defined generally as the appointment of a conservator or a receiver and “in danger of default” is defined generally as the existence of certain conditions indicating that a default is likely to occur in the absence of regulatory assistance. In some circumstances (depending upon the amount of the loss or anticipated loss suffered by the FDIC), cross-guarantee liability may result in the ultimate failure or insolvency of one or more insured depository institution to its parent company is subordinated to the subsidiary bank’s cross-guarantee liability with respect to commonly controlled insured depository institutions. The Bank is currently the only FDIC insured depository institution controlled by Santander Central Spain. FDIC Deposit Insurance Assessments The deposits of the Bank are federally insured in accordance with the rules of the FDIC and the Bank is a member of the Bank Insurance Fund (“BIF”). Because of prior mergers, the Bank pays deposit insurance assessments on a pro rated basis, using a formula established by FDIC regulations that relates the deposit assessment base to the deposits that originated in particular merged institutions, to both the BIF and the Savings Association Insurance Fund (“SAIF”). As of December 31, 2005, the Bank had a BIF deposit assessment base of approximately $4.8 billion, and a SAIF deposit assessment base of approximately $0.8 billion. Pursuant to certain provisions of FDICIA, the FDIC has adopted a risk-based assessment system, under which the deposit insurance assessment rate for an insured depository institution varies according to the level of risk incurred in its activities. An institution’s risk category is based partly upon whether the institution is well capitalized, adequately capitalized or less than adequately capitalized. Each insured depository institution is also assigned to one of the following “supervisory subgroups”: “A”, “B” or “C”. Group “A” institutions are financially sound institutions with only a few minor weaknesses; Group “B” institutions are institutions that demonstrate weaknesses that, if not corrected, could result in significant deterioration; and Group “C” institutions are institutions for which there is a substantial probability that the FDIC will suffer a loss in connection with the institution unless effective action is taken to correct the areas of weakness. The Bank was classified as a well-capitalized institution as of December 31, 2005. The supervisory subgroup to which an institution is assigned is considered confidential by the FDIC. On June 30, 1996, the Deposit Insurance Funds Act of 1996 (“DIFA”) was enacted and signed into law as part of the Economic Growth and Regulatory Paperwork Reduction Act of 1996. DIFA established the framework for the eventual merger of the BIF and the SAIF into a single Deposit Insurance Fund. It repealed the statutory minimum premium and, under implementing FDIC regulations promulgated in 1997, premiums assessed by both the BIF and the SAIF are to be assessed using the matrix described above at a rate between 0 cents and 27 cents per $100 of deposits. That is a temporary rate schedule that would automatically increase by 4 cents across the board if the BIF’s designated reserve ratio fell below the FDIA statutory target ratio. DIFA also separated, effective January 1, 1997, the Financing Corporation (“FICO”) assessment to service interest on its bond obligations from the BIF and SAIF assessments. The amount assessed on individual institutions by the FICO were in addition to the amount, if any, paid for deposit insurance according to the FDIC’s risk-related assessment rate schedules. The FICO rate on BIF-assessable deposits was one-fifth the rate on SAIF-assessable deposits until the insurance funds were merged. The current FICO annual assessment rate is 1.54 cents per $100 of deposits. 13 Table of Contents The FDIC may terminate the deposit insurance of any insured depository institution, including the Bank, if it determines after a hearing that the institution has engaged or is engaging in unsafe or unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations, or has violated any applicable law, regulation, order or any condition imposed by an agreement with the FDIC. It also may suspend deposit insurance temporarily during the hearing process for the permanent termination of insurance. Management is aware of no existing circumstances which would result in termination of the Bank’s insurance. Standards for Safety and Soundness The FDIA, as amended by FDICIA and the Riegle Community Development and Regulatory Improvement Act of 1994, requires the FDIC and the other federal bank regulatory agencies to prescribe standards of safety and soundness, by regulations or guidelines, relating generally to operations and management, asset growth, asset quality, earnings, stock valuation, and compensation. The FDIC and the other federal bank regulatory agencies adopted, effective August 9, 1995, a set of guidelines prescribing safety and soundness standards pursuant to FDICIA, as amended. The guidelines establish general standards relating to internal controls and information systems, internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth and compensation, fees and benefits. In general, the guidelines require, among other things, appropriate systems and practices to identify and manage the risks and exposures specified in the guidelines. The guidelines prohibit excessive compensation as an unsafe and unsound practice and describe compensation as excessive when the amounts paid are unreasonable or disproportionate to the services performed by an executive officer, employee, director or principal shareholder. Community Reinvestment Under the Community Reinvestment Act (“CRA”), each insured depository institution has a continuing and affirmative obligation, consistent with the safe and sound operation of such institution, to help meet the credit needs of its entire community, including low-and moderate-income neighborhoods. The CRA does not establish specific lending requirements or programs for such institutions nor does it limit an institution’s discretion to develop the types of products and services that it believes are best suited to its particular community, consistent with the CRA. The CRA requires each federal banking agency, in connection with its examination of an insured depository institution, to assess and assign one of four ratings to the institution’s record of meeting the credit needs of its community and to take such records into account in its evaluation of certain applications by the institution, including application for charters, branches and other deposit facilities, relocations, mergers, consolidations, acquisitions of assets or assumptions of liabilities and savings and loan holding company acquisitions. The CRA also requires that all institutions make public disclosure of their CRA ratings. The Bank received a rating of “outstanding” as of the most recent CRA report issued by the FDIC. Brokered Deposits FDIC regulations adopted under the FDIA govern the receipt of brokered deposits by banks. Well capitalized institutions are not subject to limitations on brokered deposits, while adequately capitalized institutions are able to accept, renew or rollover brokered deposits only with a waiver from the FDIC and subject to certain restrictions on the yield paid on such deposits. Undercapitalized institutions are not permitted to accept brokered deposits. The Bank does not believe the brokered deposits regulation has had or will have a material effect on the funding or liquidity of the Bank, which is currently a well-capitalized institution. Federal Limitations on Activities and Investments The equity investments and activities as a principal of FDIC-insured state-chartered banks such as the Bank are generally limited to those that are permissible for national banks. Under regulations dealing with equity investments, an insured state bank generally may not directly or indirectly acquire or retain any equity investment of a type, or in an amount, that is not permissible for a national bank. However, an insured state bank is not prohibited from, among other things, (i) acquiring or retaining a majority interest in a subsidiary, (ii) investing as a limited partner in a partnership the sole purpose of which is direct or indirect investment in the acquisition, rehabilitation or new construction of a qualified housing project, provided that such limited partnership investments may not exceed 2% of the bank’s total assets, (iii) acquiring up to 10% of the voting stock of a company that solely provides or reinsures director’, trustees’ and officers’ liability insurance coverage or bankers’ blanket bond group insurance coverage for insured depository institutions, and (iv) acquiring or retaining the voting shares of a depository institution if certain requirements are met. In addition, an insured state-chartered bank may not, directly or indirectly through a subsidiary, engage as principal in any activity that is not permissible for a national bank unless the FDIC has determined that such activities would pose no risk to the insurance fund of which it is a member and the bank is in compliance with applicable regulatory capital requirements. Any insured state-chartered bank that is directly or indirectly engaged in any activity that is not permitted for a national bank must cease such impermissible activity. 14 Table of Contents Interstate Branching Effective June 1, 1997, the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994 (the “Riegle-Neal Act”) amended the FDIA and certain other statutes to permit state and national banks with different home states to merge across state lines, with approval of the appropriate federal banking agency, unless the home state of a participating bank had passed legislation prior to May 31, 1997 expressly prohibiting interstate mergers. Under the Riegle-Neal Act amendments, once a state or national bank has established branches in a state, that bank may establish and acquire additional branches at any location in the state of which any bank involved in the interstate merger transaction could have established or acquired branches under applicable federal or state law. If a state opts out of interstate branching within the specified time period, no bank in any other state may establish a branch in the state which has opted out, whether through an acquisition or de novo. For purposes of the Riegle-Neal Act’s amendments to the FDIA, the Bank is treated as a state bank and is subject to the same restriction on interstate branching as other state banks. However, for purposes of the IBA, the Bank is considered to be a foreign bank and may branch interstate by merger or de novo to the same extent as a domestic bank in the Bank’s home state. It is not yet possible to determine how these statutes will be harmonized, with respect either to which federal agency will approve interstate transactions or to which “home state” determination rules will apply. Banking Operations-Puerto Rico Regulation General As a commercial bank organized under the laws of Puerto Rico the Bank is subject to the supervision, examination and regulation of the Commissioner, pursuant to the Puerto Rico Banking Law of 1933 (the “Banking Law”). The Banking Law contains provisions governing the incorporation and organization, rights and responsibilities of directors, officers and stockholders as well as the corporate powers, lending limitations, capital requirements, investment requirements and other aspects of the Bank and its affairs. In addition, the Commissioner is given extensive rule making power and administrative discretion under the Banking Law. Section 12 of the Banking Law requires the prior approval of the Commissioner with respect to a transfer of capital stock of a bank that results in a change of control of the bank. Under Section 12, a change of control is presumed to occur if a person or a group of persons acting in concert, directly or indirectly, acquire more than 5% of the outstanding voting capital stock of the bank. The Commissioner has interpreted the restrictions of Section 12 as applying to acquisitions of voting securities of entities controlling a bank, such as a bank holding company. Under the Banking Law, the determination of the Commissioner whether to approve a change of control filing is final and non-appealable. Section 16 of the Banking Law requires every bank to maintain a legal reserve which shall not be less than 20% of its demand liabilities, except government deposits (federal state and municipal) which are secured by actual collateral. The reserve is required to be composed of any of the following securities or combination thereof: (1) legal tender of the United States; (2) checks on banks or trust companies located in any part of Puerto Rico, to be presented for collection during the day following that on which they are received; (3) money deposited in other banks or depository institutions, subject to immediate collection; (4) federal funds sold to any Federal Reserve Bank and securities purchased under agreement to resell executed by the bank with such funds that are subject to be repaid to the bank on or before the close of the next business day; and (5) any other asset that the Commissioner determines from time to time. Section 17 of the Banking Law permits Puerto Rico commercial banks to make loans to any one person, firm, partnership or corporation, up to an aggregate amount of 15% the sum of: (i) paid-in capital; (ii) reserve fund of the commercial bank; and (iii) any other components that the Commissioner may determine from time to time. As of December 31, 2005, the legal lending limit for the Bank under this provision was approximately $54.4 million. If such loans are secured by collateral worth at least 25% more than the amount of the loan, the aggregate maximum amount may reach one third of the sum of the Bank’s paid-in capital, reserve fund, retained earnings and any other components that the Commissioner may determine from time to time. There are no restrictions under Section 17 of the Banking Law on the amount of loans which are wholly secured by bonds, securities and other evidences of indebtedness of the Government of the United States, of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or by bonds, not in default, of authorities, instrumentalities or dependencies of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico or its municipalities. Section 17 of the Banking Law also prohibits Puerto Rico commercial banks from making loans secured by their own stock, and from purchasing their own stock in connection therewith, unless such purchase is necessary to prevent losses because of a debt previously contracted in good faith. The stock so purchased by the Puerto Rico commercial bank must be sold by the bank in a public or private sale within one year from the date of purchase. 15 Table of Contents The Banking Law provides that no officers, directors, agents or employees of a Puerto Rico commercial bank may serve or discharge a position of officer, director, agent or employee of another Puerto Rico commercial bank, financial company, savings and loan association, trust company, company engaged in granting mortgage loans or any other institution engaged in the money lending business in Puerto Rico. This prohibition is not applicable to the affiliates of a Puerto Rico commercial bank. Section 27 of the Banking Law also requires that at least 10% of the yearly net income of a Puerto Rico commercial bank be credited to a reserve fund until the amount deposited to the credit of the reserve fund is equal to 100% of total paid-in capital (common and preferred) of the commercial bank. As of December 31, 2005, the Bank had an adequate reserve fund established. Section 27 of the Banking Law also provides that when the expenditures of a Puerto Rico commercial bank are greater than receipts, the excess of the expenditures over receipts shall be charged against the undistributed profits of the bank, and the balance, if any, shall be charged against the reserve fund, as a reduction thereof. If there is no reserve fund sufficient to cover such balance in whole or in part, the outstanding amount shall be charged against the capital account and no dividends shall be declared until said capital has been restored to its original amount and the reserve fund to 20% of the original capital of the bank. Section 14 of the Banking Law authorizes the Bank to conduct certain financial and related activities directly or through subsidiaries, including lease financing of personal property, operating small loans companies and mortgage loans activities. The Bank currently has two subsidiaries, Santander Mortgage, a mortgage company, and Santander International Bank, an international banking entity. The Finance Board, which is composed of the Commissioner, the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Consumer Affairs, the President of the Economic Development Bank, the President of the Government Development Bank, and the President of the Planning Board, has the authority to regulate the maximum interest rates and finance charges that may be charged on loans to individuals and unincorporated businesses in Puerto Rico. The current regulations of the Finance Board provide that the applicable interest rate on loans to individuals and unincorporated businesses, including real estate development loans but excluding certain other personal and commercial loans secured by mortgages on real estate properties, is to be determined by free competition. Regulations adopted by the Finance Board deregulated the maximum finance charges on retail installment sales contracts, and for credit card purchases. These regulations do not set a maximum rate for charges on retail installment sales contracts and for credit card purchases and set aside previous regulations which regulated these maximum finance charges. Furthermore, there is no maximum rate set for installment sales contracts involving motor vehicles, commercial, agricultural and industrial equipment, commercial electric appliances and insurance premiums. IBC Act Santander International Bank, an international banking entity, is subject to supervision and regulation by the Commissioner of Financial Institutions under the International Banking Center Regulatory Act (the “IBC Act”). Under the IBC Act, no sale, encumbrance, assignment, merger, exchange or transfer of shares, interest or participation in the capital of an IBE may be initiated without the prior approval of the Commissioner, if by such transaction a person would acquire, directly or indirectly, control of 10% or more of any class of stock, interest or participation in the capital of the IBE. The IBC Act and the regulations issued thereunder by the Commissioner (the IBC Regulations) limit the business activities that may be carried out by an IBE. Such activities are limited in part to persons and assets located outside of Puerto Rico. The IBC Act further provides that every IBE must have not less than $300,000 of unencumbered assets or acceptable financial securities in Puerto Rico. Under the IBC Act, without the prior approval of the Office of the Commissioner, Santander International Bank may not amend its articles of incorporation or issue additional shares of capital stock or other securities convertible into additional shares of capital stock unless such shares are issued directly to the shareholders of Santander International Bank previously identified in the application to organize the international banking entity, in which case notification to the Commissioner must be given within ten (10) business days following the date of the issue. Pursuant to the IBC Act, Santander International Bank must maintain its original accounting books and records in its principal place of business in Puerto Rico. Santander International Bank is also required to submit to the Commissioner quarterly and annual reports of its financial condition and results of operations, including annual audited financial statements. 16 Table of Contents The IBC Act empowers the Commissioner to revoke or suspend, after notice and hearing, a license issued thereunder if, among other things, the IBE fails to comply with the IBC Act, the IBC Regulations, or the terms of its license, or if the Commissioner finds that the business of the IBE is conducted in a manner not consistent with the public interest. Mortgage Banking Operations Santander Mortgage is subject to the rules and regulations of FHA, VA, FNMA, FHLMC, HUD and GNMA with respect to originating, processing, selling and servicing mortgage loans and the issuance and sale of mortgage-backed securities. Those rules and regulations, among other things, prohibit discrimination and establish underwriting guidelines which include provisions for inspections and appraisals, require credit reports on prospective borrowers and fix maximum loan amounts, and with respect to VA loans, fix maximum interest rates. Moreover, lenders such as Santander Mortgage are required annually to submit to FHA, VA, FNMA, FHLMC, GNMA and HUD, audited financial statements, and each regulatory entity has its own financial requirements. Santander Mortgage’s affairs are also subject to supervision and examination by FHA, VA, FNMA, FHLMC, GNMA and HUD at all times to assure compliance with the applicable regulations, policies and procedures. Mortgage origination activities are subject to, among others, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, Federal Truth-in-Lending Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder which, among other things, prohibit discrimination and require the disclosure of certain basic information to mortgagors concerning credit terms and settlement costs. Santander Mortgage is licensed by the Commissioner under the Puerto Rico Mortgage Banking Law (the “Mortgage Banking Law”), and as such is subject to regulation by the Commissioner, with respect to, among other things, licensing requirements and establishment of maximum origination fees on certain types of mortgage loans products. Although Santander Mortgage believes that it is in compliance in all material respects with applicable Federal and Puerto Rico laws, rules and regulations, there can be no assurance that more restrictive laws or rules will not be adopted in the future, which could make compliance more difficult or expensive, restricting Santander Mortgage’s ability to originate or sell mortgage loans or sell mortgage-backed securities, further limit or restrict the amount of interest and other fees earned from the origination of loans, or otherwise adversely affect the business or prospects of Santander Mortgage. Section 5 of the Mortgage Banking Law requires the prior approval of the Commissioner for the acquisition of control of any mortgage banking institution licensed under such law. For purposes of the Mortgage Banking Law, the term “control” means the power to direct or influence decisively, directly or indirectly, the management or policies of a mortgage banking institution. The Mortgage Banking Law provides that a transaction that results in the holding of less than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of a mortgage banking institution shall not be considered a change in control. Broker Dealer Operations Santander Securities is registered as a broker-dealer with the SEC and the Commissioner, and is also a member of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (the “NASD”). As a registered broker-dealer, it is subject to regulation and supervision by the SEC, the Commissioner and the NASD in matters relating to the conduct of its securities business, including record keeping and reporting requirements, supervision and licensing of employees and obligations to customers. In particular, Santander Securities is subject to the SEC’s net capital rules, which specify minimum net capital requirements for registered broker-dealers and are designed to ensure that broker-dealers maintain regulatory capital in relation to their liabilities and the size of their customer business. Insurance Agency Operations Santander Insurance Agency is registered as a corporate agent and general agency with the office of the Commissioner of Insurance of Puerto Rico (the “Insurance Commissioner”). Santander Insurance Agency is subject to regulation and supervision by the Commissioner relating to, among other things, licensing of employees, sales practices, charging of commissions and obligations to customers. 17 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Corporation is subject to risk in several areas. Discussed below, and elsewhere in this report, are the various risk factors that could cause the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations to vary significantly from period to period. Please refer to the “Regulation and Supervision” section of this report for more information about legislative and regulatory risks. Also refer to the MD&A section, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk, and the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data sections in this report for additional information about credit, interest rate and market risks. Any factor described below or elsewhere in this report or in our 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders could, by itself or together with one or more other factors, have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. General business, economic and political conditions. The Corporation’s businesses and earnings are affected by general economic and political conditions in Puerto Rico and the United States of America. General business and economic conditions that could affect the Corporation include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, monetary supply, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, and the strength of the United States and Puerto Rico economies. A period of reduced economic growth or a recession has historically resulted in a reduction in lending activity and an increase in the rate of defaults on loans. A recession may have an adverse impact on net interest income and fee income. The Corporation may also experience significant losses on the loan portfolio due to defaults as customers become unable to meet their obligations, which would result in an adverse effect on earnings as higher reserves for loan losses would be required. Geopolitical conditions can also affect the Corporation’s earnings. Acts or threats of terrorism, actions taken by the United States or other governments in response to acts or threats of terrorism and/or military conflicts, could affect the general business and economic conditions in Puerto Rico, United States and abroad. The Corporation’s financial activities and credit exposure are concentrated in Puerto Rico. As a result, the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations are highly dependent on economic conditions in Puerto Rico. An extended economic slowdown, adverse political or economic developments or natural disasters such as hurricanes, affecting Puerto Rico could result in a reduction in lending activities and an increase in the level of nonperforming assets and charge offs, all of which would adversely affect the Corporation’s profitability. Competition. The Corporation operates in a highly competitive environment in Puerto Rico from other United States, Puerto Rico and foreign banks as well as mortgage banking companies, insurance companies and brokers-dealers. Increased competition could require that the Corporation lower rates charged on loans or increase rates offered on deposits, which could adversely affect profitability. The Corporation’s business model is based on a diversified mix of businesses that provide a broad range of financial products and services, delivered through multiple distribution channels. The Corporation’s success depends, in part, on its ability to adapt its products and services to evolving industry standards. There is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices. This can reduce the Corporation’s net interest margin and income from fee-based products and services. In addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies, including internet services, could require the Corporation to incur in substantial expenditures to modify or adapt its existing products and services in order to remain competitive. The Corporation is at risk of not being successful or timely in introducing new products and services, responding or adapting to changes in consumer spending and saving habits, achieving market acceptance of its products and services, or developing and maintaining loyal customers. Interest rate risk. Net interest income is the interest earned on loans, securities and other assets minus the interest paid on deposits, long-term and short-term debt and other liabilities. Net interest income is the difference between the yield on assets and the rate paid on deposits and other sources of funding. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond the Corporation’s control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination of loans, the prepayment speed of loans, the purchase of investments, the generation of deposits and the rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits or other sources of funding. The impact of these changes may be magnified if the Corporation does not effectively manage the relative sensitivity of its assets and liabilities to changes in market interest rates. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect net interest margin. Although the yield earned on assets and funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing the Corporation’s net interest margin to expand or contract. The Corporation’s liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than its assets, so they may adjust faster in response to changes in interest rates. 18 Table of Contents Changes in the slope of the “yield curve” – or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates – could also reduce the Corporation’s net interest margin. Normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. However, since the Corporation’s liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than its assets, they may adjust faster in response to changes in interest rates. As a result, when interest rates rise, funding costs may rise faster than the yield earned on assets, causing net interest margin to contract until the yield catches up. The Corporation assesses its interest rate risk by estimating the effect on earnings under various scenarios that differ based on assumptions about the direction, magnitude and speed of interest rate changes and the slope of the yield curve. Some interest rate risk is hedged with derivatives. However, not all interest rate risk is hedged. There is always the risk that changes in interest rates could reduce net interest income and earnings in material amounts, especially if actual conditions turn out to be materially different than what the Corporation expected. For example, if interest rates rise or fall faster than the Corporation assumed, or the slope of the yield curve changes, the Corporation may incur significant losses on debt securities held as investments. To reduce interest rate risk, the Corporation may rebalance its investment and loan portfolios, refinance its debt and take other strategic actions. Certain losses or expenses may be incurred when such strategic actions are taken. Refer to the “Risk Management – Asset Liability Management” section of the MD&A. Credit Risk. When the Corporation lends money or commits to lend money or enters into a contract with a counterparty, it incurs credit risk, or the risk of losses if borrowers do not repay their loans or counterparties fail to perform according to the term of their contract. The Corporation allows for and reserves against credit risks based on its assessment of credit losses inherent in its loan portfolio (including unfunded credit commitments). The process for determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses is critical to the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. It requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic predictions might impair the ability of borrowers to repay their loans. As is the case with any such assessments, there is always the chance that the Corporation will fail to identify the proper factors or that it will fail to accurately estimate the impacts of factors that are identified. For further discussion of credit risk and the Corporation’s credit risk management policies and procedures, refer to “Credit Risk Management and Loan Quality” in the MD&A. Changes in market prices of managed assets. The Corporation earns fee income from managing assets for others and providing brokerage services. Since investment management fees are often based on the value of assets under management, a fall in the market prices of those assets could reduce the Corporation’s fee income. Changes in stock market prices could affect the trading activity of investors, reducing commissions and other fees earned from the brokerage business. Changes in accounting standards. The Corporation’s accounting policies are fundamental to understanding it financial condition and results of operations. Some of these policies require the use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of assets or liabilities and financial results. Several of our accounting policies are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because it is likely that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. For a description of the Corporation’s critical accounting policies, refer to “Critical Accounting Policies” in the MD&A. From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), the SEC and other regulatory bodies, change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of external financial statements. These changes are beyond the Corporation’s control, can be difficult to predict and could materially impact how it reports financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, the Corporation could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the restatement of prior period financial statements. Federal and state regulations. The Corporation, the banks and non banking subsidiaries are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation that govern almost all aspects of its operations. These regulations protect depositors, federal deposit insurance funds, consumers and the banking system as a whole, not stockholders. The Corporation and its non banking subsidiaries are also heavily regulated by securities regulators. This regulation is designed to protect investors in securities we sell or underwrite. Congress and state legislatures and foreign, federal and state regulatory agencies continually review laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect the Corporation in substantial and unpredictable ways including limiting the types of financial services and products it may offer and increasing the ability of non banks to offer competing financial services and products. Implementation of regulatory changes could also be costly to the Corporation. Governmental fiscal and monetary policy. The Corporation’s earnings are affected by domestic and international monetary policy. For example, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System regulates the supply of money and credit in the 19 Table of Contents United States. These policies, to a large extent, determine the Corporation’s cost of funds for lending and investing and the returns earned on those loans and investments, both of which affect net interest margin. These policies can also affect the value of financial instruments, such as debt securities and mortgage servicing rights as well affecting borrowers by potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. The Corporations earnings are also affected by the fiscal policies that are adopted by various regulatory authorities of Puerto Rico and the United States. Changes in tax laws can have a potentially adverse impact on the Corporation’s earnings. Changes in domestic and international monetary and fiscal policies are beyond the Corporation’s control and are difficult to predict. Liquidity risk. Liquidity is essential to business and could be impaired by an inability to access the capital markets or unforeseen outflows of cash. This situation may arise due to circumstances that the Corporation may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption. The Corporation’s credit ratings are important to its liquidity. A reduction in credit ratings could adversely affect its liquidity and competitive position, increase borrowing costs, limit access to the capital markets. For a further discussion of the Corporation’s liquidity, refer to “Liquidity Risk” in the MD&A. Operational risk. The Corporation is exposed to operational risk. In its daily operations, the Corporation relies on the continued efficacy of its technical and telecommunication systems, operational infrastructure, relationships with third parties and the vast array of associates and key executives in its day to day and ongoing operations. Failure by any or all of these resources subjects the Corporation to risks that may vary in size, scale and scope. This includes but is not limited to operational or technical failures, ineffectiveness or exposure due to interruption in third party support as expected, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors (including clerical or recordkeeping errors), as well as, the loss of key individuals or failure on the part of the key individuals to perform properly. Reputational risk. The Corporation is subject to reputation risk, or the risk to earnings and capital from negative public opinion. The Corporation’s ability to attract and retain customers and employees could be adversely affected to the extent its reputation is damaged. The Corporation’s failure to address, or to appear to fail to address various issues that could give rise to reputational risk could cause harm to the Corporation and its business prospects and could lead to litigation and regulatory action. These issues include, but are not limited to, appropriately addressing potential conflicts of interest; legal and regulatory requirements; ethical issues; money laundering ; privacy; properly maintaining customer and associated personal information; record keeping; sales and trading practices; and the proper identification of the legal, reputational, credit, liquidity, and market risks inherent in its products. Merger risk. There are significant risks associated with mergers. Future business acquisitions could be material to the Corporation and could require the issuance of additional capital or incurring of debt. In that event, the Corporation could become more susceptible to economic downturns and competitive pressures. Merger risk includes the possibility that projected growth opportunities and cost savings fail to be realized, and that the integration process results in the loss of key employees, or that the disruption of ongoing business from the merger could adversely affect the Corporation’s ability to maintain relationships with customers. Litigation risk. The volume of claims and the amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions remains high. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against the Corporation could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to the Corporation, which could result in serious financial consequences. The SEC and other government agencies are currently conducting investigations of mortgage loan transfers and related transactions among several Puerto Rico banking institutions, the Corporation is unable to predict whether or to what extent such investigations will have adverse effects on the Corporation. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 