ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to other information in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating Inforte and its business because such factors currently may have a significant impact on Inforte’s business, operating results and financial condition. As a result of the risk factors set forth below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K, and the risk factors discussed in Inforte’s other Securities and Exchange Commission filings, actual results could differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. 4 RISKS RELATED TO INFORTE If we fail to identify and successfully transition to the latest and most demanded solutions or keep up with an evolving industry, we will not compete successfully for clients and our profits may decrease. If we fail to identify the latest solutions, or if we identify but fail to successfully transition our business to solutions with growing demand, our reputation and our ability to compete for clients and the best employees could suffer. If we cannot compete successfully for clients, our revenues may decrease. Also, if our projects do not involve the latest and most demanded solutions, they would generate lower fees. Because our market changes constantly, some of the most important challenges facing us are the need to: • develop new services that meet changing customer needs; • identify and effectively market solutions with growing demand during a period of slower technological advancement and adoption; • enhance our current services; • continue to develop our strategic expertise; • effectively use the latest technologies; and • influence and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. All of these challenges must be met in a timely and cost-effective manner. We cannot assure you that we will succeed in effectively meeting these challenges. If we fail to satisfy our clients’ expectations, our existing and continuing business could be adversely affected. If we fail to satisfy the expectations of our clients, we could damage our reputation and our ability to retain existing clients and attract new clients. In addition, if we fail to perform adequately on our engagements, we could be liable to our clients for breach of contract. Although most of our contracts limit the amount of any damages based upon the fees we receive we could still incur substantial cost, negative publicity, and diversion of management resources to defend a claim, and as a result, our business results could suffer. We may be unable to hire and retain employees who are highly skilled, which would impair our ability to perform client services, generate revenue and maintain profitability. If we are unable to hire and retain highly-skilled individuals, our ability to retain existing business and compete for new business will be harmed. Individuals who have successfully sold and delivered services similar to those we provide to our clients are limited and competition for these individuals is intense. Further, individuals who were previously successful in a different business environment may no longer be successful. Identifying individuals who will succeed in this environment is extraordinarily difficult. To attract and retain these individuals, we invest a significant amount of time and money. In addition, we expect that both bonus payments and equity ownership will be an important component of overall employee compensation. In the current economic and market environment, overall bonus payments have been below target, increasing the risk that key employees will leave Inforte. Also, if our stock price does not increase over time, it may be more difficult to retain employees who have been compensated with equity-based awards. In the first quarter of 2005 Inforte’s board of directors approved a capital restructuring plan that, among other things, offered employees the opportunity to convert certain stock options to restricted stock and to cash out other options. On March 21, 2005 Inforte completed its offer to exchange options for cash or restricted stock. 509,636 options were exchanged for a total consideration of $848,000 and 707,112 options were exchanged for 310,394 shares of restricted stock. As a result of this restructuring plan, total outstanding options were reduced from 2.6 million at December 31, 2004 to 474,080 as of December 31, 2005. Inforte intends to favor restricted stock grants over stock options in the future. These actions could reduce net income per share and may cause Inforte to become unprofitable. 5 If we fail to adequately manage rapid changes in demand, our profitability and cash flow may be reduced or eliminated. If we cannot keep pace with the rapid changes in demand, we will be unable to effectively match resources with demand, and maintain high client satisfaction, which may eliminate our profitability and our ability to achieve positive free cash flow, which we define as cash flow from operations minus capital expenditures. Our business grew dramatically from 1993 through 2000. For example, our net revenue increased by 100% or more for seven consecutive years, reaching $63.8 million in 2000. As a result of the pricing pressures from competitors and from clients facing pressure to control costs, net revenue has declined in each of the years 2001, 2002 and 2003, dropping to $32.7 million in 2003, then increasing to $43.9 million in 2004 and dropping again to $37.7 million in 2005. If our revenues decline, we may not be profitable or achieve positive free cash flow. If, on the other hand, our growth exceeds our expectations, our current resources and infrastructure may be inadequate to handle the growth. If our marketing relationships with software vendors deteriorate, we would lose their client referrals. If these vendors continue to increase their professional services revenue, our revenue could be adversely affected. If these vendors become subject to industry consolidation or continue to increase their professional services revenue, our revenue could be adversely affected. We currently have marketing relationships with software vendors, including SAP AG, Siebel Systems, Inc. and salesforce.com, inc. Although we have historically received a large number of business leads from these and other software vendors to implement their products, they are not required to refer business to us and they may terminate these relationships at any time. If our relationships with these software vendors deteriorate, we may lose their client leads and our ability to develop new clients could be negatively impacted. Any decrease in our ability to obtain clients may cause a reduction in our net revenues. Historically our software partners have primarily relied on licensing fees and maintenance contracts to generate revenue. However, more recently as software licensed sales have declined, software vendors have sought to supplement their revenue through increased implementation services for their software. This business strategy puts us in competition with our software partners on some deals, reducing client leads and our ability to develop new clients and revenue. Currently, we do not receive a significant portion of our leads through our software vendor relationships. If we are unable to rapidly integrate third-party software, we may not be able to deliver solutions to our clients on a timely basis, resulting in lost revenues and potential liability. In providing client services, we recommend that our clients use software applications from a variety of third-party vendors. If we are unable to implement and integrate this software in a fully functional manner for our clients, we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction or marketing of services. Software often contains errors or defects, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. Despite internal testing and testing by current and potential clients, our current and future solutions may contain serious defects due to third-party software or software we develop or customize for clients. Serious defects or errors could result in liability for damages, lost revenues or a delay in implementation of our solutions. Our revenues could be negatively affected by the loss of a large client or our failure to collect a large account receivable. At times, we derive a significant portion of our revenue from large projects for a limited number of varying clients. During 2005 our five largest clients accounted for 36% of net revenue and our ten largest clients accounted for 55% of net revenue. In the same year we had one client, BP plc, contributing more than 10% of net revenue for the year. Although these large clients vary from time to time and our long-term revenues do not rely on any one client, our revenues could be negatively affected if we were to lose one of our top clients or if we were to fail to collect a large account receivable. In addition, many of our contracts are short-term and our clients may be able to reduce or cancel our services without incurring any penalty. If our clients reduce or terminate our services, we would lose revenue and would have to reallocate our employees and our resources to other projects to attempt to minimize the effects of that reduction or termination. Accordingly, terminations, including any termination by a major client, could adversely impact our revenues. The valuation of businesses that we have recently acquired is based on revenues drawn from a small number of engagements with significant clients. The loss of such a significant client engagement may result in negative adjustments to goodwill which in turn will affect our results from operations. We believe the uncertain economic environment increases the probability that services may be reduced or canceled. 6 If we estimate incorrectly the time required to complete our projects, we will lose money on fixed-price contracts. A portion of our contracts are fixed-price contracts, rather than contracts in which the client pays us on a time-and-materials basis. We must estimate the number of hours and the materials required before entering into a fixed-price contract. Our future success will depend on our ability to continue to set rates and fees accurately and to maintain targeted rates of employee utilization and project quality. If we fail to accurately estimate the time and the resources required for a project, any required increase in the time and resources to complete the project could cause our profits to decline. Revenue recognized on fixed-price contracts in 2005 was 14% of total revenue. Fluctuations in our quarterly revenues and operating results due to cyclical client demand may lead to reduced prices for our stock. Our quarterly revenues and operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and we expect them to continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. Historically, we have experienced our greatest sequential growth during the first and second quarters. We typically experience significantly lower sequential growth in the third and fourth quarters. We attribute this to the budgeting cycles of our customers, most of whom have calendar-based fiscal years and as a result are more likely to initiate projects during the first half of the year. In 2001, this traditional seasonal pattern was overwhelmed by a cyclical decline in information technology spending, causing our net revenue to decline sequentially in each quarter of 2001. In February and March 2002, we did experience an increase in demand which did allow our net revenue in the second quarter 2002 to exceed the first quarter 2002 level. We believe that increase in demand was due to positive seasonal effects, while the subsequent lower revenue in the third quarter 2002 was due to negative seasonal effects. In 2003, our net revenue declined sequentially for the first three quarters of the year. We believe our traditional seasonal pattern was overwhelmed by geopolitical events that took place early in 2003, the most notable of these events being the commencing of the war in Iraq. In the beginning of 2004 there was increased demand due to our development of new service offerings and a general pick-up in the economy; the third and fourth quarter of 2004 were impacted by normal seasonal effects and the commoditization of our CRM service offering. Lower demand for our CRM service offering was again the reason for the sequential drop in revenue in the first quarter of 2005. The demand for our BI service offering picked up in the second quarter of 2005 and was responsible for the increase in total net revenue. Normal seasonal trends as well as robust growth in the European markets were responsible for the relatively small changes in the third and fourth quarter net revenue. This existence of seasonal, cyclical and service offering effects makes it more difficult to predict demand, and if we are unable to predict client demand accurately in a slower growth or distressed economic environment, our expenses may be disproportionate to our revenue on a quarterly basis and our stock price may be adversely affected. Others could claim that Inforte or one of its affiliates or a non-affiliated company providing rights to Inforte or one of its affiliates, infringes on their intellectual property rights, which may result in substantial costs, diversion of resources and management attention, harm to our reputation and impairment of our profitability or the value of our investments. A portion of our business involves the development of software applications for specific client engagements. Although we believe that our services do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, we may be the subject of claims for infringement, which even if successfully defended could be costly and time-consuming. An infringement claim against us or our affiliates could materially and adversely affect us in that we may: • experience a diversion of our financial resources and management attention; • incur damages and litigation costs, including attorneys’ fees; • be enjoined from further use of the intellectual property; • be required to obtain a license to use the intellectual property, incurring licensing fees; • need to develop a non-infringing alternative, which could be costly and delay projects; and • have to indemnify clients with respect to losses incurred as a result of our infringement of the intellectual property. As of December 31, 2005, a company providing services to Provansis LLC, was involved in arbitration with a third party over alleged infringement of intellectual rights. If the outcome of this arbitration is unfavorable to that company, certain services provided to Provansis may be suspended. The cost of building alternatives for these services may increase Provansis’ costs and may cause Inforte to impair its investment in Provansis, which in turn may negatively impact Inforte’s profitability. 7 Because we are newer and smaller than many of our competitors, we may not have the resources to effectively compete, causing our revenues to decline. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, larger client bases, longer relationships with clients, greater brand or name recognition, and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, and public relations resources than we do. We may be unable to compete with full-service consulting companies, including the former consulting divisions of the largest global accounting firms, who are able to offer their clients a wider range of services. If our clients decide to take their strategy and technology projects to these companies, our revenues may decline. It is possible that in uncertain economic times our clients may prefer to work with larger firms to a greater extent than normal. In addition, new professional services companies may provide services similar to ours at a lower price, which could cause our revenues to decline. Our expansion and growth internationally could negatively affect our business. For 2005, our international net revenue was 37% of total net revenue. There are additional risks associated with international operations, which we do not face domestically and we may assume even higher levels of such risk as we expand our ventures in Europe and India. Risk factors associated with international operations include longer customer payment cycles, adverse taxes and compliance with local laws and regulations. Further, the effects of fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect the results of operations. These risk factors may negatively impact our business. As offshore development becomes accepted as a viable alternative to doing work domestically, our pricing and revenue may be negatively affected. Gradually, over the past several decades, numerous IT service firms have been founded in countries such as India, which have well-educated and technically trained English-speaking workforces available at wage rates that are only a fraction of U.S. and European wages rates. Additionally, some larger clients have established internal IT operations at offshore locations. While traditionally we have not competed with offshore development, presently this form of development is seeing rapid and increasing acceptance in the market, especially for routine and repetitive types of development. While offshore development has greater risk due to distance, geopolitical and cultural issues, we believe its lower cost advantage will likely overwhelm these risks. If we are unable to evolve our service offerings to a more differentiated position or if the rate of acceptance of offshore development advances even faster than we anticipate, then our pricing and our revenue may be negatively affected. We have established an offshore development capability in New Delhi, India. If we are unable to adequately manage the additional complexity of these operations and this model for project delivery, it may impact project quality and overall company profitability. Recent changes in the executive team and strategic modifications in business structure could lead to inferior financial results if this transition does not occur smoothly. Over the past three years Inforte has implemented several strategic reorganization plans that comprised of simplification of the business structure and changes in Inforte’s executive management team. In December 2003, Inforte announced the hiring of new President and Chief Operating Officer, David Sutton, and the stepping down of Stephen Mack, both effective on that date. In January 2005 Inforte announced that Inforte’s Chief Operating Officer and President David Sutton had assumed the position of Chief Executive Officer and that Philip Bligh, while remaining as Chairman of the Board, was stepping down as Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Sutton relinquished the Chief Operating Officer title and Inforte does not plan any appointment to this position at this time. In March 2006 David Sutton resigned as the Chief Executive Officer and Inforte’s board of directors appointed Stephen Mack as the new President and Chief Executive Officer. Should these changes in the executive team adversely affect relationships with current partners and clients or lead to higher turnover rates, we may be unable to maintain the present level of profitability. Current or future legislative and regulatory requirements, such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, may lead to increased insurance, accounting, legal and other costs, which may cause our profitability to decline. We have already switched some supplier relationships, including our audit and tax advisor relationship to mitigate these cost increases, and other relationships are under review. On September 8, 2003, the Audit Committee of the board of directors approved (1) the dismissal of Ernst & Young LLP (E&Y) as Inforte’s independent accountants, effective November 15, 2003, and (2) the replacement of E&Y with Grant Thornton LLP as Inforte’s independent accountants, commencing upon the dismissal of E&Y. The replacement of E&Y with Grant Thornton LLP was based on economic reasons related to possible future fees escalation in current and forthcoming engagements of Inforte’s independent accountants. Further, efforts started 8 in 2004 to document the implementation of the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and for that purpose Inforte has incurred additional costs related to the hiring of outside consultants. These costs were less material in 2005 due to an extension in the compliance deadline. However, we expect these costs to increase even further in 2006 and 2007 if, starting 2007, under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act we are required to include, for the first time in our Annual Report on Form 10-K management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, and our independent auditors’ attestation of that assessment. We may not be able to integrate successfully the business of recently acquired companies with Inforte’s business. While we believe that acquisition deals enhance our ability to offer analytics and business intelligence solutions to our customers, acquired businesses may not be integrated successfully. Our limited experience with mergers and acquisitions could affect our ability to efficiently consummate and/or integrate acquisitions into our ongoing operations. Failure to integrate newly acquired businesses successfully could result in an inability to maintain revenue levels or to realize certain synergies of the acquisition, which, in turn, may negatively impact our operating results. If Provansis does not generate positive cash flows from operations Inforte’s results may be negatively impacted or losses may be suffered. Provansis was formed in May 2005 and is not yet profitable or generating positive cash flows. As of March 28, 2006 Inforte owned 19% of Provansis and during 2005 recognized approximately $142,569 for its share of Provansis’ losses. If Provansis does not become profitable or start to generate positive cash flows then this will have a negative impact on Inforte’s earnings. If an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of an acquired reporting unit below its carrying value we may have to charge a portion of any associated goodwill balance against profits, causing current net earning to become significantly lower or negative. The fair value of each reporting unit is estimated quarterly using a valuation methodology based on historical performance, forward looking performance and industry specific multiples. If a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, sale or disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit causes the fair value of the reporting unit to decline, Inforte may have to reduce the balance of any associated goodwill, which, in turn, will negatively impact our operating results. If confidential personal data is lost, destroyed or mishandled in a way giving access to unauthorized users, Inforte, and its affiliate companies may suffer as a result of negative publicity and legal action against the company. Some of Inforte’s affiliate companies are directly involved in processing and transfer of significant quantities of confidential personal data. Even if Inforte and its affiliate companies are following strict procedures and guidelines for protection of confidential personal data from unauthorized use, a possible breach of security could result in liability and negative publicity for Inforte or its affiliate companies. 9 RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY If the rate of adoption of advanced information technology slows substantially, our revenues may decrease. We market our services primarily to firms that want to adopt information technology that provides an attractive return on investment or helps provide a sustainable competitive advantage. Our revenues could decrease if companies decide not to integrate the latest technologies into their businesses due to economic factors, governmental regulations, financial constraints or other reasons. Inforte’s market research suggests that the level of information technology spending in the United States is closely linked with the growth rate of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP). We expect information technology spending and Inforte revenue to be highly dependent on the health of the U.S. economy. If the overall level of business capital investment declines this may cause our revenue to decline and remain at a lower level. Geopolitical instability may cause our revenues to decrease. Our clients often avoid large spending commitments during periods of geopolitical instability and economic uncertainty. The possibility of terrorists attacking United States’ interests or geopolitical concerns in other areas such as the Middle East, south Asia and North Korea may cause clients to freeze or slow their decision making processes. This would slow demand for our services and would negatively impact our revenue. RISKS RELATED TO THE OWNERSHIP OF OUR COMMON STOCK Our stock price could be extremely volatile, like many technology stocks. The market prices of securities of technology companies, particularly information technology services companies, have been highly volatile. We expect continued high volatility in our stock price, with prices at times bearing no relationship to Inforte’s operating performance. Inforte’s average trading volume during 2005 averaged approximately 31,000 shares per day. On any particular day, Inforte’s trading volume can be less than 1,000 shares, increasing the potential for volatile stock prices. Volatility of our stock price could result in expensive class action litigation. If our common stock suffers from volatility like the securities of other technology companies, we have a greater risk of further securities class action litigation claims. One such claim is pending presently. Litigation could result in substantial costs and could divert our resources and senior management’s attention. This could harm our productivity and profitability. Officers and directors own a significant percentage of outstanding shares and, as a group, may control a vote of stockholders. As of March 14, 2006 our executive officers and directors beneficially owned 30.8% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. The largest owners and their percentage ownership are set forth below: • Philip S. Bligh 19.2% • Stephen Mack 9.0% If the stockholders listed above act or vote together with other employees who own significant shares of our common stock, they will have the ability to control the election of our directors and the approval of any other action requiring stockholder approval, including any amendments to the certificate of incorporation and mergers or sales of all or substantially all assets, even if the other stockholders perceive that these actions are not in their best interests. Our stock repurchase program has had the effect of increasing the concentration of insider ownership. If we make further repurchases, the percentage of insider ownership could increase further. Over time, the influence or control executive officers and directors have on a stockholder vote may decrease as they diversify overall equity wealth with sales of Inforte stock. As permitted by SEC Rule 10b5-1, Inforte executive officers and directors have or may set up a predefined, structured stock trading program. The trading program allows brokers acting on behalf of company 10 insiders to trade company stock during company blackout periods or while the insiders may be aware of material, non-public information, if the transaction is performed according to a pre-existing contract, instruction or plan that was established with the broker during a non-blackout period and when the insider was not aware of any material, non-public information. Inforte executive officers and directors may also trade company stock outside of plans set up under SEC Rule 10b5-1, however, such trades would be subject to company blackout periods and insider trading rules. The authorization of preferred stock, a staggered board of directors and supermajority voting requirements will make a takeover attempt more difficult, even if the takeover would be favorable for stockholders. Inforte’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of deterring, delaying or preventing a change in control of Inforte. For example, our charter documents provide for: • the ability of the board of directors to issue preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms, including preferences and voting rights, of those shares without stockholder approval; • the inability of our stockholders to act by written consent or to call a special meeting; • advance notice provisions for stockholder proposals and nominations to the board of directors; • a staggered board of directors, with three-year terms, which will lengthen the time needed to gain control of the board of directors; and • supermajority voting requirements for stockholders to amend provisions of the charter documents described above. We are also subject to Delaware law. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits us from engaging in a business combination with any significant stockholder for a period of three years from the date the person became a significant stockholder unless, for example, our board of directors approved the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder. Any of the above could have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control that a stockholder may consider favorable. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 