ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISK FACTORS The reader should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (“Form 10-K”). The statements contained in or incorporated into this Form 10-K that are not historic facts are forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by forward-looking statements. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and an investor in our securities may lose all or part of their investment. Risks Related To Business Our business and results of operations are dependent on coal and coke markets, which may be cyclical. The principal source of our revenue is from the sale of coal and coke within China (or the “PRC”), thus the business and operating results are highly dependent on domestic Chinese demand for coal and coke. The Chinese coal and coke markets are cyclical and exhibit fluctuation in supply and demand from year to year. They are subject to numerous factors beyond our control, including, but not limited to, general economic conditions in the PRC and fluctuations in industries with high demand for coal, such as the power and steel industries. These factors are also linked to or influenced by global economic conditions. Fluctuations in supply and demand for coal and coke affect their prices, which in turn affect our operating and financial performance. We have seen substantial price fluctuations in these commodities in the past and believe that such fluctuations may continue. The demand for coal and coke are primarily influenced by the pace of domestic economic growth and development, and the demand for coal and coke from the power, steel, and construction industries. The supply of coal and coke, on the other hand, are primarily affected by the geographic location of coal mines, the volume of coal and coke produced by the domestic and international coal suppliers, tariffs duties and trade controls, value-added taxes (VAT) imposed on imports, international freight costs, and the quality and price of competing sources of coal and coke. Alternative fuels, such as natural gas, oil and nuclear power, and alternative energy sources, such as hydroelectric power, wind, geothermal and solar, also have influences on the market demand for coal and coke. Excess supply of coal or coke or significant reduction in the demand for our coal or coke by domestic power or steel producers may have an adverse effect on their prices, which would in turn cause a decline in our profitability. In addition, any significant decline in PRC domestic coal or coke prices could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our mining and coking operations are inherently subject to changing conditions that can affect our profitability. SinoCoking’s mining and coking operations are inherently subject to changing conditions that can affect levels of production and production costs for varying lengths of time and can result in decreases in profitability. SinoCoking is exposed to commodity price risk related to the purchase of diesel fuel, wood, explosives and steel. In addition, weather and natural disasters (such as earthquakes, landslides, flooding, and other similar occurrences), unexpected maintenance problems, key equipment failures, fires, variations in thickness of the layer, or seam, of coal, amounts of overburden, rock and other natural materials, variations in rock and other natural materials and variations in geological conditions can be expected in the future to have, a significant impact on our operating results. Prolonged disruption of production at the mine would result in a decrease in our revenues and profitability, which could be material. Other factors affecting the production and sale of our coal and coke that could result in decreases in our profitability include: · sustained high pricing environment for raw materials, including, among other things, diesel fuel, explosives and steel; 21 · changes in the laws and/or regulations that we are subject to, including permitting, safety, labor and environmental requirements; · labor shortages; and · changes in the coal and coke market and general economic conditions. Our coal and coke operations are extensively regulated by the PRC government and government regulations may limit its activities and adversely affect its business operations. SinoCoking’s coal and coke operations, like those of other Chinese natural resources and energy companies, are subject to extensive regulations administered by the PRC government. Central governmental authorities, such as the National Development and Reform Commission, the State Environmental Protection Administration, the Ministry of Land and Resources, the State Administration of Coal Mine Safety, the State Bureau of Taxation, and provincial and local authorities and agencies exercise extensive control over various aspects of China’s coal mining and transportation (including rail and sea transport). These controls affect the following material aspects of our operations: · exploration, exploitation and mining rights and licensing; · rehabilitation of mining sites after mining is completed; · recovery rate requirements; · industry-specific taxes and fees; · target of our capital investments; · pension funds appropriation; and · environmental and safety standards. We believe that our operations are in compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, there can be no assurance that the central, provincial or local governments in the PRC will not impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures by us to comply. We may face significant constraints on its ability to implement its business strategies or to carry out or expand business operations. We may also be materially and adversely affected by future changes in certain regulations and policies of the PRC government in respect of the coal or coke industry. New legislation or regulations may be adopted that may materially and adversely affect our operations, our cost structure or demand for our products. In addition, new legislation or regulations or different or more stringent interpretation of existing laws and regulations may also require us to substantially change our existing operations or incur significant costs. The PRC government has become increasingly concerned with mine safety issues, particularly in light of several recent accidental explosions in coal mines (operated by other companies) due to inadequate internal safety measures, and as reflected by the implementation of the State Council’s Regulation on Phase-out of Small Coal Mines. Moreover, additional new legislation or regulations may be adopted, or the enforcement of existing laws could become more stringent, either of which may have a significant impact on our mining operations or customers’ ability to use coal and may require its customers to significantly change operations or to incur substantial costs. In 2008, the Henan Province mining authorities and related government bureaus conducted industry-wide coal mine safety inspections as a part of the government’s policy and efforts to reduce mining accidents and improve safety. The Hongchang Mine was inspected in September, October and December of 2008, and during the course of these inspections, mining activity was temporarily halted or reduced. This and future interruptions in coal extraction due to mining safety inspections, albeit temporary, may have a material effect on the Company’s financial results and operations. The Henan Province Pingdingshan Municipal Bureau of Land and Resources will require coking factories with a furnace height of less than 4.3 meters to phase out their operations in the next two to three years. SinoCoking’s existing coking furnace is 3 meters in height and as a result, we plan to phase out our existing coking factory in the next two to three years, and replace these facilities with a new coking facility that exceeds these regulatory standards. These government regulations will not affect our mining or coal washing operations. SinoCoking’s future success may depend substantially upon our ability to successfully build and operate the new coking factory and related facilities. A central element of our business plan involves the construction and operation of a new coking factory and related facilities. We commenced construction of this new factory and related facilities on March 3, 2010. While we believe the successful completion of the construction of these facilities as planned will be profitable, prior to completion there can be no assurance that SinoCoking will be able to complete construction as planned or operate the coking factory, or that if completed we will be able to operate the new factory profitably. The future profitability of our coking operations will also depend on our ability to secure washed coal on a cost-effective basis. 22 Our business operations may be adversely affected by present or future environmental regulations. As a producer of coal and coke products, SinoCoking is subject to significant, extensive, and increasingly stringent environmental protection laws and regulations in China. These laws and regulations: · impose fees for the discharge of waste substances; · require the establishment of reserves for reclamation and rehabilitation; · require the payment of fines for serious environmental offences; and · allow the Chinese Government, at its discretion, to close any facility that fails to comply with environmental regulations or government orders, requiring such facilities to comply or cease operations. Our operations may produce waste water, gas and solid waste materials. Currently, the PRC government is moving toward more rigorous enforcement of applicable laws and regulations as well as the adoption and enforcement of more stringent environmental standards. Our current amounts of capital expenditure for environmental regulatory compliance may not be sufficient if additional regulations are imposed and may need to allocate additional funds for such purpose. If we fail to comply with current or future environmental laws and regulations, we may be required to pay penalties or fines or take corrective actions, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our business operations and financial condition. In addition, China is a signatory to the 1992 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the 1997 Kyoto Protocol, which are intended to limit emissions of greenhouse gases. Efforts to control greenhouse gas emission in China could result in reduced use of coal and coke if customers switch to sources of fuel with lower carbon dioxide emissions, which in turn could reduce the revenues of our businesses and have a material adverse effect on results of operations. Demand for coal and coke and their respective prices are closely linked to consumption patterns of the power and steel industries in China. Any changes in consumption patterns could affect our operations and profitability. Demand for coal and coke and the prices that we will be able to obtain for the products are closely linked to consumption patterns of the power generation and steel industries in China. These consumption patterns are influenced by factors beyond our control, including the demand for electricity; demand for steel; government regulation; technological developments and the location, availability, quality and price of competing sources of coal and coke; alternative fuels, such as natural gas, oil and nuclear power, and alternative energy sources, such as hydroelectric power, wind, geothermal and solar. Any reduction in the demand for coal or coke by the domestic power and steel industries may cause a decline in demand and revenue from our products which would reduce our profitability. If transportation for our coal or coke becomes unavailable or uneconomic for our customers, our ability to sell our products could suffer. Transportation costs represent a significant portion of the total cost of coal and, as a result, the cost of transportation is a critical factor in a customer’s purchasing decision. Increases in transportation costs could make our products a less competitive source of energy or could make some of our offerings less competitive than other sources of coal or coke. We rely upon trucking, national, provincial and local highways and roadways, and the national railway system to transport our products. Regulation of, and the overall cost of using these forms of transportation may be outside of our control, changes in the accessibility and cost of these forms of transportation could affect our ability to deliver our products to our customers, and thus the attractiveness of our products relative to competing alternatives. In addition, these modes of transportation depend upon the support of the national, provincial and local governments for their maintenance and operation, and their reliability will depend on the actions and resources of these governments. Risks inherent to mining could increase the cost of operating our business. Our mining operations are subject to conditions beyond our control that can delay coal deliveries or increase the cost of mining for varying lengths of time. These conditions include weather and natural disasters (such as earthquakes, landslides, flooding, and other similar occurrences), unexpected maintenance problems, key equipment failures, fires, variations in thickness of the layer, or seam, of coal, amounts of overburden, rock and other natural materials, variations in rock and other natural materials and variations in geological conditions. As with all companies that have coal mining operations, our operations are affected by mining conditions such as a deterioration in the quality or thickness of faults and/or coal seams, pressure in mine openings, presence of gas and/or water inflow and propensity to spontaneous combustion, as well as operational risks associated with industrial or engineering activity, such as mechanical breakdowns. Although the Company has conducted geological investigations to evaluate such mining conditions and adapt our mining plans to address them, there can be no assurance that the occurrence of any adverse mining conditions would not result in an increase in our costs of production, a reduction of coal output or the temporary suspension of operations. 23 We may suffer losses resulting from industry-related accidents and lack of insurance. We operate coal mines and related facilities that may be affected by water, gas, fire or structural problems. As a result, our operations, like other coal mining and coking companies, could experience accidents that cause property damage and personal injuries. Although the Company has implemented safety measures at our operations, and provide on-the-job training for our employees, and, in accordance with relevant laws set aside approximately 9.6% of employees’ total remuneration for employees’ health insurance, there can be no assurance that industry-related accidents will not occur in the future. The Company does not currently maintain fire, or other property insurance covering our properties, equipment or inventories. In addition, the Company does not maintain any business interruption insurance or any third party liability insurance to cover claims in respect of personal injury, property or environmental damage arising from accidents on our properties. Any uninsured losses and liabilities incurred by the Company could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For instance, if it occurred, a major mining accident could prompt government-mandated closure of some or all of our mining operations, which would then require us to spend significant resources on remediation which could consume our available capital resources, and until remediated, we would be required to obtain our raw coal inputs from other third party suppliers at a higher price, which would adversely affect our gross margins on coal and coke products. Although the likelihood of a major mining accident would be extremely difficult to predict, we note that we have never suffered a casualty or major mining-related accident since inception, we have never been found to be out of compliance with government safety standards, and management believes our mining operations are safer than the industry average in China. SinoCoking’s ability to operate effectively could be impaired if the Company loses key personnel or fails to attract qualified personnel. The Company manages our business with a number of key personnel, the loss of any of which could have a material adverse effect on operations. In addition, as business develops and expands, the Company believes that our future success will depend greatly on our continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. The Company cannot assure that key personnel will continue to be employed by or that the Company will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. We employ our key personnel on an at-will basis, which means that either the Company or the employee may generally terminate the employment relationship at any time for any reason. Accordingly, if we are not able to effectively fill vacancies of departing key persons, our business may be impaired. Further, we note that our management is heavily dependent on the skills, experience, contacts, and business relationships of our founder and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Jianhua Lv. Accordingly, the loss of our CEO could cause significant impairment to the business of our Company. A downturn in global economic conditions may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our business and results of operations are affected by international, national and regional economic conditions. Financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia have experienced significant disruption in the past year, including among other things, heightened volatility in security prices, constrained liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining values of others. The Company is unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruptions in financial markets, credit availability, and adverse economic conditions throughout the world. These economic developments affect businesses in a number of ways that could result in unfavorable consequences to the Company. Adverse global economic conditions, including within the PRC, could negatively affect commodity prices, or may cause our current or potential customers to delay or reduce purchases which could, in turn, result in reductions in sales volumes or prices, materially and adversely affecting results of operations and cash flows. Volatility and disruption of global financial markets could limit customers' ability to obtain adequate financing to maintain operations and proceed with planned or new capital spending initiatives, leading to a reduction in sales volume that could materially and adversely affect results of operations and cash flow. In addition, a decline in our customers' ability to pay as a result of an economic downturn may lead to increased difficulties in the collection of accounts receivable, higher levels of reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable, and higher operating costs as a percentage of revenues. Certain of our shareholders control a significant amount of our common stock. Approximately 32% of our outstanding common stock is controlled by one holding entity, of which our founder and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Jianhua Lv is a director and beneficiary. Accordingly, Mr. Lv presently has significant relative voting power and influence over any action requiring shareholder approval, including the election of our directors. 24 If the Company makes any acquisitions, it may disrupt or have a negative impact on the business. If the Company makes acquisitions, it could have difficulty integrating personnel, operations of the acquired companies with its own. In addition, the key personnel of the acquired business may not be willing to work for the Company. SinoCoking cannot predict the affect expansion which may have on our core business. Regardless of whether the Company is successful in making one or more acquisitions, the negotiations could disrupt our ongoing business, distract the management and employees and increase our expenses. In addition to the risks described above, acquisitions are accompanied by a number of inherent risks, including, without limitation, the following: · delays and waiting periods associated with required safety inspections, as well as government licensing or permitting procedures; · the difficulty of integrating acquired resources, products, services or operations; · the potential disruption of the ongoing businesses and distraction of the management and the management of acquired companies; · the difficulty of incorporating acquired resources, facilities, operations or products into the existing business; · difficulties in disposing of the excess or idle facilities of an acquired company or business and expenses in maintaining such facilities; · difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; · the potential impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of any integration of new management personnel; · the effect of any government regulations which relate to the business acquired; · potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired businesses and the associated operations, or the need to spend significant amounts to retool, reposition or modify the existing operations; or · the defense of any litigation, whether or not successful, resulting from actions of the acquired company prior to the acquisition. For instance, as a required part of the process of consolidating mines in China, a consolidator is required to undergo safety inspections which apply to its existing and operating mines as well as acquired mines. These government inspections, as well as the required permitting and permitting process, may require substantial time to complete, and this may cause interruptions our coal mining operations. Further, if safety issues are identified by government mine inspection authorities, we may be required to undertake costly and time-consuming remedial measures in order to restore production. Our business could be impaired to the extent that management is unable to succeed in addressing any of these risks or other problems encountered in connection with these acquisitions, many of which cannot be presently identified, these risks and problems could disrupt our ongoing business, distract the management and employees, increase our expenses and adversely affect our results of operations. A large portion of our current revenue is derived from relatively few customers. SinoCoking depended on four major customers for a substantial portion of its revenue in fiscal 2009. Nonrenewal or termination of SinoCoking’s arrangements with these customers may have a materially adverse effect on SinoCoking’s revenue. In the event that any one of its major customers does not renew or terminates its arrangement with SinoCoking, there can be no assurance that SinoCoking will be able to enter into another arrangement similar in scope. Additionally, there can be no assurance that SinoCoking’s business will not remain largely dependent on a limited customer base accounting for a substantial portion of revenue. Risks Related To Doing Business in China Our operations are primarily located in China and may be adversely affected by changes in the policies of the PRC government. The political environment in the PRC and the policies of the PRC government may adversely affect our business operations. The PRC has operated as a socialist state since 1949. In recent years, however, the government has introduced economic reforms aimed at creating a “socialist market economy” and policies have been implemented to allow business enterprises greater autonomy in their operations. Changes in the political leadership of the PRC may have a significant effect on laws and policies related to the current economic reforms program, other policies affecting business and the general political, economic and social environment in the PRC, including the introduction of measures to control inflation, changes in the rate or method of taxation, the imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion and remittances abroad, and foreign investment. These effects could substantially impair our business, profits or prospects. Moreover, economic reforms and growth in the PRC have been more successful in certain provinces than in others, and the continuation or increases of such disparities could affect the political or social stability of the PRC. 25 The PRC government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which companies in China must conduct their business activities. The PRC only recently has permitted greater provincial and local economic autonomy and private economic activities. The government of the PRC has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in the PRC or particular regions thereof, and if this were to occur, we could be required to divest the interests we then hold in Chinese properties or joint ventures. Any such developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, financial condition and prospects. Future inflation in China may inhibit economic activity and adversely affect our operations. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and within which some years with high rates of inflation and deflation, which have led to the adoption by the PRC government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. While inflation has moderated since 1995, high inflation may in the future cause the PRC government to impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in China, and thereby adversely affect our business operations and prospects. We may be restricted from freely converting the Renminbi to other currencies in a timely manner. The Renminbi is not a freely convertible currency at present. We receive all of our revenue in Renminbi, which may need to be converted to other currencies, primarily U.S. dollars, in order to be remitted outside of the PRC. Effective July 1, 1996, foreign currency “current account” transactions by foreign investment enterprises, including sino-foreign joint ventures, are no longer subject to the approval of State Administration of Foreign Exchange (“SAFE,” formerly, “State Administration of Exchange Control”), but need only a ministerial review, according to the Administration of the Settlement, Sale and Payment of Foreign Exchange Provisions promulgated in 1996 (the “FX regulations”). “Current account” items include international commercial transactions, which occur on a regular basis, such as those relating to trade and provision of services. Distributions to joint venture parties also are considered “current account transactions.” Other non-current account items, known as “capital account” items, remain subject to SAFE approval. Under current regulations, we can obtain foreign currency in exchange for Renminbi from swap centers authorized by the government. We do not anticipate problems in obtaining foreign currency to satisfy our requirements; however, there is no assurance that foreign currency shortages or changes in currency exchange laws and regulations by the PRC government will not restrict us from freely converting Renminbi in a timely manner. We may be unable to enforce our rights due to policies regarding the regulation of foreign investments in China. The PRC’s legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes in which decided legal cases have little value as precedents, unlike the common law system prevalent in the United States. The PRC does not have a well-developed, consolidated body of laws governing foreign investment enterprises. As a result, the administration of laws and regulations by government agencies may be subject to considerable discretion and variation, and may be subject to influence by external forces unrelated to the legal merits of a particular matter. China’s regulations and policies with respect to foreign investments are evolving. Definitive regulations and policies with respect to such matters as the permissible percentage of foreign investment and permissible rates of equity returns have not yet been published. Statements regarding these evolving policies have been conflicting and any such policies, as administered, are likely to be subject to broad interpretation and discretion and to be modified, perhaps on a case-by-case basis. The uncertainties regarding such regulations and policies present risks that the Company will not be able to achieve our business objectives. There can be no assurance that we will be able to enforce any legal rights it may have under our contracts or otherwise. We depend upon the acquisition and maintenance of licenses to conduct our business in the PRC. In order to conduct business in the PRC, we need licenses from the appropriate government authorities, including general business licenses and licenses and/or permits specific to our industry. The loss or failure to obtain or maintain these licenses in full force and effect will have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct our business and on our financial condition. Mining licenses in China are generally subject to periodic renewal, and license fees associated with renewal may be subject to negotiation between the Company and the relevant government authorities. The government may in the future decide to increase these fees, or impose levies or surcharges on coal mine and mineral extraction rights. No assurance can be given regarding the timing or magnitude of these types of government actions. 26 Price controls may affect both our revenues and net income. The laws of the PRC provide the government broad power to fix and adjust prices. Although coal and coke are not presently subject to direct price controls by the PRC government, we cannot give any assurance that these products will not be made subject to such controls in the future. To the extent that these products are subject to price controls, our revenue, gross profit, gross margin and net income may be adversely affected since the revenue we derive may become limited and we may face no limitation on our costs. In such a scenario, we may not be able to pass on any increases in costs to our customers. Further, if price controls affect both the revenue and the costs, our ability to operate profitably and the extent of the profitability will be effectively subject to determination by the applicable PRC regulatory authorities. Since our officers and directors reside outside of the United States, it may be difficult for you to enforce your rights against them or enforce United States court judgments against them in the PRC. Our directors and executive officers reside in the PRC and all of our assets are located in the PRC. It may therefore be difficult or impossible for United States investors to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process upon our directors or officers or to enforce judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties of our directors and officers under federal securities laws. Further, it is unclear if extradition treaties now in effect between the United States and the PRC would permit effective enforcement of criminal penalties of the federal securities laws. Since we may not be able to obtain business insurance in the PRC, we may not be protected from risks that are customarily covered by insurance in the United States. At present, business insurance is not readily available in the PRC. To the extent that we suffer a loss of a type which would normally be covered by insurance in the United States, such as product liability and general liability insurance, we would incur significant expenses in both defending any action and in paying any claims that result from a settlement or judgment. Since our funds are held in banks which do not provide insurance, the failure of any bank in which we deposit our funds could affect our ability to continue in business. Banks and other financial institutions in the PRC do not provide insurance for funds held on deposit. As a result, in the event of a bank failure, we may not have access to funds on deposit. Depending upon the amount of money we maintain in a bank that fails, our inability to have access to cash could impair operations, and, if we are not able to access funds to pay our suppliers, employees and other creditors, we may be unable to continue in business. Failure to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits United States companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Foreign companies, including some that may compete with us, are not subject to these prohibitions. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time-to-time in the PRC. We can make no assurance, however, that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which SinoCoking might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, SinoCoking could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Fluctuations in the exchange rate could have an adverse effect upon our business and reported financial results. We conduct our business in Renminbi, thus our functional currency is the Renminbi, while our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, the political situation as well as economic policies and conditions. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade old policy of pegging its currency to the U.S. currency. Under the current policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in an approximate 17% appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar between July 21, 2005 and March 23, 2009. However, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar. To the extent any of our future revenues are denominated in currencies other than the United States dollar, we would be subject to increased risks relating to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations which could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and operating results since operating results are reported in United States dollars and significant changes in the exchange rate could materially impact our reported earnings. 27 Risks Related to the Offering and Securities Offered Since we have broad discretion in how we can use the net proceeds from our recent USD $44 million private placement financing, we may use the net proceeds in ways in which the shareholders might disagree. We intend to use the net proceeds from our recent financing principally for construction of a new coking plant. However, management will have broad flexibility and discretion in applying the net proceeds of the financing. Our shareholders will be relying on the judgment of management with regard to the use of these net proceeds, and will not have the opportunity, as part of their investment decision, to assess whether the proceeds are being used in a manner which in their opinion such proceeds should be used. It is possible that the net proceeds will be invested in a way that does not yield a favorable, or any, return for SinoCoking. The failure of management to use such funds effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. The rights of the holders of common stock may be impaired by the potential issuance of dilutive securities, namely preferred stock, convertible debt, and additional common stock. Our board of directors has the right, without shareholder approval, to issue other dilutive securities with voting, dividend, conversion, liquidation or other rights which could adversely affect the voting power and equity interest of the holders of our common stock. These additional securities could be issued with the right to more than one vote per share, and/or could be utilized as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change of control. The possible impact on takeover attempts could adversely affect the price of the common stock. Although we have no present intention to issue any additional dilutive securities for financing purposes, we may issue such shares in the future. Under our charter and relevant corporate and securities law, the board of directors may approve the issuance of Company common stock in connection with certain types of transactions such as of acquisitions of other companies or mining assets, without obtaining shareholder approval. As a result, additional securities may be issued in the event of such transactions, resulting in dilution of the holdings of all pre-transaction shareholders, even though one or more of the Company’s shareholders may disagree with the Company’s decision to acquire a target or assets. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on the business and operating results and shareholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting. Internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our operating results could be harmed. Under current SEC regulations, we will be required to include an auditor’s report on internal controls over financial reporting in our annual 10-K reports with the SEC. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment, regardless of whether we are required to maintain such controls, could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Although we are not aware of circumstances that would impair our ability to maintain effective internal controls, we have not yet obtained an independent audit of our internal controls, and, as a result, we are not aware of any deficiencies which would result from such an audit. Further, at such time as the Company is required to comply with the internal controls requirements of Sarbanes Oxley, we may incur significant expenses in having our internal controls audited and in implementing any changes which are required. Because of our cash requirements as well as potential government restrictions, we may be unable to pay dividends. The payment of dividends to our shareholders would require payment of dividends by our PRC subsidiaries and controlled companies to SinoCoking Coal and Coke Chemical Industries, Inc. a Florida parent corporation. This, in turn, would require a conversion of Renminbi into US dollars and repatriation of funds to the United States. Although our subsidiary Hongyuan’s classification as a wholly-owned foreign enterprise under PRC law permits it to declare dividends and repatriate our funds to the Florida parent company in the United States, any change in this status or the regulations permitting such repatriation could prevent it from doing so. Any inability to repatriate funds to the Florida parent company would in turn prevent payments of dividends to our shareholders. We do not presently intend to pay dividends. 28 Our stock price may be affected by our failure to meet projections and estimates of earnings developed either by us or by independent securities analysts. Our operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In this event, the market price of our common stock would likely be materially adversely affected. The volatility of and limited trading market in our common stock may make it difficult for the investors to sell the common stock for a positive return on their investment. The public market for our common stock has historically been very volatile. Any future market price for our shares is likely to continue to be very volatile. In addition, there has been little or no market for our stock until very recently, and our common stock has been and may in the future, be thinly traded with relatively high bid-ask spreads. These factors may make it more difficult for our shareholders to sell shares of our common stock, and at prices that our shareholders may expect. We will incur increased costs as a public company which may affect our profitability. Prior to our reverse takeover transaction with Top Favour Limited, SinoCoking operated as a private company in China. As a public company, SinoCoking has incurred and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that it did not as a private company. SinoCoking is subject to the SEC’s rules and regulations relating to public disclosure. SEC disclosures generally involve a substantial expenditure of financial resources. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the SEC, have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. We expect that if we undertake compliance with these new rules and regulations we will significantly increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, we anticipate that we will be required to maintain independent board committees and adopt policies regarding internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures. For example, management may need to increase compensation for senior executive officers, engage senior financial officers able to adopt financial reporting and control procedures, allocate a budget for an investor and public relations program, and increase our financial and accounting staff in order to meet the demands and financial reporting requirements as a public reporting company. Such additional personnel, public relations, reporting and compliance costs will affect our financial results. Generally, we have not paid any cash dividends to our shareholders and no cash dividends will be paid in the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future and it may not have sufficient funds legally available to pay dividends. Even if the funds are legally available for distribution, we may nevertheless decide or may be unable to pay any dividends. We intend to retain all earnings for our operations. If we were to become subject to the penny stock rules, it may have difficulty in selling our common stock. Listed companies with a stock price trading at less than $5.00 per share will be subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements and restrictions on broker-dealers that sell our stock to persons other than established customers and institutional accredited investors. In the event that we become subject to these rules, these rules may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our common stock and may affect your ability to sell any common stock you may own. According to the SEC, the market for penny stocks has suffered in recent years from patterns of fraud and abuse. Such patterns include: · Control of the market for the security by one or a few broker-dealers that are often related to the promoter or issuer; · Manipulation of prices through prearranged matching of purchases and sales and false and misleading press releases; · Boiler room practices involving high pressure sales tactics and unrealistic price projections by inexperienced sales persons; · Excessive and undisclosed bid-ask differentials and markups by selling broker-dealers; and · The wholesale dumping of the same securities by promoters and broker-dealers after prices have been manipulated to a desired level, along with the inevitable collapse of those prices with consequent investor losses. 29 Our common stock is newly listed, has a limited public float, a short trading history, and has been relatively thinly traded. As a result, in the near future and beyond, liquidity in our shares may be limited, and you may be unable to sell at or near the purchased price or at all if you need to sell your shares or otherwise liquidate your holdings. We cannot predict the extent to which an active public market for the common stock will develop or be sustained. Our common stock became listed very recently on NASDAQ in February 2010, and our shares have only a limited amount of trading history. This situation is attributable to a number of factors, including the fact that our common stock has a limited public float, and we are a newly listed public reporting company that is relatively unknown to stock analysts, stock brokers, institutional investors and others in the investment community that generate or influence sales volume. As a consequence, there have been and may be periods of several days or more when trading activity in the shares is or will be minimal or non-existent, as compared to a seasoned issuer that has a large and steady volume of trading activity that will generally support continuous sales without an adverse effect on share price. We cannot provide any assurance that a broader or more active public trading market for our common stock will develop or be sustained in the future, or that any particular level of trading volume in our stock will be sustained. The market price of our common stock is expected to be particularly volatile given our status as a relatively small company with a small float that could lead to wide fluctuations in our share price. The price at which you purchase our common stock may not be indicative of the price that will prevail in the trading market. You may be unable to sell your common stock at or above your purchase price if at all, which may result in substantial losses to you. The market for our common stock is expected to be characterized by significant price volatility when compared to seasoned issuers, and we anticipate that our share price will continue to be more volatile than a seasoned issuer for some time. Volatility in share prices is attributable to a number of factors. In the near future, our common stock is expected to be sporadically and/or thinly traded. As a consequence of this lack of liquidity, the trading of relatively small quantities of shares by our shareholders may disproportionately influence the price of those shares in either direction. The price for our shares could, for example, decline precipitously in the event a large number of our common shares are sold on the market without commensurate demand, as compared to a seasoned issuer which could better absorb those sales without adverse impact on our share price. The following factors also may add to the volatility in the price of our common stock: actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly or annual operating results; adverse outcomes; additions to or departures of key personnel, as well as other items discussed under this Risk Factor section, as well as elsewhere in our reports, filings and public disclosures. Many of these factors are beyond our control and may decrease the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. We cannot make any predictions or projections as to what the prevailing market price for our common stock will be at any time, including as to whether our common stock will sustain any particular trading price, or as to what effect the sale of shares or the availability of common shares for sale at any time will have on the then prevailing market price. Volatility in our common stock price may subject SinoCoking to securities litigation. The future market for our common stock may be characterized by significant price volatility when compared to seasoned issuers, and we expect our share price will be more volatile than a seasoned issuer for the indefinite future. As of the present date, we have a very limited number of freely tradable shares, which may exacerbate volatility and result in exaggerated price changes in the common stock. In the past, plaintiffs have often initiated securities class action litigation against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of our securities. We may, in the future, be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and liabilities and could divert management’s attention and resources. Past activities during the period prior to our reverse takeover transaction on February 5, 2010 relating to our prior business then known as “Ableauctions.com, Inc.” may lead to future liability. Prior to our acquisition of Top Favour Limited (the BVI holding company for SinoCoking’s business) on February 5, 2010, the Company, then named “Ableauctions.com, Inc.” engaged in businesses unrelated to our current operations. Although certain previously controlling shareholders of Ableauctions.com and its related liquidating trust have provided certain indemnifications against any loss, liability, claim, damage or expense arising out of or based on any breach of or inaccuracy in any of their representations, warranties and covenants made regarding such acquisition, including a $1 million reserve fund set aside by a liquidating trust for purposes of paying any indemnification claims by us, any liabilities relating to such prior business against which we are not completely indemnified may have a material adverse effect on us (and indirectly our shareholders) may not be able to benefit from any funds in reserve. 30 Reverse takeover transactions of the type to conducted between the Company (then known as Ableauctions.com) and Top Favour are often heavily scrutinized by the SEC and we may encounter difficulties or delays in obtaining future regulatory approvals. Historically, the SEC and the U.S. national exchanges have not generally favored transactions in which a privately-held company merges into a public reporting company with listed securities. On June 29, 2005, the SEC adopted rules dealing with private company mergers into dormant or inactive public companies. Although our Company was not a dormant inactive public company at the time of the reverse takeover transaction, we anticipate that the Company will be scrutinized carefully by the SEC and possibly by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. Further, the SEC or other regulatory authority may unexpectedly assert a different interpretation of its rules, than the interpretation relied upon, used by, or considered reasonable the Company and its advisors, and by other companies conducting similar or analogous transactions, which could increase the cost of, or adversely affect our ability to, file and achieve effectiveness for our registration statements, or interfere with or negate the ability of the Company its shareholders to rely upon Rule 144 or similar rules. Future sales of shares of our common stock may decrease the price for such shares. Actual sales, or the prospect of sales by our shareholders, may have a negative effect on the market price of the shares of our common stock. We may also register certain shares of our common stock that are subject to outstanding convertible securities, if any, or reserved for issuance under our stock option plans. Once such shares are registered, they can be freely sold in the public market upon exercise of the options. At any given time, if any of our shareholders either individually or in the aggregate cause a large number of securities to be sold in the public market, or if the market perceives that these holders intend to sell a large number of securities, such sales or anticipated sales could result in a substantial reduction in the trading price of shares of our common stock and could also impede our ability to raise future capital. The elimination of monetary liability against our directors, officers and employees under state law and the existence of indemnification rights to our directors, officers and employees may result in substantial expenditures by us and may discourage lawsuits against our directors, officers and employees. Our articles of incorporation contain specific provisions that eliminate or limit the liability of directors for monetary damages to us and our shareholders, and we are prepared to give such indemnification to our directors and officers to the extent permissible under state law. We may also maintain or enter into, from time to time, contractual agreements that obligate us to indemnify our officers under employment agreements, and similar contractual agreements with our directors. The foregoing indemnification obligations could result in us incurring substantial expenditures to cover the cost of settlement or damage awards against directors and officers, in the event of actions against our officers and directors, which we may be unable to recoup. These provisions and resultant costs may also discourage us from bringing a lawsuit against directors and officers for breaches of their fiduciary duties, and may similarly discourage the filing of derivative litigation by our shareholders against the directors and officers even though such actions, if successful, might otherwise benefit the Company and its shareholders. The market price for our stock may be volatile. The market price for our stock may be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to such factors as: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; · changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; · conditions in the commodities markets; · changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other companies in our industry; · announcements by us or our competitors of new or competitive products, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · addition or departure of key personnel; · fluctuations of foreign exchange rates between RMB and the U.S. dollar; · commercial litigation; and · general economic or political conditions in China. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our stock. We may need additional capital, and the sale of additional shares or other equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents, anticipated cash flow from operations, availability of borrowings under the new loan, and the net proceeds from this offering will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for the near future. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If our resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain additional credit. The sale of additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. Incurring indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to it, if at all. 31 The registration and potential sale, either pursuant to our prospectus or pursuant to Rule 144, by certain selling security holders of a significant number of shares could encourage short sales by third parties. There may be significant downward pressure on our stock price caused by the sale or potential sale of a significant number of shares by certain of selling security holders pursuant to the Company’s effective registration statement on Form S-1 and prospectus or under Rule 144, which could allow short sellers of our stock an opportunity to take advantage of any decrease in the value of our stock. The presence of short sellers in our common stock may further depress the price of our common stock. If the selling security holders sell a significant number of shares of common stock, the market price of our common stock may decline. Furthermore, the sale or potential sale of the offered securities pursuant to the prospectus and the depressive effect of such sales or potential sales could make it difficult for us to raise funds from other sources. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 