ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We are dependent on the supply of fresh seafood in our production of processed seafood products and disruptions in the supply of fresh seafood could adversely affect our business operations. We use fresh seafood as the primary ingredient in our processed seafood products. Our processed seafood products accounted for approximately 32.7% and 41.0% of our sales in the fiscal years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Our production of processed seafood products is largely dependent on the continuous supply of fresh seafood, which in turn could be affected by a large number of factors, including but not limited to, environmental factors, the availability of seafood stock, weather conditions, water contamination, the policies and regulations of the governments of the relevant territories where such fishing is carried out, the ability of the fishing companies and fishermen that supply us to continue their operations and pressure from environmental or animal rights groups. Specifically, fishing activities in waters around the PRC are restricted in certain months to ensure sustainable aquatic resources. In particular, the PRC Ministry of Agriculture imposes restrictions against fishing in the South China Sea in the months of June and July. There is no assurance that the PRC government may not impose more stringent fishing regulations, including but not limited to longer or more frequent periods that restrict fishing. Such restrictions against fishing or unfavorable weather conditions have a direct impact on the availability of the raw materials required for the production of our processed seafood products, and could lead to a shortage and/or an increase in the prices of our raw materials. Any shortage in the supply of or increase in the prices of the raw materials for our processed seafood products will adversely affect our business, profitability and financial condition. A disaster similar to the nuclear disaster in Japan that occurred in 2011 can also affect the continuous supply and pricing of our supply of the fresh materials, although we have not experienced any material problems with the supply or pricing of such supply to date. Our profitability will be affected by fluctuations in the prices of our major raw materials. Our financial performance may be affected by changes in production costs brought about by fluctuations in the prices of our raw materials. Our major raw materials are fresh seafood which accounted for approximately 73.9% and 72.9% of our total cost of revenue of processed seafood products in the fiscal years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The prices of our major raw materials may fluctuate due to changes in supply and demand conditions. Any shortage in supply or upsurge in demand of our major raw materials may lead to an increase in prices, which may adversely affect our profitability due to increased production costs and lower profit margins. We are dependent on several major customers. In the event any one of these major customers ceases to purchase or reduce their purchases from us, and we are unable to secure new contracts, our sales will be adversely affected. Our top five major customers accounted for approximately 65.7% and 51.6% of our sales in the fiscal years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The largest customer accounted for 23.5% and 25.3% of our sales in the fiscal years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. In the event these customers do not continue to purchase from us or reduce their purchases from us or develop their own abilities to manufacture the products that we sell to them, and we are unable to secure new contracts or new customers that can replace the loss of these customers within a short time frame, our business and profitability may be adversely affected. Please see the section “Major Customers” for more details. We are dependent on certain major suppliers for our raw materials. In the event we are no longer able to secure raw materials from these suppliers and are unable to find alternative sources of supply at similar or more competitive rates, our operations and profitability will be adversely affected. For the production of our processed seafood and algae-based beverage products and the trading of marine catch, we rely on our major suppliers for a significant portion of the supply of raw materials. Purchases from our top five suppliers of raw materials accounted for approximately 95.7% and 88.0% of our total purchases of raw materials in the fiscal years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. In the event that we are unable to secure our raw materials from these suppliers and we are unable to find alternative sources of supply at similar or more competitive rates, our business and operations will be adversely affected. Please see the section “Major Suppliers” for more details. Our profitability and continued growth is dependent on our ability to yield commercially viable products, to enhance our product range and expand our customer base. The seafood processing industry is highly competitive. The growth potential of the seafood processing industry is dependent on population growth and consumer preferences. Therefore, we believe that our profitability and continued growth is dependent on our ability to expand our customer base in existing and new markets by introducing new products that are fast growing and profitable in the populations that we serve, as well as our ability to develop commercially viable products through our product development efforts. If we do not succeed in these efforts, the growth of our sales may slow down and adversely affect our profitability. Please refer to the section “Research and Development” for further details of our research and development efforts. 27 Since we do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers and customers there is no guarantee that our suppliers will continue to supply us with raw materials, or that our customers will continue to purchase our products. We do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers and our customers. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be able to obtain sufficient quantities of raw materials in a timely manner from our existing suppliers on acceptable terms, or that our existing customers will continue to purchase our products on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. In the event that we are unable to source for new suppliers or new customers on terms that are acceptable to us, our business and operations will be adversely affected. There is no assurance that we will be able to execute our future plans successfully, or that our future plans will result in commercial success. We intend to, inter alia and expand our operations and production capacity by the use of the new cold storage facilities and through a series of advertising and promotional campaigns. The facilities commenced operations in July 2012. Our expansion plans involve a number of risks, including inter alia the costs of investment in fixed assets, costs of working capital tied up in inventories, as well as other working capital requirements. Our expansion will also depend on our ability to secure new customers and/or sufficient orders. Failure to secure new customers or sufficient orders or to meet our customers’ orders would materially and adversely affect our business and financial performance. There is no assurance that our future plans will result in commercial success. If we are unable to execute our expansion plans successfully, our business and financial performance would be materially and adversely affected. Changes in consumer preferences or discretionary consumer spending could adversely impact our results. Our continued growth and success depends in part on the popularity of our products. Sales of our processed seafood products, marine catch and algae-based beverage products as a percentage of our total sales for the period under review were as follows: As at December 31, Products 2012 2011 (%) (%) Processed seafood products 32.7 41.0 Marine catch 37.9 38.4 Algae-based beverage products 29.4 20.6 Shifts in consumer preferences or dieting habits in the PRC away from marine seafood products or algae-based beverage products will materially affect our business. Consumer preferences regarding health and food safety are evolving in the PRC and the success of our food products depends on our ability to identify the tastes and dietary habits of consumers and to offer products that appeal to their preferences, including concerns of consumers regarding health and wellness, food safety, product attributes, and ingredients. In addition, our continued success depends, in general, on the economic conditions, disposable income and consumer confidence in the countries in which we sell our products, all of which can affect discretionary consumer spending in such countries. Adverse changes in these factors would reduce the flow of customers and limit our pricing which will reduce our profitability. Our business activities are subject to certain laws and regulations and our operations may be affected if we should fail to have in force the requisite licenses and permits. We are required to obtain various licenses and permits in order to conduct our business of production and export of processed seafood products. These include the Hygiene Registration Certificate, which is a requirement in order to carry on the production of food products in the PRC, as well as the HACCP certificate and EU export registration, which is a requirement in order to export our processed seafood products to certain countries. Our business is also subject to applicable laws and regulations. Please see the section “Government Regulations” of this Form 10-K for a summary of the material laws and regulations that apply to our Company. Any failure to comply with the conditions stipulated in our licenses and permits may lead to their revocation or non-renewal. Any failure to observe the applicable laws and regulations may lead to the termination or suspension of some or all of our business activities or penalties being imposed on us. The occurrence of any of these events may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 28 Our processed seafood products may be illegally tampered with such that they are rendered unfit for consumption and have to be recalled and destroyed. Our processed seafood products are packed in plastic materials that can be illegally tampered with. Illegal tampering of our processed seafood products could result in such products being rendered unfit for consumption or cause them to fail to meet customer specifications, health and/or safe handling requirements. This may lead to a loss of customer confidence in our products, affect our reputation, cause product recalls and/or product destruction. In addition, we may incur substantial litigation costs and may be ordered to compensate consumers in the event of any illness or death caused by the consumption of an illegally tampered seafood product. In the event that our processed seafood products are recalled or destroyed as a result of illegal tampering or a claim is made against us arising from the consumption of our products, our reputation, business goodwill and sales will be adversely affected. Product or raw material deterioration will lead to loss of sales, higher costs, negative publicity, and payment of compensation to our customers and/or product liability claims. Our raw materials, frozen and processed seafood products, being perishable in nature, may deteriorate due to various reasons such as malfunctioning cold storage facilities, delivery delays or poor handling. This may lead to a delay in production or delivery of our products, a loss in revenue, costs incurred in the purchase of replacement raw materials and payment of compensation to our customers. Any deterioration in our raw materials or processed seafood products could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and reputation. Currently, we do not have any product liability insurance in respect of our products. We believe that premiums for product liability insurances are high compared to the risk of claims. In the event that the consumption of our processed seafood products causes harm, illness or death to a consumer of our products, whether as a result of product deterioration, spoiling, sabotage, willful action, omission or negligence, we may be liable to complaints, lawsuits and claims from consumers of our products which in turn could generate negative publicity and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and our operations. Outbreak of disease or widespread contamination in any of the raw materials that we use in our production or any food scares may lead to a loss in consumer confidence and reduce the demand for our processed seafood products. One of our competitive strengths is our established brand name and track record. We have received several awards and certificates for our high quality products, including the “Green Food” award. Any outbreak of disease or widespread contamination in any of the raw materials that we use in the production of our products or food scares in the markets in which our processed seafood products are manufactured or sold may have an adverse impact on our business as it may lead to a loss in consumer confidence and reduce the demand of our processed seafood products. It may also affect our sources of supply and we may have to look for alternative sources of supply which may be more costly, or which may not be available. If this develops into actual events, our operations and profitability will be adversely affected. Any failure to meet food safety regulation may result in the suspension of licenses, accreditations or the loss of our ability to sell our products. The manufacture and marketing of food products is heavily regulated in the PRC under the Food Safety Law enacted in 2009. If we fail to comply with the Food Safety Law or any other applicable laws and regulations, we may be subject to investigations, criminal sanctions or civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, prohibitions on exporting, seizures or debarments from government contracts or the loss of liquor licenses. The cost of compliance or the consequences of non-compliance, including debarments, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, governmental units may make changes in the regulatory frameworks within which we operate that may require either the corporation as a whole or individual businesses to incur substantial increases in costs in order to comply with such laws and regulations. In May 2011, inspectors of the government of Taiwan detected dangerous levels of industrial plasticizers in sports drinks and soft drinks, used to substitute for palm oil as clouding agents in drinks, with levels far in excess of the daily allowed intake. One plasticizer, known as DEHP, is a possible carcinogen, and thought capable of wreaking havoc with children’s reproductive organs. Since then, the plasticizers have been found in a range of foods and drinks. China, Hong Kong, South Korea and the Philippines have recalled beverage bottles suspected of contamination imported from Taiwan. Although none of our products were subject to the recall, the beverage products sector in the East Asia region was adversely affected by the food scandal, and new legislation with higher food safety standard of beverage products may be implemented in the PRC. The DEHP crisis may affect our beverage products business as a result of any failure to comply with the new standard or adverse changes in the beverage products sector. 29 Any failure to meet health and hygiene standards may result in the suspension of licenses, accreditations or the loss of our ability to import and export our products. We are subject to annual checks carried out by the General Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine of the PRC (CIQ). The CIQ’s annual check encompasses the inspection of food preparation, production and processing operations, as well as health checks on our employees. Failure to meet the required standards may result in our being required to take remedial measures to meet the health and hygiene standards, or in extreme cases, the cancellation or suspension of the license(s) and accreditation(s) required for us to carry on our operations. In the event that this should occur, our operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected and could lead to a loss in customer confidence in our products. In addition, the CIQ makes random inspections on the processed seafood and algae-based beverage products that we export. Failure to meet the required standards of hygiene may affect our ability to export our processed seafood and algae-based beverage products and meet our customers’ orders on time. It may also lead to a restriction on our ability to export our processed seafood and algae-based beverage products which will materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operations. We bear the risk of loss in shipment of our marine catch products to overseas customers and have no insurance to cover such loss. Under the shipping terms of our standard customer contracts, we bear the risk of loss in shipment of our products and do not insure this risk. We believe the risk is not material because export sales only represented 1.8% and 0.1% of our total sales for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and the shipping companies that we use carry adequate insurance or are sufficiently solvent to cover any loss in shipment. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that we will be adequately reimbursed upon the loss of a significant shipment of our products. We are dependent on our Executive Directors and Executive Officers. Any loss in their services without suitable replacement may adversely affect our operations. Our success to date has been largely due to the contribution of Pengfei Liu, our Executive Chairman and CEO. Mr. Liu is the founder of our Company, and has spearheaded our expansion and growth. He is responsible for our operations, marketing, public relations, strategic planning and development of new products and markets. Our continued success is dependent, to a large extent, on our ability to retain his services. The continued success of our business is also dependent on our key management and operational personnel. We rely on their experience in the processed seafood and marine catch industry, product development, sales and marketing and on their relationships with our customers and suppliers. The loss of the services of any of our executive directors or executive officers without suitable replacement or the inability to attract and retain qualified personnel will adversely affect our operations and hence, our revenue and profits. We are dependent on our customers’ ability to maintain and expand their sales and distribution channels. Should these distributors be unsuccessful in maintaining and expanding their distribution channels, our results of operations will be adversely affected. Demand for our products from end-consumers and our prospects depend on the retail growth and penetration rate of our products to end-consumers. Sales of our products are conducted mainly through distributors, over whom we have limited control. As of December 31, 2012, our distribution network is comprised of 18 exclusive distributors for our dried processed seafood products located in certain provinces and our marine catch trading segment, and seven exclusive distributors for our algae-based beverage products located in two provinces. These distributors sub-distribute our dried processed seafood products to about 3,500 retail points and our algae-based beverage products to about 14,000 retail points, including major supermarkets. We are thus dependent on the sales and distribution channels of our distributors for broadening the geographic reach of our products. Should these distributors be unable to maintain and expand their distribution channels, our results of operations and financial position will be adversely affected. Failure to compete effectively in a competitive environment may affect our profitability. We operate in the highly competitive processed seafood industry. We believe that our major competitors include international and domestic seafood processors. Some of these competitors may have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources, stronger brand name recognition and larger existing customer base than we do. 30 We also believe that these competitors may have the ability to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or may adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements or may devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sales of their products than us. There is no assurance that we will be able to continue competing successfully against present and future competitors. We believe that important factors to achieving success in our industry include maintaining customer loyalty by cultivating long-term customer relationships, achieving consistent product renewal and maintaining the quality of our products. If we are unable to attain these, we may lose our customers to our competitors and this will adversely affect our market share. Increased competition may also force us to lower our prices, thus reducing our profit margins and affecting our financial performance and condition. Such competition may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Please refer to the section captioned “Description of Business - Competition” for further details as to our present competitors. Any outbreak of earthquake, tsunami, adverse weather or oceanic conditions or other calamities may result in disruption in our operations and could adversely affect our sales. We are based in Fujian province which is situated in southeast China on the coast of the East China Sea. Fujian is a vital navigation hub between the East China Sea and South China Sea, and is also rich in agricultural and marine resources. Our main raw materials for our marine catch business come from the Taiwan Strait, which is also where we conduct our marine catch operations. In March 2011, the northern region of Japan experienced a severe earthquake followed by a tsunami. The earthquake and tsunami caused extensive and severe structural damage in Japan, including heavy damage to roads and railways as well as fires in many areas, and damage to several nuclear reactors. Although to date the damage caused by the earthquake tsunami or radiation leaks have not significantly damaged our access to or price of materials or the quality of such raw materials, there can be no assurance that such access, price or quality may not be affected. In addition, public concern about seafood contamination can also adversely affect our sales of seafood products as a result of consumers’ perception of food safety issues resulting from nuclear radiation leaks in Japan. Due to the location of our business, we may be at risk of experiencing another tsunami, earthquake or other adverse weather or oceanic conditions. This may result in the breakdown of our facilities, such as our cold storage facilities, which will in turn lead to deterioration of our products with the potential for spoilage. This could adversely affect our ability to fulfill our sales orders and adversely affect our profitability. Adverse weather conditions affecting the fishing grounds where the fishing vessels chartered by us operate such as storms, cyclones and typhoons or cataclysmic events such as tsunamis may also decrease the volume of our fish catches or may even hamper our fishing operations. Our operations may also be adversely affected by major climatic disruptions such as El Nino which in the past has caused significant decreases in seafood catches worldwide. We may be affected by global climate change or by legal, regulatory or market responses to such changes. The growing political and scientific sentiment is that increased concentrations of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere are influencing global weather patterns. Fresh products, including seafood products used as our raw materials, are vulnerable to adverse weather conditions, including windstorms, floods, drought and temperature extremes, which are quite common but difficult to predict and may be influenced by global climate change. Similarly, changing weather patterns, along with the increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions, could impact the availability or increase the cost of key raw materials that we use to produce our products. Concern over climate change, including global warming, has led to legislative and regulatory initiatives directed at limiting greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. For example, proposals that would impose mandatory requirements on GHG emissions may be considered by policy makers in the territories that we operate. Laws enacted that directly or indirectly affect our production, distribution, packaging, cost of raw materials, fuel, ingredients, and water could all impact our business and financial results. We are in the business of processing, distributing and selling processed seafood products and marine catch. Thus, a dramatic reduction in fish resources may adversely affect our business. We are in the business of processing, distributing, and selling processed seafood products, as well as selling marine catch. As such, 100% of our raw materials are obtained through fishing. Due to over-fishing, the stocks of certain species of fish may be dwindling and to counteract such over-fishing, governments may take action that may be detrimental to our ability to conduct our operations. If the solution proffered or imposed by the governments controlling the fishing grounds either restrict our ability to procure seafood supply or if such action limits the types, quantities and species of fish that we are able to procure or catch, our operations and prospects may be adversely affected. 31 Our purchase of the beverage business involves the risks of entering into a new business. On January 1, 2010, we purchased Xianghe, a beverage company, and entered into a new business segment where we needed to rely on the current management for the business acquired. Xianghe is a Fujian based manufacturer of the branded Hi-Power algae-based soft drinks. We did not have prior experience in the beverage business and the success of Xianghe is subject to all of the uncertainties regarding the development of a new business. Although we have started integrating the product into Mingxiang’s distribution network and further expanded the distribution into other untapped areas, there can be no assurance regarding the successful distribution and market acceptance of the beverage products. Goodwill and intangible assets were the result of the acquisition of Xianghe. The activities of the algae-based drink business are considered as a separate reporting unit. The Company evaluates the valuation of goodwill and intangible assets from time to time according to the performance of the business reporting unit. Given the financial results of the drink business were underperformed compared to the Company’s forecasts in 2012, there were impairment charges of $2.6 million and $2.2 million recorded for goodwill and intangible assets, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2012. The Company may incur more impairment losses if the new business continues to underperform in the future. Please refer to Note 2 of the accompanying financial statements for further details. We may not be able to respond successfully to changes in the highly competitive beverage marketplace domestically and internationally. We operate in the highly competitive beverage industry and face strong competition from other general and specialty beverage companies. Our response to continued and increased competitor and customer consolidations and marketplace competition may result in lower than expected net pricing of our products. Our ability to gain or maintain share of sales or gross margins may be limited by the actions of our competitors, who may have advantages in setting their prices because of lower costs. Competitive pressures in the markets in which we operate may cause channel and product mix to shift away from more profitable channels and packages. The beverage industry is highly competitive. The principal areas of competition are pricing, packaging, development of new products and flavors and marketing campaigns. Our products will compete with a wide range of drinks produced by a relatively large number of manufacturers, any of which have substantially greater financial, marketing and distribution resources than we do. Important factors affecting our ability to compete successfully include taste and flavor of products, trade and consumer promotions, rapid and effective development of new, unique cutting edge products, attractive and different packaging, branded product advertising and pricing. We will also compete for distributors who will concentrate on marketing our products over those of our competitors, provide stable and reliable distribution and secure adequate shelf space in retail outlets. Competitive pressures in the healthy beverage market could cause our products to be unable to gain market share, or we could experience price erosion, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results. We compete with major international beverage companies that operate in multiple geographic areas, as well as numerous firms that are primarily local in operation. Our ability to gain or maintain share of sales or gross margins in the Chinese markets and ability to grow the business in global market may be limited as a result of actions by competitors. We compete not only for customer acceptance but for maximum marketing efforts by multi-brand licensed bottlers, brokers and distributors, many of which have a principal affiliation with competing companies and brands. Certain large companies such as The Coca-Cola Company and Pepsico Inc. market and/or distribute products in that market segment. Our beverage business is dependent on sales in Fujian province and any significant disruption in sales in this province could adversely affect our beverage business. During the year ended December 31, 2012, approximately 73.2% of our sales of the beverage products were in Fujian province. Although we have experienced strong growth in sales in Fujian province and have expanded our sales to Zhejiang province and intend to expand our sales to other provinces, any significant disruption in sales in Fujian could adversely affect our beverage business. Our beverage business is heavily regulated by China State Food and Drug Administration (“SFDA”) and other government agencies for the production and packaging of beverage products, and failure to comply these regulation may adversely affected our beverage business. The production, distribution and sale in China of our beverage products are the production, distribution and sale in the Chinese market of our products are subject to the PRC State Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, state consumer protection laws, the Occupational Safety and Health Act, various environmental statutes; and various other state and local statutes and regulations applicable to the production, transportation, sale, safety, packaging, advertising, labeling and ingredients of such products. Although we expect that we will comply with all relevant regulations and rules in our production and distribution of beverage products, there is risk that those regulations may be violated and capital expenditures, net income or competitive position as a result of the violation may be adversely affected. 32 Water scarcity and poor quality could negatively impact our beverage production costs and capacity. Water is the main ingredient in our beverage product. It is also a limited resource in many parts of the world, facing unprecedented challenges from overexploitation, increasing pollution and poor management. As demand for water continues to increase in China and as the quality of available water deteriorates, our system may incur increasing production costs or face capacity constraints which could adversely affect our profitability or net operating revenues in the long run. Changes in the nonalcoholic beverages business environment could impact our financial results. The nonalcoholic beverages business environment is rapidly evolving as a result of, among other things, changes in consumer preferences, changes in consumer lifestyles, increased consumer information and competitive product and pricing pressures. If we are unable to successfully adapt to this rapidly changing environment, our net income, share of sales and volume growth could be negatively affected. Adverse weather conditions could reduce the demand for our beverage products. The sales of our beverage products are influenced to some extent by weather conditions in the markets in which we operate. Unusually cold weather during the summer months may have a temporary effect on the demand for our beverage products and contribute to lower sales, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations for those periods. We are dependent on one major manufacturer for production of beverage products. For the production of our beverage products, we rely on one manufacturer for all of the production of our beverage products. We believe that alternate manufacturers are available but there may be some disruption in supplies until we can obtain product from such manufacturer. In the event we are no longer able to secure product from this manufacturer, our operations and profitability of the beverage business will be adversely affected. We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers which may cause us to make larger allowances for doubtful trade receivables or incur bad debt write-offs. Our customers may default on their payments to us. Although we review the credit risk of our customers regularly, such risks will nevertheless arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to anticipate or control, such as an economic downturn. Our trade receivables turnover days were approximately 86 and 81 days in 2012 and 2011, respectively. Our allowances for doubtful trade receivables as at December 31, 2012 and 2011 were approximately $272,000 and $345,000, respectively; and at about 0.5% of our gross trade receivables. As a result of this credit risk exposure of our customers defaulting on their payments to us, we may have to make larger allowances for doubtful trade receivables or incur bad debt write-offs, both of which may have an adverse impact on our profitability. We may be subject to foreign exchange risk and may incur losses arising from exchange differences upon settlement. We sell our processed seafood products, marine catch and ices, and algae-based beverage products mainly to local customers. Direct exports as a percentage of our sales ranged between 0.1% to 1.8% during the periods under review. Our sales are denominated in RMB and US$, while our purchases are denominated in RMB. For the fiscal year of 2012 and 2011, the percentages of our sales denominated in RMB and US$ were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2012 2011 (%) (%) RMB 98.2 99.9 US$ 1.8 0.1 33 We may incur losses arising from exchange differences upon settlement. To the extent that our sales, purchases and expenses are not naturally matched in the same currency and there are timing differences between collections and payments, we will be exposed to any adverse fluctuations in the exchange rates between the various foreign currencies and the RMB. Any restrictions over the conversion or timing of conversion of foreign currencies may also expose us to adverse fluctuations in exchange rates. As a result, our earnings may be materially and adversely affected. On July 21, 2005, the Renminbi was unpegged against the US$ and pegged against a basket of currencies on a “managed float currency regime”. As at December 31, 2012, the closing exchange rate was approximately US$1.00 to RMB6.3011. There is no assurance that the PRC’s foreign exchange policy will not be further altered. In the event that the PRC’s policy is altered, significant fluctuations in the exchange rates of RMB against the US$ will arise. As a result, we will be subject to significant foreign exchange exposure and in the event that we incur foreign exchange losses, our financial performance will be adversely affected. Please refer to the section “Description of Business - Foreign Exchange Exposure” for further details. Our products and brand name may be replicated or counterfeited which will in turn have an adverse effect on our Company and we may be affected by intellectual property rights disputes. We have registered certain trademarks in the PRC, details of which are set out in the section “Intellectual Property” of our Form 10-K. Despite the protection of our trademark under the intellectual property laws of the PRC, such laws may not be adequate or effectively enforced against third parties who may violate our proprietary rights by illegally using our trademarks or our brand name. Our products and brand names may be replicated or counterfeited, which in turn may adversely affect our reputation and brand image. Policing unauthorized use of our trademarks or brand is difficult and costly, particularly in countries where the laws may not fully protect our proprietary rights. There can be no assurance that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate. Any unauthorized use of our trademarks and brand may damage our brand, recognition and reputation. This may lead to our customers losing confidence in our brand and products, which, in turn, may lead to a loss in our business and hence sales. Our business may be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. Negative market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provision for credit losses. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us. Furthermore, should China’s economic growth slow or should China’s economy contract, or the economies of the provinces that are our principal markets experience slower growth or economic contraction, consumer demand for our products and/or our ability to charge desired prices for our products could be adversely affected. Worldwide economic conditions may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. These conditions make it difficult for us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and could cause us to slow or reduce spending on our research and development activities. Furthermore, during challenging economic times, we may face issues gaining timely access to financings or capital infusion, which could result in an impairment of our ability to continue our business activities. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent economic recovery, worldwide, Europe, United States, or in our industry. These and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. During 2008 and 2009, worldwide economic conditions deteriorated in many countries and regions, resulting in weak equity markets, tightening of business credit and liquidity, a contraction of consumer credit, business failures, increased unemployment and declines in consumer confidence and spending. Despite more positive trends beginning in the second half of 2009, the current turmoil in the sovereign debt markets as a result of the European debt crisis from 2011 has resulted in general market uncertainty and in worsening economic conditions particularly in Europe. If global economic and financial market conditions remain uncertain and/or weak for an extended period of time, any of the following factors, among others, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations: l slower consumer spending may result in reduced demand for our products, reduced orders from customers for our products, order cancellations, lower revenues, increased inventories, and lower gross margins; l continued volatility in the global markets and fluctuations in exchange rates for foreign currencies and contracts in foreign currencies could negatively impact our reported financial results and condition; l continued volatility in the prices for commodities and raw materials we use in our products could have a material adverse effect on our costs, gross margins, and ultimately our profitability; l if our customers experience declining revenues, or experience difficulty obtaining financing in the capital and credit markets to purchase our products, this could result in reduced orders for our products, order cancellations, inability of customers to timely meet their payment obligations to us, extended payment terms, higher accounts receivable, reduced cash flows, greater expense associated with collection efforts and increased bad debt expense; 34 l a severe financial difficulty experienced by our customers may cause them to become insolvent or cease business operations, which could reduce the availability of our products to consumers; and l any difficulty or inability on the part of manufacturers of our products or other participants in our supply chain in obtaining sufficient financing to purchase raw materials or to finance general working capital needs may result in delays or non-delivery of shipments of our products. The use of estimates and valuations in measuring fair value involve significant estimation and judgment by management. We make various estimates that affect reported amounts and disclosures. Broadly, those estimates are used in accounting for goodwill and intangible assets. Estimates are based on available information and judgment. Therefore, actual results could differ from our estimates and that difference could have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. During the year ended December 31, 2012, the algae-based drink revenues were lower than expected and the corresponding selling expenses were higher than expected compared to the Company’s forecasts. Although the drink business significantly improved revenues during 2012 compared to 2011, the Company incurred significant sales and marketing expenses during the year to support this revenue growth, which resulted in a significant operating loss for the algae-based drink business. As a result, during our third quarter, we determined there was a triggering event and recorded a goodwill impairment loss of 100% or $2.6 million based on the preliminary results indicating a carrying value of our goodwill was greater than the fair market value. As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, our goodwill balance is $nil and $2.6 million, respectively. Subsequently, the independent valuation expert completed the complete drink business valuation and management concluded that the fair value of the intangible assets as of December 31, 2012, was $15.6 million. The valuation report included a number of significant management assumptions regarding the future growth and profitability of our drink business. This resulted in an intangible assets impairment loss of $2.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, our intangible assets balance is $15.6 million and $20.2 million, respectively. We could experience additional impairment charges related to the Company's intangible assets, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA Our auditor, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in China, is not permitted to be subject to inspection by Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, and as such, investors may be deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Our independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the SEC, as an auditor of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or PCAOB, is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because our auditor is located in China, a jurisdiction where PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the PRC authorities, our auditor, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in China, is currently not inspected by PCAOB. Inspections of other firms that PCAOB has conducted outside of China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. The inability of PCAOB to conduct inspections of independent registered public accounting firms operating in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. Our operations in the PRC are subject to the laws and regulations of the PRC and any changes in the laws or policies of the PRC may have a material impact on our operations and financial performance. As our processed seafood products, marine catch and algae-based beverage products businesses are carried out in the PRC, we are subject to and have to operate within the framework of the PRC legal system. Any changes in the laws or policies of the PRC or the implementation thereof, for example in areas such as foreign exchange controls, tariffs, trade barriers, taxes, export license requirements and environmental protection, may have a material impact on our operations and financial performance. 35 The corporate affairs of our companies in the PRC are governed by their articles of association and the corporate and foreign investment laws and regulations of the PRC. The principles of the PRC laws relating to matters such as the fiduciary duties of directors and other corporate governance matters and foreign investment laws in the PRC are relatively new. Hence, the enforcement of investors or shareholders' rights under the articles of association of a PRC company and the interpretation of the relevant laws relating to corporate governance matters remain largely untested in the PRC. Introduction of new laws or changes to existing laws by the PRC government may adversely affect our business if stricter regulations are imposed on the overseas business practices of PRC companies. Our operations are carried out through our wholly-owned subsidiaries which are located in the PRC. As such, the laws of the PRC govern our businesses and operations. The PRC legal system is a codified system of written laws, regulations, circulars, administrative directives and internal guidelines. The PRC government is still in the process of developing its legal system to encourage foreign investment and to align itself with global practices and standards. As the PRC economy is undergoing development at a faster rate than the changes to its legal system, some degree of uncertainty exists in connection with whether and how existing laws and regulations apply to certain events and circumstances. Some of the laws and regulations and the interpretation, implementation and enforcement of such laws and regulations are also at an experimental stage and are subject to policy changes. Hence, precedents on the interpretation, implementation and enforcement of certain PRC laws are limited and court decisions in the PRC do not have binding effect on lower courts. Accordingly, the outcome of dispute resolutions and litigation may not be as consistent or predictable as in other more developed jurisdictions and it may be difficult to obtain swift and equitable enforcement of the laws in the PRC, or to obtain enforcement of a judgment by a court or another jurisdiction. In particular, on August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory bodies, including the Ministry of Commerce (MOFCOM) and the China Securities Regulatory Commission (“CSRC”), jointly promulgated the new “Regulations on Foreign Investors Merging with or Acquiring Domestic Enterprises”, which took effect on September 8, 2006 (“2006 M&A Rules”). The 2006 M&A Rules regulate, inter alia, the acquisition of PRC domestic companies by foreign investors. On September 21, 2006, the CSRC promulgated the “Guidelines on Domestic Enterprises Indirectly Issuing or Listing and Trading their Stocks on Overseas Stock Exchanges” (the “CSRC Guidelines”). Under the 2006 M&A Rules and the CSRC Guidelines, the listing of overseas special purpose vehicles (“SPV”) which are controlled by PRC entities or individuals are subject to the prior approval of the CSRC. The 2006 M&A Rules and the CSRC Guidelines do not provide any express requirement for an SPV to retroactively obtain CSRC approval where the restructuring steps had been completed prior to September 8, 2006. Yuan Tai Law Offices, our Legal Adviser on PRC Law, is of the opinion that (i) we have obtained all the necessary governmental approvals from PRC authorities for the restructuring of our subsidiaries prior to September 8, 2006, (ii) we do not need to obtain CSRC approval and (iii) it is not necessary for us to comply retroactively with the requirement of obtaining the prior approval of the CSRC for our public listing in the U.S. There is no assurance that these PRC authorities will not issue further directives, regulations, clarifications or implementation rules requiring us to obtain further approvals in relation to our public listing in the U.S. Restrictions under PRC law on our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to make dividends and other distributions could materially and adversely affect our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could benefit our business, pay dividends to you, and otherwise fund and conduct our business. Substantially all of our sales are earned by our PRC subsidiaries. However, PRC regulations restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to make dividends and other payments to their offshore parent company. PRC legal restrictions permit payments of dividends by our PRC subsidiaries only out of their accumulated after-tax profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Our PRC subsidiaries are also required under PRC laws and regulations to allocate at least 10% of their annual after-tax profits determined in accordance with PRC GAAP to a statutory general reserve fund until the amounts in said fund reaches 50% of our registered capital. Allocations to these statutory reserve funds can only be used for specific purposes and are not transferable to us in the form of loans, advances, or cash dividends. Any limitations on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to transfer funds to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our business, pay dividends and otherwise fund and conduct our business. Furthermore, our PRC subsidiaries, which are foreign investment entities (“FIEs”), are subject to the PRC rules and regulations on currency conversion. In the PRC, the State Administration of Foreign Exchange (“SAFE”) regulates the conversion of the RMB into foreign currencies. Currently, foreign investment enterprises (including wholly foreign-owned enterprises) are required to apply to the SAFE for “Foreign Exchange Registration Certificates for FIEs”. With such registration certification (which have to be renewed annually), FIEs are allowed to open foreign currency accounts including the “current account” and “capital account”. Currently, transactions within the scope of the "current account" (for example, remittance of foreign currencies for payment of dividends) can be effected without requiring the approval of the SAFE. However, conversion of currency in the “capital account” (for example, for capital items such as direct investments, loans and securities) still requires the approval of the SAFE. Our PRC operating subsidiary Rixiang has obtained the "Foreign Exchange Registration Certificates for FIEs", which is subject to annual review. 36 There is no assurance that the PRC regulatory authorities will not impose restrictions on the convertibility of the RMB for FIEs. In 2012 and 2011, approximately 98.2% and 99.9% of our sales, respectively, was denominated in RMB. As such, any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to utilize funds generated in the PRC to fund any potential business activities outside the PRC or to distribute dividends to our shareholders. Our subsidiaries, operations and significant assets are located outside the U.S. Shareholders may not be accorded the same rights and protection that would be accorded under the Securities Act. In addition, it could be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against our Directors and officers. Our subsidiaries, operations and assets are mostly located in the PRC. Our subsidiaries are therefore subject to the relevant laws in the PRC. U.S. law may provide shareholders with certain rights and protection which may not have corresponding or similar provisions under the laws of the PRC. As such, investors in our common stock may or may not be accorded the same level of shareholder rights and protection that would be accorded under the Securities Act. In addition, all our current executive directors are non-residents of the U.S. and the assets of these persons are mainly located outside the U.S. As such, there may be difficulty for our shareholders to affect service of process in the U.S., or to enforce a judgment obtained in the U.S. against any of these persons. We are subject to the PRC's environmental laws and regulations and in the event stricter rules are imposed to protect the environment, we may have to incur higher costs to comply with such rules. Our production facilities in the PRC are subject to environmental laws and regulations imposed by the PRC authorities, inter alia, in respect of air protection, waste management and water protection. In the event stricter rules are imposed on air protection, waste management and water protection by the PRC authorities, we may have to incur higher costs to comply with such rules. Accordingly, our financial performance may be adversely affected. In addition, we require license for the discharge of pollutants for our operations, which is subject to annual review and renewal. In the event that we fail to renew our license with the relevant authority, our operations and financial performance will be adversely affected. The outbreak of avian influenza and/or other communicable diseases, if uncontrolled, could affect our financial performance and prospects. The avian influenza virus is a virus found chiefly in birds, but infections with these viruses can occur in humans. In January of 2004, the first case of the avian influenza was reported in Guangxi, Hunan and Hubei provinces. Later reports also came from Anhui, Liaoning, Shanghai and Guangdong provinces. Since 2003, there have been 37 recorded cases of the avian influenza in the PRC. Because our operations are carried out through our wholly-owned subsidiaries located in the PRC, the outbreak of avian influenza and/or other communicable diseases, if uncontrolled, can have an adverse effect on business sentiments and environment. In addition, if any of our employees, our customers or our suppliers, is affected by the outbreak of communicable diseases, it can adversely affect, among others, our operations, our customers’ orders and our supply of raw materials. Accordingly, our sales and profitability will be materially and adversely affected. Changes in China’s political or economic situation could harm us and our operating results. Economic reforms adopted by the Chinese government have had a positive effect on the economic development of the country, but the government could change these economic reforms or any of the legal systems at any time. This could either benefit or damage our operations and profitability. Some of the things that could have this effect are: l Level of government involvement in the economy; l Control of foreign exchange; l Methods of allocating resources; l Balance of payments position; l International trade restrictions; and l International conflict. 37 The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, in many ways. As a result of these differences, we may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the Chinese economy were similar to those of the OECD member countries. The Chinese government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. Government action in the future may require us to divest ourselves of any interest we hold in Chinese properties. China only recently has permitted provincial and local economic autonomy and private economic activities. The Chinese government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to continue to operate in China may be affected by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of the jurisdictions in which we operate may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Accordingly, government actions in the future including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof, and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties or joint ventures. Price inflation in China could affect our results of operations if we are unable to pass along production cost price increases to our customers. Inflation in China has recently increased substantially. The annual inflation rate in China was reported at 2.5 percent for 2012 by the Chinese government. These factors have led to the adoption by the Chinese government, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. Price inflation can affect our results of operations if we are unable to pass along production cost price increases to customers. Similarly, the cost of the ongoing construction of our new facility and the installation of our equipment may increase as a result of these recent inflationary trends, which are expected to continue in the near future. Accordingly, inflation in China may weaken our competitiveness domestically or in international markets. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. The majority of our revenues will be settled in Renminbi, and any future restrictions on currency exchanged may limit our ability to use revenue generated in Renminbi to fund any future business activities outside China or to make dividend or other payments in the U.S. dollars. Although the Chinese government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the Renminbi for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that foreign-invested enterprises may only buy, sell or remit foreign currencies after providing valid commercial documents, at those banks in China authorized to conduct foreign exchange business. In addition, conversion of Renminbi for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to governmental approval in China, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. We cannot be certain that the Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi. The value of our securities will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and Renminbi. The value of our common stock will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and Renminbi, and between those currencies and other currencies in which our sales may be denominated. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for our operational needs and should the Renminbi appreciate against the U.S. dollar at that time, our financial position, the business of the company, and the price of our common stock may be harmed. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of declaring dividends on our common stock or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the Renminbi, the U.S. dollar equivalent of our earnings from our subsidiaries in China would be reduced. 38 RISKS RELATED TO THE MARKET FOR OUR STOCK Pengfei Liu has significant influence over the outcome of matters submitted to Shareholders for approval. As of December 31, 2012, Mr. Liu owned approximately 41.0% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, he can exercise significant influence over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the appointment of our directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions. His ownership and control may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a future change in control, impeding merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer. Our share price may be volatile, which can result in substantial losses for investors who purchase our common stock. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and can fluctuate significantly and rapidly in response to, inter alia, the following factors, some of which are beyond our control: l Variations in our operating results; l Success or failure of our management team in implementing business and growth strategies; l Gain or loss of an important business relationship or adverse financial performance by a significant customer or group of customers; l Changes in securities analysts’ recommendations, perceptions or estimates of our financial performance; l Changes in conditions affecting the seafood packaging and processing industry, the general economic conditions or stock market sentiments or other events or factors in the PRC; l Changes or developments in laws, regulations or taxes in the seafood processing and packaging industry in the PRC; l The temporary or permanent loss of our seafood processing and packaging facilities due to casualty, weather or any extended or extraordinary maintenance or inspection that may be required; l Changes in market valuations and share prices of companies with similar businesses that may be listed in the U.S. or anywhere else in the world; l Additions or departures of key personnel; l Fluctuations in stock market prices and volume; or l Involvement in litigation. Additional funds raised through issue of new shares for our future growth will dilute Shareholders’ equity interests. Although we have identified our expansion plans as avenues to pursue growth in our business, we may also find other opportunities to grow, including acquisitions which cannot be predicted at this juncture. Under such circumstances, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. If new shares placed to new and/or existing shareholders are issued in the future, they may be priced at a discount to the then prevailing market price of our shares trading on the NYSE MKT or any other stock exchanges, in which case, existing shareholders' equity interest will be diluted. If we fail to utilize the new equity to generate a commensurate increase in earnings, our earnings per share will be diluted and this could lead to a decline in our share price. Any additional debt financing may, apart from increasing interest expense and gearing, contain restrictive covenants with respect to dividends, future fund raising exercises and other financial and operational matters. Negative publicity may adversely affect our share price. One of our competitive strengths is our established brand name and track record. We have been involved in the production of processed seafood products since commencing our operations in 1994. Our “Mingxiang” brand has been conferred the “China Well-Known Trademark” and “Famous Brand” award, and our products have received several other awards such as the “Green Food” award. Please see “Description of Business - Competition”. We have also established a track record in the processed seafood industry which instills confidence in our products and attracts new customers from domestic and overseas markets. Negative publicity involving us, any of our directors or executive officers may adversely affect our stock market price whether or not such negative publicity is justified. 39 If we become directly subject to the recent scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity involving U.S.-listed Chinese companies, we may have to expend significant resources to investigate and resolve the matter which could harm our business operations, stock price and reputation and could result in a loss of your investment in our stock, especially if such matter cannot be addressed and resolved favorably. Recently, U.S. public companies that have substantially all of their operations in China, particularly companies like us which have completed reverse merger transactions, have been the subject of intense scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity by investors, financial commentators and regulatory agencies, such as the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. Much of the scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity has centered around financial and accounting irregularities and mistakes, a lack of effective internal controls over financial accounting, inadequate corporate governance policies or a lack of adherence thereto and, in many cases, allegations of fraud. As a result of the scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity, the publicly traded stock of many U.S. listed Chinese companies has sharply decreased in value and, in some cases, has become virtually worthless. Many of these companies are now subject to shareholder lawsuits, SEC enforcement actions and are conducting internal and external investigations into the allegations. It is not clear what effect this sector-wide scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity will have on our Company, our business and our stock price. If we become the subject of any unfavorable allegations, whether such allegations are proven to be true or untrue, we will have to expend significant resources to investigate such allegations and/or defend our Company. This situation will be costly and time consuming and distract our management from growing our Company. If such allegations are not proven to be groundless, our Company and business operations will be severely impacted and your investment in our stock could be rendered worthless. The disclosures in our reports and other filings with the SEC and our other public pronouncements are not subject to the scrutiny of any regulatory bodies in the PRC. Accordingly, our public disclosure should be reviewed in light of the fact that no governmental agency that is located in China where substantially all of our operations and business are located have conducted any due diligence on our operations or reviewed or cleared any of our disclosures. We are regulated by the SEC and our reports and other filings with the SEC are subject to SEC review in accordance with the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act. Unlike public reporting companies whose operations are located primarily in the United States, however, substantially all of our operations are located in China. Since substantially all of our operations and business take place in China, it may be more difficult for the Staff of the SEC to overcome the geographic and cultural obstacles that are present when reviewing our disclosures. These same obstacles are not present for similar companies whose operations or business take place entirely or primarily in the United States. Furthermore, our SEC reports and other disclosures and public pronouncements are not subject to the review or scrutiny of any PRC regulatory authority. For example, the disclosure in our SEC reports and other filings are not subject to the review of China Securities Regulatory Commission, a PRC regulator that is tasked with oversight of the capital markets in China. Accordingly, you should review our SEC reports, filings and our other public pronouncements with the understanding that no local regulator has done any due diligence on our Company and with the understanding that none of our SEC reports, other filings or any of our other public pronouncements has been reviewed or otherwise been scrutinized by any local regulator. Our auditor, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in China, is not permitted to be subject to inspection by Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, and as such, investors may be deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Our independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the SEC, as an auditor of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or PCAOB, is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because our auditor is located in China, a jurisdiction where PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the PRC authorities, our auditor, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in China, is currently not inspected by PCAOB. Inspections of other firms that PCAOB has conducted outside of China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. The inability of PCAOB to conduct inspections of independent registered public accounting firms operating in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. 40 Certain provisions of our Amended Articles of Incorporation may make it more difficult for a third party to effect a change in control. Our Amended Articles of Incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock. The preferred stock may be issued in one or more series, the terms of which may be determined at the time of issuance by our Board of Directors without further action by the stockholders. These terms may include voting rights including the right to vote as a series on particular matters, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion rights, redemption rights and sinking fund provisions. The issuance of any preferred stock could diminish the rights of holders of our common stock, and therefore could reduce the value of such common stock. In addition, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with, or sell assets to, a third party. The ability of our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock could make it more difficult, delay, discourage, prevent or make it more costly to acquire or effect a change-in-control, which in turn could prevent the stockholders from recognizing a gain in the event that a favorable offer is extended and could materially and negatively affect the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 