ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Our Form 10-K disclosure and analysis concerning our operations, cash flows and financial position, including, in particular, the likelihood of our success in developing and expanding our business, include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. Statements that are predictive in nature, that depend upon or refer to future events or conditions, or that include words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “estimates” and similar expressions are forward-looking statements. Although these statements are based upon assumptions we consider reasonable, they are subject to risks and uncertainties that are described more fully below. Accordingly, we can give no assurance that we will achieve the results anticipated or implied by our forward-looking statements. The radio broadcasting industry faces many unpredictable business risks and is sensitive to external economic forces that could have a material adverse affect on our advertising revenues and results of operations. Our future operations are subject to many business risks, including those risks that specifically influence the radio broadcasting industry, which could have a material adverse affect on our business. These risks include, but are not limited to: • shifts in population, demographics or audience preferences; • increased competition for advertising revenues with other radio stations, television stations, newspapers and magazines, outdoor advertising, direct mail, satellite radio, cellular phones and other wireless media, the internet and other forms of advertising; and • changes in government regulations and policies and actions of federal regulatory bodies, including the Federal Communications Commission, Internal Revenue Service, United States Department of Justice, and the Federal Trade Commission. In addition, we believe that for most businesses advertising is a discretionary business expense, meaning that spending on advertising tends to decline disproportionately during economic recession or downturn as compared to other types of business spending. As widely reported, financial markets in the United States have been experiencing extreme disruption. Continued concerns about the systemic impact of potential long-term and wide-spread recession, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, and the housing and mortgage markets have contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for the United States economy. These unfavorable changes in economic conditions as well as declining consumer confidence, recession and other factors, have led and could continue to lead to decreased demand for advertising and have negatively impacted our advertising revenues and our results of operations. We cannot predict with accuracy the timing or duration of any economic downturn generally, or in the markets in which our advertisers operate. If the current environment does continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience a further decline in revenues, which may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our radio stations may not be able to compete effectively in their respective markets for advertising revenues, which could adversely affect our revenue and cash flow. We operate in a highly competitive business. A decline in our audience share or advertising rates in a particular market may cause a decline in the revenue and cash flow of our stations located in that market. Our radio stations compete for audiences and advertising revenues within their respective markets directly with other radio stations, as well as with other media outlets. These other media outlets include over-the-air and cable television, newspapers and magazines, outdoor advertising, direct mail, satellite radio, cellular phones and other wireless media, the internet and other forms of advertising. 13 Table of Contents Our radio stations could suffer a reduction in audience ratings or advertising revenue and could incur increased promotional and other expenses if: • another radio station in a market was to convert its programming to a format similar to, and thereby compete more directly with, one of our radio stations; or • a new radio station was to adopt a comparable format or if an existing competitor were to improve its audience share. • a current or new advertising alternative increased its share of local and national advertising revenue. Other radio broadcasting companies may enter into markets in which we operate or may operate in the future. These companies may be larger and have more financial resources than we have. Our radio stations may not be able to maintain or increase their current audience ratings and advertising revenues. We may not remain competitive if we do not respond to changes in technology, standards and services that affect our industry. The radio broadcasting industry is subject to technological change, evolving industry standards and the emergence of other media technologies and services. We may not have the resources to acquire and deploy other technologies or to introduce new services that could compete with these other technologies. Competition arising from other technologies or regulatory change may have an adverse effect on the radio broadcasting industry or on our company. Various other audio technologies and services that have been developed and introduced, include: • personal digital audio devices (e.g. cellular phones, iPods, mp3 players); • satellite delivered digital audio radio services that offer numerous programming channels and the sound quality of compact discs; • audio programming by cable systems, direct broadcast satellite systems, internet content providers, personal communications services and other digital audio broadcast formats; • HD Radio, which provides multi-channel, multi-format digital radio services in the same bandwidth currently occupied by traditional AM and FM radio services; and • low power FM radio, which has resulted in non-commercial FM radio broadcast outlets that serve small, localized areas. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that competition arising from other technologies or regulatory change may have on the radio broadcasting industry or on our financial condition and results of operations. We have substantial debt that could have important consequences to you. We have debt that is substantial in relation to our stockholders’ equity. As of December 31, 2008, we had long-term debt of $174.5 million and stockholders’ equity of $47.5 million. Our long-term debt is substantial in amount and could have an impact on you. For example, it could: • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to debt service, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow for other purposes, including ongoing capital expenditures and future acquisitions; • impair our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; • limit our ability to compete, expand and make capital improvements; • increase our vulnerability to economic downturns, limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures and reduce our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions; and • limit or prohibit our ability to pay dividends and make other distributions. 14 Table of Contents Our ability to reduce our total leverage ratio by increasing operating cash flow and/or decreasing long-term debt will determine how much, if any, of the remaining commitments under our credit facility will be available to us in the future. Poor financial results or unanticipated expenses could result in our failure to maintain or lower our total leverage ratio and we may not be permitted to make any additional borrowings under our credit facility. Any additional borrowings would further increase the amount of our debt and the associated risks. In addition, there can be no assurances that additional financing will be available or on terms that will be acceptable to us. We are subject to restrictive debt covenants, which may restrict our operational flexibility. Our credit facility contains various financial and operating covenants, including, among other things, restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, subject our assets to additional liens, enter into certain investments, consolidate, merge or effect asset sales, enter into sale and lease-back transactions, sell or discount accounts receivable, enter into transactions with our affiliates or stockholders, change the nature of our business, pay dividends on and redeem or repurchase capital stock, or make other restricted payments. These restrictions could limit our ability to take actions that require funds in excess of those available to us. Our credit facility also requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and to satisfy financial condition tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests may be affected by events beyond our control and we cannot assure you that we will meet those ratios and tests. The current economic downturn has decreased demand for advertising and has negatively impacted our revenues. If our revenues were to decrease significantly it may become increasingly difficult for us to meet these financial covenants. In response we will continue to control costs and expenses in non-essential areas. Our breach of any of these covenants, ratios, tests or restrictions could result in an event of default under our credit facility. If an event of default exists under our credit facility, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable. If the lenders accelerate the payment of the indebtedness, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full that indebtedness which could force us to seek protection under federal bankruptcy laws and could significantly or entirely reduce the value of our equity. We may also incur future debt obligations in addition to, or in lieu of, our credit facility. Such future debt obligations might subject us to additional and different restrictive covenants that could further limit our operational flexibility or subject us to other events of default. We are dependent on federally-issued licenses to operate our radio stations and are subject to extensive federal regulation. The radio broadcasting industry is subject to extensive regulation by the FCC under the Communications Act. We are required to obtain licenses from the FCC to operate our radio stations. Licenses are normally granted for renewable terms of eight years. Although the vast majority of FCC radio station licenses are routinely renewed, we cannot assure you that the FCC will approve our future renewal applications or that the renewals will be for full eight-year terms or will not include conditions or qualifications. The non-renewal, or renewal with substantial conditions or modifications, of one or more of our licenses could have a material adverse effect on us. We must comply with extensive FCC regulations and policies in the ownership and operation of our radio stations. FCC regulations limit the number of radio stations that a licensee can own in a market, which could restrict our ability to consummate any future transactions and in certain circumstances could require us to divest one or more radio stations. The FCC also requires radio stations to comply with certain technical requirements to limit interference between two or more radio stations. If the FCC relaxes these technical requirements, it could impair the signals transmitted by our radio stations and could have a material adverse effect on us. Moreover, these FCC regulations and others may change over time and we cannot assure you that those changes would not have a material adverse effect on us. 15 Table of Contents A downturn in the performance of our radio stations in Miami-Ft. Lauderdale or Philadelphia could adversely affect our net revenue. A ratings decline or other operating difficulty in the performance of our radio stations in Miami- Ft. Lauderdale or Philadelphia could have a disproportionately adverse affect on our net revenue. These radio stations contributed 49.7% of our net revenue during 2008. Because of the large portion of our net revenue from Miami-Ft. Lauderdale and Philadelphia we have greater exposure to adverse events or conditions affecting the economy in those markets than would be the case if we were more geographically diverse. A future impairment of our FCC broadcasting licenses and/or goodwill could adversely affect our operating results. As of December 31, 2008, our FCC broadcasting licenses and goodwill represented 77.6% of our total assets. In accordance with the provisions of SFAS 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, we are required to test our FCC broadcasting licenses and goodwill for impairment at least annually which may result in future impairment losses. In 2008, we recorded impairment losses of $46.6 million related to the FCC broadcasting licenses in our Wilmington, DE, Las Vegas, NV, Augusta, GA, West Palm Beach-Boca Raton, FL, Atlanta, GA and Boston, MA market clusters and impairment losses of $15.9 million related to the goodwill recorded in our Wilmington, DE, Las Vegas, NV and Augusta, GA market clusters. For further discussion, see “Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Estimates” of this report. Our corporate offices and several of our radio stations are located in Florida and other areas that could be affected by hurricanes. Florida is susceptible to hurricanes and we have our corporate offices and eleven radio stations located there. These radio stations contributed 42.0% of our net revenue during 2008. Although the 2008 hurricane season did not have a material impact on our operations, our corporate offices and our radio stations located in Florida and along the coast of North Carolina could be materially affected by hurricanes in the future, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We carry property damage insurance on all of our properties and business interruption insurance on some of our properties, but there can be no assurance that such insurance would be adequate to cover all of our hurricane-related losses. The FCC continues vigorous enforcement of its indecency rules, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The FCC’s rules prohibit the broadcast of obscene material at any time and indecent material between the hours of 6 am and 10 pm. Broadcasters’ risk of violating the prohibition on the broadcast of indecent material is increased by the vagueness of the FCC’s definition of indecent material, coupled with the spontaneity of live programming. The FCC in the last few years has stepped up its enforcement activities as they apply to indecency, and has threatened to initiate license revocation or license renewal proceedings against broadcast licensees for a category of undefined “serious” indecency violations. The FCC has also expanded the breadth of indecency regulation to include material that could be considered “blasphemy” “personally reviling epithets”, “profanity” and vulgar or coarse words amounting to a nuisance. As a result, in the event that we broadcast material falling within the expanded breadth of the FCC’s regulation, we could be subject to license revocation, renewal or qualifications proceedings, which would put the licenses that we depend on for our operations in jeopardy. Legislation has also been enacted that substantially increases the monetary penalties for broadcasting indecent programming. Other legislative proposals have been keyed to the number of violations found by the FCC and would potentially subject broadcasters to license revocation, renewal or qualifications proceedings in the event that they broadcast indecent material. Several appeals of certain of the FCC’s recent enforcement actions and of the FCC’s underlying indecency standards are pending in the federal courts. Formerly, the maximum permitted fines for adjudicated violations of the FCC’s indecency rules were $32,500 per instance and $300,000 for each continuing violation. In June 2006, Congress increased the maximum permitted fines to $325,000 per incident and $3,000,000 for any continuing 16 Table of Contents violation arising from a single act or failure to act. The FCC implemented the increased forfeiture amounts in July 2007. Because the FCC may investigate indecency complaints prior to notifying a licensee of the existence of a complaint, a licensee may not have knowledge of a complaint unless and until the complaint results in the issuance of a formal FCC letter of inquiry or notice of apparent liability for forfeiture. We may in the future become subject to additional inquiries or proceedings related to our radio stations’ broadcast of indecent or obscene material. To the extent that these pending inquiries or other proceedings result in the imposition of fines, revocation of any of our radio station licenses or denials of license renewal applications, our results of operation and business could be materially adversely affected. Our business depends on the efforts of key personnel and the loss of any one of them could have a material adverse affect on our business. Our business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of our executive officers and other key employees, including George G. Beasley, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Beasley is 76 years old. We believe the unique combination of skills and experience possessed by Mr. Beasley would be difficult to replace and that the loss of Mr. Beasley’s or other key executives’ expertise could impair our ability to execute our operating and acquisition strategies. Our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer controls Beasley Broadcast Group, Inc. and members of his immediate family own a substantial equity interest in Beasley Broadcast Group, Inc. Their interests may conflict with yours. George G. Beasley is generally able to control the vote on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders. Without the approval of Mr. Beasley, we will be unable to consummate transactions involving an actual or potential change in control, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares over then current market prices. Shares of Class B common stock that Mr. Beasley beneficially owns represent 81.9% of the total voting power of all classes of our common stock. Mr. Beasley also has currently exercisable stock options to purchase 487,500 shares of Class A common stock. Members of his immediate family also own significant amounts of Class B common stock and Class A common stock. Mr. Beasley will be able to direct our management and policies, except with respect to those matters requiring a class vote under the provisions of our amended certificate of incorporation, third amended and restated bylaws or applicable law. Historically, we have entered into certain transactions with George G. Beasley, members of his immediate family and affiliated entities that may conflict with the interests of our stockholders now or in the future. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation – Related Party Transactions” and note 14 to the accompanying financial statements. Future sales by George G. Beasley or members of his family of our Class A common stock could adversely affect its market price. George G. Beasley and members of his family beneficially own the majority of all outstanding shares of Class B common stock, which is convertible to Class A common stock on a one-for-one basis. The market for our Class A common stock could change substantially if George G. Beasley and members of his family convert their shares of Class B common stock to shares of Class A common stock and then sell large amounts of shares of Class A common stock in the public market. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, could make it more difficult for us to raise capital by selling equity or equity-related securities in the future. The difficulties associated with any attempt to gain control of our Company may adversely affect the price of our Class A common stock. Due to his large holdings of our common stock, George G. Beasley controls the decision whether any change of control of the Company will occur. Moreover, some provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change 17 Table of Contents of control could be beneficial to you. In addition, the Communications Act and FCC rules and policies limit the number of stations that one individual or entity can own, directly or by attribution, in a market. FCC approval for transfers of control of FCC licensees and assignments of FCC licenses are also required. Because of the limitations and restrictions imposed on us by these provisions and regulations, the trading price of our Class A common stock may be adversely affected. There may not be an active market for our Class A common stock, making it difficult for you to sell your stock. Our stock may not be actively traded in the future. An illiquid market for our stock may result in price volatility and poor execution of buy and sell orders for investors. Our stock price and trading volume have fluctuated widely for a number of reasons, including some reasons that may be unrelated to our business or results of operations. This market volatility could depress the price of our Class A common stock without regard to our operating performance. In addition, our operating results may be below expectations of public market analysts and investors. If this were to occur, the market price of our Class A common stock could decrease, perhaps significantly. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 