D. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Mirae Corporation Our business could be adversely affected by the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry. We sell substantially all of our products to companies which operate in the semiconductor industry. The semiconductor industry has been and continues to be characterized by sudden, extreme, cyclical variations in product supply and demand. Since late 2000, the semiconductor industry has been in a cyclical downturn characterized by reduced demand for products, lower average selling prices, reduced investment in semiconductor capital equipment and other factors all of which have resulted in lower sales and earnings for our business. The timing, length and severity of these cycles are difficult to predict. Semiconductor manufacturers in the past have contributed to the severity of these cycles by not properly gauging market conditions and have in the past made untimely capital expenditures, over-investing or under-investing. Historically, the amount of reduction in capital expenditures by semiconductor manufacturers during downturns in the semiconductor industry has typically been of much greater magnitude than the reduction in the worldwide sales of semiconductors. Such downturns may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations to the extent that we are unable to respond effectively to these industry cycles. Downturns in the semiconductor industry often occur in connection with, or anticipation of, maturing product cycles and declines in general economic conditions. Industry downturns have been characterized by reduced demand for semiconductor devices and equipment, production over-capacity and a decline in average selling prices. During a period of declining demand, we must be able to quickly and effectively reduce expenses and motivate and retain key employees. Our ability to reduce expenses in response to any downturn in the semiconductor industry is limited by our need for continued investment in engineering and research and development and extensive ongoing customer service and support requirements. In addition, the long lead time for production and delivery of some of our products creates a risk that we may incur expenditures or purchase inventories for products, which we cannot sell. During periods of extended downturn, a portion of our inventory may be written down or eventually completely written off if it is not sold. No assurance can be given that any future downturns in the semiconductor industry will not be as or more severe than in the past, or that our results of operations or financial condition will not be materially and adversely affected by such downturns or other developments in these industries. Industry upturns have been characterized by fairly abrupt increases in demand for semiconductor devices and equipment and insufficient production capacity. During a period of increasing demand and rapid growth, we must be able to quickly increase manufacturing capacity to meet customer demand and hire and 7 Table of Contents assimilate a sufficient number of additional qualified personnel. Our inability to quickly respond in times of increased demand could harm our reputation and cause some of our existing or potential customers to place orders with our competitors rather than us. In addition, the semiconductor industry has been highly cyclical from quarter to quarter and as a result our operating results can fluctuate from quarter to quarter, which could negatively impact our business and our stock price. For a detailed summary of historical semiconductor industry performance, see Item 4 “Information on the Company—Industry Background—The Semiconductor Industry”. Our customer concentration may adversely affect our profitability The semiconductor manufacturing industry is highly concentrated, with a relatively small number of large semiconductor manufacturers worldwide accounting for a substantial portion of the purchases of semiconductor test handling equipment. We are heavily dependent on several major customers, including Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (formerly Hyundai Electronics Industries Co., Ltd.) a Korean company, SanDisk Corporation and Infineon Technologies AG, with customers representing 10% or more of our revenues representing 32% of our total revenues in 2005. In the SMD placement systems industry, mechatronics companies, including Sungil Telecom Co., Ltd., DK UIL Co., Ltd. and WeTech Co., Ltd., are our major customers. SanDisk Corporation is the world’s largest supplier of flash memory data storage card products and Infineon is a leading innovator in the international semiconductor industry. Although one of our strategies is to expand our domestic customer base and increase our overseas sales to reduce our reliance on a few large customers, such customers will likely remain important customers for the foreseeable future. Financial difficulties of any of these customers, the loss of any of these customers or a reduction in orders or sales by any of these customers would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have provided guarantees and indemnification to our affiliates and pledged a significant amount of our assets as collateral for such obligations. We provide guarantees or pledge our assets as collateral in connection with certain indebtedness or obligations of certain of our affiliates. For example, as of December 31, 2005, our outstanding guarantees on behalf of Cyber Bank Corporation, our affiliate which produces mobile communication devices, was Won 23,000 million (US$22,772 thousand). We also provide indemnification to our officers and directors, including directors of our affiliates, to the extent permitted by law. If we become liable under any of these obligations, our business, financial condition and results of operation may be adversely affected. Our products may become obsolete as a result of rapid technological change in the semiconductor and semiconductor related industries. The semiconductor and the semiconductor related industries and the semiconductor equipment manufacturing industry are subject to rapid technological change and new product introductions and enhancements. Our ability to remain competitive will depend in part upon our ability to develop new products that achieve market acceptance and meet customer expectations and needs and to introduce these products at competitive prices and on a timely and cost effective basis. Our success in developing new and enhanced products depends upon a variety of factors, including: • timely and efficient completion of product design; • availability of qualified technical and other personnel; • timely and efficient implementation of manufacturing and assembly processes; • enhancement of product performance; • effective sales and marketing; and • prompt response and quick repair in the event of equipment failure. 8 Table of Contents Since new product development commitments must be made well in advance of actual sales being realized, we must anticipate both future demand and the technology that will be available to supply that demand. Furthermore, introductions of new and complex products typically involve a period in which we identify design, engineering and reliability issues. Our inability to address such technology changes in timely and efficient manner will likely have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to increase our market share because certain of our competitors are more established than we are in some of our key and target markets. We seek to increase sales of our products in Korea and other markets across the world. Since certain of our competitors already operate in these key markets, many of whom have greater resources than we do, we may not be able to compete effectively for market share in such markets. Our ability to compete successfully against our competitors will depend on our ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors affecting the industry, including new products and services that may be introduced by our customers, changes in customer needs, technological change, economic conditions, discount pricing strategies by our competitors, among others. Future business consolidations and/or alliances in the industry may create significant new competitors and could harm our business and results of operations. Some of our major competitors have the following advantages: • greater name recognition; • more diversified product lines; • larger customer base; and • significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources. As a result, as compared with us, our major competitors may be able to: • better withstand downturns in our key target markets; • retain and hire key technology and other personnel; • adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements; and • market, sell and support their products more effectively. Our inability to compete effectively in such markets and increase sales and market share in such markets will likely have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Our new products and new business lines may not be successful. Our strategies entail expanding the range of our products, as well as widening our customer base in the Asia Pacific region, the United States and Europe. Our ability to implement these strategies will depend upon our use of our core competencies to develop new products and market them successfully both in and outside of Korea. We have expanded our core product offerings to include equipment that are specifically designed to handle DRAM and flash card products, SMD placement systems and Information Technology related products and services. We will continue to seek to develop new products and new business lines. However, no assurance can be given that any of these new products or new business lines will be accepted by the marketplace and be profitable or that we will be able to find suitable markets with sufficient demand for our products. Our inability to develop new products or enter into new business lines or the failure of one or more of these products or business lines could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 9 Table of Contents We may not be able to manage our growth into new products, new product lines and new markets. Our diversification and expansion strategy may place strains on our administrative, operational and financial resources and affect our competitiveness. Such expansion will increase responsibilities placed upon management personnel and will require development or enhancement of operational, managerial and financial systems and controls. If we are unable to effectively manage the expansion of our mechatronics product lines, our business, financial condition and results of operations will likely be adversely affected. Our diversification and expansion strategy may also require that we hire additional administrative, sales and marketing personnel, which would increase overall expenses and make it more difficult to maintain efficient decision making process. We have had in the past significant amounts of uncollected and uncollectible trade accounts receivable. In order to penetrate new markets and build market share quickly, in particular for our SMD placement systems, beginning in 1999, we offered longer payment periods to our customers. To increase our market share in the SMD placement systems market, we also provided credit to customers whose credit was not as strong as our semiconductor test handler customers. As a result of such marketing efforts and due to the weakness in the markets in which we operate, we have experienced significant uncollected and uncollectible trade accounts receivable. The percentage of trade accounts receivable which remain uncollected for more than 6 months to total accounts receivable has been high and has been increasing in recent years. Our trade accounts receivable for SMD Placement systems which remained uncollected for more than six months was Won 17,244 million as of December 31, 2005, as compared to Won 20,017 million as of December 31, 2004. See Item 4 “Information on the Company—Business Overview—SMD Placement Systems—Sales and Marketing.” No assurance can be given that we will not have to extend credit terms in the future in order to be competitive or as a result of deteriorating economic conditions which may further negatively impact our ability to collect on our accounts receivable and may result in us having to take higher provisions in the future for allowance for doubtful accounts which will negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and business. Market prices for our products may decline in the future. We anticipate that market prices for our main products may decline in the future due to continuing competitive pressures. We expect that significant competition among local and international companies, including from new entrants, may continue to drive semiconductor and semiconductor related equipment prices lower. We had in the past decreased the price on certain of our models by an average of approximately 5-10% in response to increased competition. We expect that there may be increases in promotional spending by companies competing in our industry, which we believe will also likely contribute to increasing movement of customers between competitors. Such increased competition and the resulting decline of market prices for our products would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results may fluctuate due to the seasonality of our sales of semiconductor test handlers and SMD placement systems. Our business has been seasonal and our sales have typically been higher in the second half of the year as a result of our semiconductor manufacturing customers making more of their capital expenditures decisions during such period. In addition, our operating results may fluctuate considerably from quarter to quarter. Changes in the nature or level of customer orders or a particularly large customer order or customer cancellation in any particular quarter could cause significant variations in our revenues. For instance, for our test handlers, our major customers typically provide to us the specifications needed for their orders. Our success may be dependent upon our ability to mobilize our various divisions to manufacture products to meet our customers’ customization and volume demands in a timely and cost efficient manner and, if we are unable to do so, our financial condition and results of operation may be adversely affected. Normally, we deliver our test handlers between 1 1/2 and 3 1/2 months after we receive an order. During these lead times, customers may modify or cancel their orders due to their own changing technology or for various other reasons, including economic and other factors. The volume and timing of orders placed by our customers vary due to fluctuations in product demand, the development of new semiconductor devices and other microeconomic and macroeconomic factors. Likewise, customers may misinterpret the marketplace direction and incorrectly indicate to us the future customization or volume demand for a particular product. Although our entry into the SMD placement system industry has reduced our dependence on our test handler sales, changes in the volume of customer orders could have a material effect on our profitability, in part because of the fixed costs associated with our test handler product line and because the volume of customer orders affects the utilization rate of our equipment, labor and other overhead costs. 10 Table of Contents Infringement of our intellectual property rights could negatively impact our results of operations Our success is dependent in part on our technology and our ability to continue to use our technology as well as our ability to obtain from third party sources technology used in our business. We rely on a combination of contractual rights and patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws to establish and protect proprietary rights in our technology. If we are unable to establish or protect these rights in the domestic and international markets in which we compete, our competitors may be able to use our intellectual property to compete against us in such markets. This could limit our growth and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. In addition, the inability to obtain commercially reasonable terms on such intellectual property or the threat by a third party of intellectual property right infringement may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. It is possible that no additional patents will be issued to us or any of our affiliates. In addition, our issued patents and trademarks may not prevent other companies from competing with us. Furthermore, although we maintain confidentiality agreements with many of our employees to limit disclosure or use of any information obtained as a result of an employee’s position with us, these employees may leave us or may be terminated by us at any time, and no assurance can be given that an employee will not misappropriate our proprietary information or that the Korean courts will enforce our rights under the confidentiality agreements. We cannot guarantee that any of the foregoing measures will discourage others from misappropriating our technology or independently developing similar technology. We recently applied for preliminary injunction against a Korean company for patent infringement in respect of test handlers, and the Korean Court has ordered that Korean company to cease manufacturing, selling, using, exhibiting and/or transferring of test handlers. See Item 8 “Financial Information—Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—Legal Proceedings.” An adverse outcome in any dispute involving intellectual property or relevant technologies could subject us to significant liabilities, require us to cease manufacture, sales and shipments of products or our use of processes requiring the relevant technologies or alter the design of our products or make it necessary for us to obtain licenses from third parties. Litigation could also adversely affect our sales of the challenged product and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, whether or not such litigation is resolved in our favor. For example, we have an ongoing dispute with Techwing Inc., a Korean company, involving Techwing Inc.’s alleged infringement of our patent rights with respect to memory test handlers and litigation for compensation of damage is pending in the District Court in Suwon. See Item 8 “Financial Information—Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—Legal Proceedings.” We do not believe that we have infringed on the intellectual property rights of any third party. We are controlled by a major shareholder. Moon Soul Chung, our founder and former President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors, together with his family members, beneficially owned approximately 12.90% of our outstanding common stock, on a fully diluted basis as of December 31, 2005. See Item 6 “Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Share Ownership.” Mr. Chung may be able to influence the composition and decisions of our Board of Directors, and shareholder votes relating to certain types of decisions and transactions, including those involving an actual or potential change of control. We rely on key personnel. As is common in the semiconductor and semiconductor related industries, success depends to a significant extent upon our key senior executives and research and development, engineering, marketing, sales, manufacturing, support and other personnel. Our success also depends upon our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. The competition for such employees is intense, and the loss of the services of any of these key personnel without adequate replacement or the inability to attract new qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on us. Although we have “key man” life insurance for all executive officers, the loss of the services of key personnel or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents In 2006 or subsequent year we may be a passive foreign investment company for United States federal income tax purposes, which could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequences. Since we hold a significant amount of short-term investments and other passive assets, including cash, and as we anticipate that we will continue to hold a significant amount of passive assets, in 2006 or subsequent years we may be a passive foreign investment company for United States federal income tax purposes. If we are a passive foreign investment company for any year, a U.S. Holder (as defined in Item 10 “Additional Information—Taxation—United States Federal Income Tax Considerations—Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations”) of our common shares or ADSs may be subject to adverse United States federal income tax consequences. Each investor is urged to consult its own tax advisor regarding the application and the effect of the passive foreign investment company rules in connection with the acquisition, ownership and disposition of our common shares or ADSs. See Item 10 “Additional Information—Taxation—United States Federal Income Tax Considerations—Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations” for a more detailed discussion of the United States federal income tax consequences if we are a passive foreign investment company. Becoming an investment company would preclude us from making subsequent offerings. While we do not believe we are currently an investment company, as defined in the U.S. Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, and while we do not have any intent to become an investment company, to the extent we acquire additional investment securities as the result of which the value of our total investment securities exceeds 40% of the value of our total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis, we could become an investment company. In the future we may be required to take actions to avoid the requirement to register as an investment company, such as shifting a significant portion of our long- and short-term investment portfolio into low-yielding bank deposits or other short-term securities which are not considered to be investment securities due to their liquidity and certain other characteristics. These types of investments may reduce the amount of interest on other income that we could otherwise generate from our investment activities. In addition, we may need to acquire additional income or loss generating assets that we might not otherwise have acquired or forego opportunities to acquire minority interests in companies that could be important to our strategy. The Investment Company Act also contains regulations with respect to investment companies, including restrictions on their capital structure, operations, transactions with affiliates and other matters which would be incompatible with our operations. If we were to be deemed an investment company in the future, we would, among other things, effectively be precluded from making public offerings in the United States. We could also be subject to administrative or legal proceedings and, among other things, contracts to which we are a party might be rendered unenforceable or subject to rescission. Risks Relating to Korea Our businesses may be adversely affected by developments affecting the Korean economy. We are incorporated and headquartered in Korea, and derived 62.2% of our revenues in 2005 from our operations in Korea. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are subject, to a significant extent, to economic, political, legal and regulatory conditions and developments in Korea. Any developments that could adversely affect the Korean economy will likely also decrease demand for our products and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Depreciation of the value of the Won against the U.S. dollar and other major foreign currencies may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and on the prices of our common stock and the ADSs. Substantially all of our revenues are denominated in Won. Depreciation of the Won may materially affect our results of operations because, among other things, it causes: • an increase in the amount of Won required by us to make interest and principal payments on our foreign currency-denominated debt, which accounted for approximately 64.8% and 94.9% of our total consolidated long-term debt, including current portion, as of December 31, 2004 and 2005, respectively; and 12 Table of Contents • an increase in Won terms, of the costs of equipment that we purchase from overseas sources which we pay for in U.S. dollars or other foreign currencies. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Won and the U.S. dollar will affect the U.S. dollar equivalent of the Won price of the shares of our common stock on the KRX Stock Market. These fluctuations also will affect the amounts a registered holder or beneficial owner of ADSs will receive from the ADR depositary in respect of: • dividends, which will be paid in Won to the ADR depositary and converted by the ADR depositary into U.S. dollars; • the U.S. dollar value of the proceeds that a holder will receive upon sale in Korea of the shares; and • the secondary market price of the ADSs. Increased tensions with North Korea could have an adverse effect on us and the prices of our common stock and the ADSs. Relations between Korea and North Korea have been tense over most of Korea’s modern history. The level of tension between Korea and North Korea has fluctuated and may increase or change abruptly as a result of current and future events, including ongoing contacts at the highest levels of the governments of Korea and North Korea. The level of tension between Korea and North Korea, as well as between North Korea and the United States, has increased as a result of North Korea’s admission in October 2002 to the maintenance of a nuclear weapons program in breach of the peace accord executed in October 1994. In response, the United States, Japan, Korea and the European Union (which became party to the 1994 accord in November 2002) decided to suspend shipments of oil to North Korea called for by the 1994 accord and reiterated their demands for the dismantling of North Korea’s nuclear weapons program. Following the suspension of oil shipments, North Korea removed the seals and surveillance equipment from its Yongbyon nuclear power plant and evicted inspectors from the United Nations International Atomic Energy Agency, or IAEA, and has reportedly resumed activity at its Yongbyon power plant. In January 2003, North Korea announced its intention to withdraw from the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, demanding that the United States sign a non-aggression pact as a condition to North Korea dismantling its nuclear program. In August 2003, representatives of Korea, the United States, North Korea, China, Japan and Russia held multilateral talks in an effort to resolve issues relating to North Korea’s nuclear weapons program. While the talks concluded without resolution, participants in the August meeting indicated that further negotiations may take place in the future and, in February and June 2004, six-party talks were held in Beijing, China. In June 2004, the third round of the six-party talks resumed in Beijing, which ended with an agreement by the parties to hold further talks by the end of September 2004, which failed to take place as planned due to North Korea’s refusal to participate. In February 2005, North Korea announced that it possessed nuclear weapons. In September 2005, North Korea agreed to end its nuclear weapons program, and the six participating nations signed a draft preliminary accord pursuant to which North Korea agreed to dismantle its existing nuclear weapons, abandon efforts to produce new future weapons and readmit international inspectors to its nuclear facilities. In return, the other five nations participating in the talks, China, Japan, Korea, Russia and the United States, expressed willingness to provide North Korea with energy assistance and other economic support. The six parties agreed to hold further talks in November 2005. However, one day after the joint statement was released, North Korea announced that it would not dismantle its nuclear weapons program unless the United States agreed to provide civilian nuclear reactors in return, a demand that the United States rejected. We cannot assure you that future negotiations will result in a final agreement on North Korea’s nuclear program, including critical details such as implementation and timing, or that the level of tensions between Korea and North Korea will not escalate. Any further increase in tensions, resulting for example from a break-down in contacts, test of long-range nuclear missiles coupled with continuing nuclear programs by North Korea or an outbreak in military hostilities, could adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations and could lead to a decline in the market value of our ADSs. 13 Table of Contents Korea’s new legislation allowing class action suits related to securities transactions may expose us to additional litigation risk. A new law enacted on January 12, 2004 allows class action suits to be brought by shareholders of companies (including us) listed on the KRX Stock Market for losses incurred in connection with purchases and sales of securities and other securities transactions arising from (i) false or inaccurate statements provided in the registration statements, prospectuses, business reports and audit reports; (ii) insider trading and (iii) market manipulation. This law became effective starting from January 1, 2005 with respect to companies whose total assets are equal to or greater than Won 2.0 trillion as of the end of the fiscal year immediately preceding January 1, 2005. However, in the event that certain elements of a financial statement for the fiscal year ended before January 1, 2005 were not in compliance with the then effective accounting standards, this law does not apply, if such non-compliance is cured or addressed in the financial statements for the fiscal year ending on December 31, 2006, and such corrected information is submitted to the Financial Supervisory Commission or the Korea Exchange Inc., or the KRX, or made publicly available. This law permits 50 or more shareholders who collectively hold 0.01% of the shares of a company to bring a class action suit against, among others, the issuer and its directors and officers. It is uncertain how the courts will apply this law. Litigation can be time-consuming and expensive to resolve, and can divert management time and attention from the operation of a business. We are not aware of any basis under which such suit may be brought against us, nor are any such suits pending or threatened. Any such litigation brought against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to the ADSs Liquidity of our ADSs may be limited. Our ADSs were first quoted for trading on The Nasdaq National Market on November 17, 1999 under the symbol “MRAE” and we issued new ADSs on February 17, 2000. An active market for our ADSs has not yet developed and trading volumes of our ADSs in The Nasdaq National Market remain low. There can be no assurance that an active market will develop or, if such a market does develop, that it will continue. An investor in our ADSs may not be able to exercise preemptive rights for additional shares and may suffer dilution of his equity interest in us. The Korean Commercial Code and our articles of incorporation require us, with some exceptions, to offer shareholders the right to subscribe for new shares in proportion to their existing ownership percentage whenever new shares are issued. If we offer any rights to subscribe for additional shares of our common stock or any rights of any other nature, the ADR depositary, after consultation with us, may make the rights available to an ADS holder or use reasonable efforts to dispose of the rights on behalf of the ADS holder and make the net proceeds available to the ADS holder. The ADR depositary, however, is not required to make available to an ADS holder any rights to purchase any additional shares unless it deems that doing so is lawful and feasible and: • a registration statement filed by us under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, is in effect with respect to those shares; or • the offering and sale of those shares is exempt from, or is not subject to, the registration requirements of the U.S. Securities Act, as amended. We are under no obligation to file any registration statement with respect to any ADSs. If a registration statement is required for an ADS holder to exercise preemptive rights but is not filed by us, the ADS holder will not be able to exercise his preemptive rights for additional shares. As a result, ADS holders may suffer dilution of their equity interest in us. Your ability to deposit shares with the Depositary and obtain ADSs may be limited. Under current Korean laws and regulations, neither shares of our common stock acquired in the open market nor shares withdrawn from the depositary facility may be deposited or re deposited, as the case may be, in the depositary facility without our consent. No assurance can be given that we will always consent to the deposit of such shares. 14 Table of Contents As a holder of ADSs, you will have fewer rights than a shareholder has and you will have to act through the Depositary to exercise those rights. The rights of shareholders under Korean law to take actions, including voting their shares, receiving dividends and distributions, bringing derivative actions, examining our accounting books and records and exercising appraisal rights, are available only to holders of record. Since the Depositary, through Korea Securities Depository, is the holder of record of the shares underlying the ADSs, only the Depositary can exercise those rights in connection with the deposited shares. The Depositary will, if we ask it to, make efforts to vote the shares underlying your ADSs as instructed by you and will pay to you the dividends and distributions collected from us. However, in your capacity as an ADS holder, you will not be able to bring a derivative action, examine our accounting books and records or exercise appraisal rights. Furthermore, we may not ask the Depositary to solicit your instructions on how to vote. If you surrender your ADSs and take delivery of the underlying shares, you can exercise all the rights of a shareholder, including voting your shares. However, you may not be informed of events affecting shareholders sufficiently in advance. 