risk factors. Current economic conditions may cause a decline in business spending which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Our operating results are impacted by the health of the U.S economy. Our business and financial performance may be adversely affected by current and future economic conditions, such as a reduction in the availability of credit to our customers and recession. We are dependent upon a small number of customers for a large portion of our revenues. We have a small number of customers from which we receive a large portion of our revenues. Our work with our largest customer accounted for 6.8% of total revenue during 2008, with our five largest customers represented approximately 22.2% of our 2008 revenue. Revenues from governmental agencies accounted for 36.7% in 2008, versus 40.7% and 22.6% in 2007 and 2006, respectively. Consequently, we are often required to replace one customer with one or more other customers in order to generate the same amount of revenues. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be able to do so. Some of our orders and contracts may be cancelled or modified so there is a risk that our backlog may not be fulfilled. Some of our orders and contract backlog are subject to cancellation or modification by our customers at any time so we cannot be certain that we will fully recognize revenue from them. At December 31, 2008, the dollar amount of backlog believed to be firm was $23,701,243. We are dependent on a few vendors and rely on timely delivery of equipment from outside sources. There are a few vendors from whom we obtain devices and software for specific access control, imaging, remote transmission, smart key and mobile applications. The loss of any one of these companies as suppliers could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations if we are unable to develop or acquire new technologies from other sources. We believe there are alternative vendors to source such products. 9 Timely vendor deliveries of equipment meeting our quality control standards from all suppliers are also important to our business because each installed system requires the integration of a variety of elements to be fully functional. The failure to deliver any component when required, in operating condition, can delay the project, triggering contract penalties, delay in progress payments and may result in cancellation of the project. We have not been consistently profitable and may not be profitable in the future. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 our revenues were $62,357,466, $57,852,216 and $42,132,852, respectively. Our net income was $1,557,756 for the year ended December 31, 2008. However, we had a net loss of $303,304 and $2,260,138 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We can make no assurances that we will be profitable in the future. We experience intense competition for business from a variety of sources. In systems integration, we compete for new business with large construction firms, electrical contractors and consultants in the security business and other systems integrators. Many of our competitors are much larger and have greater resources. In order to effectively compete in the future, we may have to charge less for our services, which may result in lower profit margins. We rely on a key executive. James E. Henry is vital to our business. Losing him could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business and growth will suffer if we are unable to hire and retain highly skilled personnel. Competition for highly skilled employees is intense in our industry. The design and manufacture of equipment, and the installation of our systems, requires substantial technical capabilities in many disparate disciplines from mechanics and computer science to electronics and advanced software. Our future success depends on our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain highly skilled employees. If we are unable to hire and retain skilled personnel, our growth may be restricted, the quality of our products and services diminished and our revenues and the value of your investment reduced. There is no assurance that we will be able to retain our skilled employees or attract, assimilate and retain other highly skilled employees in the future. Lengthy revenue cycles. Revenue from our services and products frequently involves a substantial commitment of resources to evaluate a potential project and prepare a proposal. In addition, approval of proposals often involves a lengthy process due to clients' internal procedures and capital expenditure approval processes. We may not be awarded a project that we have prepared a proposal for and, even if we are, a substantial period of time may elapse from when we make a proposal to when we can recognize revenues from the project. Seasonality. Revenues of our services have typically been seasonal in nature and there could be periods of fluctuations in revenue volume due to the timing of project installations or factors that are beyond the Company’s control, such as weather and construction delays. 10 We may make acquisitions or form joint ventures that are unsuccessful. Part of our growth strategy involves acquisitions or joint ventures with other system integrators. This strategy is subject to the following risks, the occurrence of which could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations: · We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition and joint venture candidates. · If the purchase price of an acquisition includes cash, we may need to use a significant portion of our available cash or credit facility with our bank. · We could have difficulty assimilating the acquired company's operations and personnel or working with the joint venture. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees and increase our costs. · We may not be able to retain key employees of the acquired companies or maintain good relations with its customers or suppliers. · We may be required to incur additional debt. · We may be required to issue equity securities to pay for such acquisition, which will dilute existing shareholders. · We may have to incur significant accounting charges, such as for an impairment of intangible assets, which may adversely affect our results of operations. The trading volume in our common stock fluctuates and as a result you may find it difficult to sell your shares of our common stock. Our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Trading in our common stock fluctuates and on some days is minimal. Failure to maintain an active trading market in our common stock could negatively affect the price of our common stock and your ability to sell our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 