Risk Factors.” We may also be prohibited under the 1940 Act from knowingly participating in certain transactions with our affiliates without the prior approval of our Independent Directors and, in some cases, prior approval by the SEC. On July 11, 2000, the SEC granted us an exemptive order permitting us to make co-investments with certain of our affiliates in portfolio companies, subject to various conditions. During the last completed fiscal year, the Fund did not engage in any transactions pursuant to this order. As with other companies regulated by the 1940 Act, a business development company must adhere to certain other substantive ongoing regulatory requirements. A majority of our directors must be persons who are not “interested persons,” as that term is defined in the 1940 Act. Additionally, we are required to provide and maintain a bond issued by a reputable fidelity insurance company to protect the business development company. Furthermore, as a business development company, we are prohibited from protecting any director or officer against any liability to the company or our shareholders arising from willful misfeasance, bad faith, gross negligence or reckless disregard of the duties involved in the conduct of such person’s office. 22 Table of Contents We and TTG Advisers maintain a code of ethics that establishes procedures for personal investment and restricts certain transactions by our personnel. The code of ethics generally does not permit investment by our employees in securities that may be purchased or held by us. You may read and copy the code of ethics at the SEC’s Public Reference Room in Washington, D.C. You may obtain information on operations of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at (202) 942-8090. In addition, the code of ethics is available on the EDGAR Database on the SEC Internet site at http://www.sec.gov. You may obtain copies of the code of ethics, after paying a duplicating fee, by electronic request at the following email address: publicinfo@sec.gov, or by writing to the SEC’s Public Reference Section, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. The code of ethics is also posted on our website at http://www.mvccapital.com. We may not change the nature of our business so as to cease to be, or withdraw our election as, a business development company unless authorized by vote of a “majority of the outstanding voting securities,” as defined in the 1940 Act, of our shares. A majority of the outstanding voting securities of a company is defined by the 1940 Act as the lesser of: (i) 67% or more of such company’s shares present at a meeting if more than 50% of the outstanding shares of such company are present and represented by proxy, or (ii) more than 50% of the outstanding shares of such company. We are periodically examined by the SEC for compliance with the 1940 Act. 