ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in MVC Capital involves a number of significant risks relating to our business and investment objective. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will achieve our investment objective. BUSINESS RISKS Business risks are risks that are associated with general business conditions, the economy, and the operations of the Company. Business risks are not risks associated with our specific investments or an offering of our securities. We depend on key personnel of TTG Advisers, especially Mr. Tokarz, in seeking to achieve our investment objective. We depend on the continued services of Mr. Tokarz and certain other key management personnel of TTG Advisers. If we were to lose access to any of these personnel, particularly Mr. Tokarz, it could negatively impact our operations and we could lose business opportunities. There is a risk that Mr. Tokarz’s expertise may be unavailable to the Company, which could significantly impact the Company’s ability to achieve its investment objective. Our returns may be substantially lower than the average returns historically realized by the private equity industry as a whole. Past performance of the private equity industry is not necessarily indicative of that sector’s future performance, nor is it necessarily a good proxy for predicting the returns of the Company. We cannot guarantee that we will meet or exceed the rates of return historically realized by the private equity industry as a whole. Additionally, our overall returns are impacted by certain factors related to our structure as a publicly-traded business development company, including: • The lower return we are likely to realize on short-term liquid investments during the period in which we are identifying potential investments, and • The periodic disclosure required of business development companies, which could result in the Company being less attractive as an investor to certain potential portfolio companies. 16 Table of Contents Substantially all of our portfolio investments and escrow receivables are recorded at “fair value” and, as a result, there is a degree of uncertainty regarding the carrying values of our portfolio investments. Pursuant to the requirements of the 1940 Act, because our portfolio company investments do not have readily ascertainable market values, we record these investments at fair value in accordance with our Valuation Procedures adopted by our Board of Directors. As permitted by the SEC, the Board of Directors has delegated the responsibility of making fair value determinations to the Valuation Committee, subject to the Board of Directors’ supervision and pursuant to the Valuation Procedures. At October 31, 2012, approximately 88.77% of our total assets represented portfolio investments and escrow receivables recorded at fair value. There is no single standard for determining fair value in good faith. As a result, determining fair value requires that judgment be applied to the specific facts and circumstances of each portfolio investment while employing a consistently applied valuation process for the types of investments we make. In determining the fair value of a portfolio investment, the Valuation Committee analyzes, among other factors, the portfolio company’s financial results and projections and publicly traded comparable companies when available, which may be dependent on general economic conditions. We specifically value each individual investment and record unrealized depreciation for an investment that we believe has become impaired, including where collection of a loan or realization of an equity security is doubtful. Conversely, we will record unrealized appreciation if we have an indication (based on a significant development) that the underlying portfolio company has appreciated in value and, therefore, our equity security has also appreciated in value, where appropriate. Without a readily ascertainable market value and because of the inherent uncertainty of fair valuation, fair value of our investments may differ significantly from the values that would have been used had a ready market existed for the investments, and the differences could be material. Pursuant to our Valuation Procedures, our Valuation Committee (which is currently comprised of three Independent Directors) reviews, considers and determines fair valuations on a quarterly basis (or more frequently, if deemed appropriate under the circumstances). Any changes in valuation are recorded in the consolidated statements of operations as “Net change in unrealized appreciation (depreciation) on investments.” Economic recessions or downturns, including the current economic instability in Europe and the United States, could impair our portfolio companies and have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Many of the companies in which we have made or will make investments may be susceptible to adverse economic conditions. Adverse economic conditions may affect the ability of a company to engage in a liquidity event. These conditions could lead to financial losses in our portfolio and a decrease in our revenues, net income and assets. Through the date of this report, conditions in the public debt and equity markets have been volatile and pricing levels have performed similarly. As a result, depending on market conditions, we could incur substantial realized losses and suffer unrealized losses in future periods, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If current market conditions continue, or worsen, it may adversely impact our ability to deploy our investment strategy and achieve our investment objective. Our overall business of making loans or private equity investments may be affected by current and future market conditions. The absence of an active mezzanine lending or private equity environment may slow the amount of private equity investment activity generally. As a result, the pace of our investment activity may slow, which could impact our ability to achieve our investment objective. In addition, significant changes in the capital markets could have an effect on the valuations of private companies and on the potential for liquidity events involving such companies. This could affect the amount and timing of any gains realized on our investments and thus have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. 17 Table of Contents Depending on market conditions, we could incur substantial realized losses and suffer unrealized losses in future periods, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the global financial markets have not fully recovered from the global financial crisis and the economic factors which gave rise to the crisis. The continuation of current global market conditions, uncertainty or further deterioration, including the economic instability in Europe, could result in further declines in the market values of the Company investments. Such declines could also lead to diminished investment opportunities for the Company, prevent the Company from successfully executing its investment strategies or require the Company to dispose of investments at a loss while such adverse market conditions prevail. We may not realize gains from our equity investments. When we invest in mezzanine and senior debt securities, we may acquire warrants or other equity securities as well. We may also invest directly in various equity securities. Our goal is ultimately to dispose of such equity interests and realize gains upon our disposition of such interests. However, the equity interests we receive or invest in may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value. In addition, the equity securities we receive or invest in may be subject to restrictions on resale during periods in which it would be advantageous to sell. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. The market for private equity investments can be highly competitive. In some cases, our status as a regulated business development company may hinder our ability to participate in investment opportunities. We face competition in our investing activities from private equity funds, other business development companies, investment banks, investment affiliates of large industrial, technology, service and financial companies, small business investment companies, wealthy individuals and foreign investors. As a regulated business development company, we are required to disclose quarterly the name and business description of portfolio companies and the value of any portfolio securities. Many of our competitors are not subject to this disclosure requirement. Our obligation to disclose this information could hinder our ability to invest in certain portfolio companies. Additionally, other regulations, current and future, may make us less attractive as a potential investor to a given portfolio company than a private equity fund not subject to the same regulations. Furthermore, some of our competitors have greater resources than we do. Increased competition would make it more difficult for us to purchase or originate investments at attractive prices. As a result of this competition, sometimes we may be precluded from making certain investments. Our ability to use our capital loss carryforwards may be subject to limitations. At October 31, 2011, the Company had $26.3 million in capital loss carryforwards. During the fiscal year ended October 31, 2012, the Company had net realized losses of approximately $20.5 million, primarily associated with the realized losses from BP Clothing, LLC (“BP”), SafeStone Technologies Limited (“SafeStone”), MVC Partners and GDC Acquisition, LLC (“GDC”), which were partially offset by the realized gain from the sale of SHL Group Limited. The Company also had net unrealized losses of $19.5 million associated with Legacy Investments as of October 31, 2012. Since the Company’s realized losses were not offset by realized gains during fiscal year 2012, the Company will be able to utilize them as capital loss carryforwards in future years. If, over a three year period, we experience an aggregate shift of more than 50% in the ownership of our common stock attributable to transactions involving one or more “5% shareholders” (e.g., if a shareholder acquires 5% or more of our outstanding shares of common stock, or if a shareholder who owns 5% or more of our outstanding shares of common stock significantly increases or decreases its investment in the Company), our ability to utilize our capital loss carryforwards to offset future capital gains may be severely limited. Further, in the event that we are deemed to have failed to meet the requirements to qualify as a RIC, our ability to use our capital loss carryforwards could be adversely affected. 18 Table of Contents Loss of pass-through tax treatment would substantially reduce net assets and income available for dividends. We have operated so as to qualify as a RIC. If we meet source of income, diversification and distribution requirements, we will qualify for effective pass-through tax treatment. We would cease to qualify for such pass-through tax treatment if we were unable to comply with these requirements. In addition, we may have difficulty meeting the requirement to make distributions to our shareholders because in certain cases we may recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income, such as in the case of debt obligations that are treated as having original issue discount. If we fail to qualify as a RIC, we will have to pay corporate-level taxes on all of our income whether or not we distribute it, which would substantially reduce the amount of income available for distribution to our shareholders, and all of our distributions will be taxed to our shareholders as ordinary corporate distributions. Even if we qualify as a RIC, we generally will be subject to a corporate-level income tax on the income we do not distribute. Moreover, if we do not distribute at least; (1) 98% of our ordinary income during each calendar year, (2) 98.2% of our net capital gains realized in the period from November 1 of the prior year through October 31 of the current year, and (3) all such ordinary income and net capital gains for the previous years that were not distributed during those years, we generally will be subject to a 4% excise tax on certain undistributed amounts. There are certain risks associated with the Company holding debt obligations that are treated under applicable tax rules as having original issue discount. For federal income tax purposes, we may be required to recognize taxable income in circumstances in which we do not receive a corresponding payment in cash. For example, if we hold debt obligations that are treated under applicable tax rules as having original issue discount (“OID”) (such as debt instruments with payment-in-kind, or PIK, interest or, in certain cases, increasing interest rates or debt instruments that were issued with warrants), we must include in income each year a portion of the original issue discount that accrues over the life of the obligation, regardless of whether cash representing such income is received by us in the same taxable year. We may also have to include in income other amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such as deferred loan origination fees that are paid after origination of the loan or are paid in non-cash compensation such as warrants or stock. We anticipate that a portion of our income may constitute original issue discount or other income required to be included in taxable income prior to receipt of cash. Further, we may elect to amortize market discounts and include such amounts in our taxable income in the current year, instead of upon disposition, as an election not to do so would limit our ability to deduct interest expenses for tax purposes. Any original issue discount or other amounts accrued will be included in our investment company taxable income for the year of the accrual. Therefore, we may be required to make a distribution to our shareholders in order to satisfy the annual distribution requirement necessary to qualify for and maintain RIC tax treatment under Subchapter M of the Code, even though we will not have received any corresponding cash amount. As a result, we may have to sell some of our investments at times and/or at prices we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital or forgo new investment opportunities for this purpose. If we are not able to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify for or maintain RIC tax treatment and thus become subject to corporate-level income tax, as described in the previous risk factor regarding loss of pass-through tax treatment. Additionally, the higher interest rates of OID instruments reflect the payment deferral and increased credit risk associated with these instruments, and OID instruments generally represent a significantly higher credit risk than coupon loans. Even if the accounting conditions for income accrual are met, the borrower could still default when the Company’s actual collection is supposed to occur at the maturity of the obligation. OID instruments may have unreliable valuations because their continuing accruals require continuing judgments about the collectability of the deferred payments and the value of any associated collateral. OID income may also create uncertainty about the source of the Company’s cash distributions. For accounting 19 Table of Contents purposes, any cash distributions to shareholders representing OID income are not treated as coming from paid-in capital, even though the cash to pay them comes from the offering proceeds. Thus, despite the fact that a distribution of OID income comes from the cash invested by the shareholders, the 1940 Act does not require that shareholders be given notice of this fact by reporting it as a return of capital. PIK interest has the effect of generating investment income and potentially increasing the incentive fees payable to TTG Adviser at a compounding rate. In addition, the deferral of PIK interest also reduces the loan-to-value ratio at a compounding rate. Furthermore, OID creates the risk that fees will be paid to TTG Adviser based on non-cash accruals that ultimately may not be realized, while TTG Adviser will be under no obligation to reimburse the Company for these fees. Our ability to grow depends on our ability to raise capital. To fund new investments, we may need to issue periodically equity securities or borrow from financial and other institutions or obtain debt sources of capital. Unfavorable economic conditions could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the public markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. If we fail to obtain capital to fund our investments, it could limit both our ability to grow our business and our profitability. With certain limited exceptions, we are only allowed to borrow amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% after such borrowing. The amount of leverage that we employ depends on TTG Advisers’ and our board of directors’ assessment of market and other factors at the time of any proposed borrowing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our current facility or obtain other lines of credit at all or on terms acceptable to us. Complying with the RIC requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities. In order to qualify as a RIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we must satisfy tests concerning the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets and the amounts we distribute to our shareholders. We may be unable to pursue investments that would otherwise be advantageous to us in order to satisfy the source of income or asset diversification requirements for qualification as a RIC. In particular, to qualify as a RIC, at least 50% of our assets must be in the form of cash and cash items, Government securities, securities of other RICs, and other securities that represent not more than 5% of our total assets and not more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of the issuer. We have from time to time held a significant portion of our assets in the form of securities that exceed 5% of our total assets or more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of an issuer, and compliance with the RIC requirements currently restricts us from making additional investments that represent more than 5% of our total assets or more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of the issuer. Thus, compliance with the RIC requirements may hinder our ability to take advantage of investment opportunities believed to be attractive, including potential follow-on investments in certain of our portfolio companies. Furthermore, as a result of the foregoing restrictions, the Board has approved an amended policy for the allocation of investment opportunities, which requires TTG Advisers to give first priority to the PE Fund for all equity investments that would otherwise be Non-Diversified Investments for the Company. For a further discussion of this allocation policy, please see “Our Investment Strategy—Allocation of Investment Opportunities” above. Regulations governing our operation as a business development company affect our ability to, and the way in which we, raise additional capital. We are not generally able to issue and sell our common stock at a price below net asset value per share. We may, however, sell our common stock or warrants at a price below the then-current net asset value per share of our common stock if our board of directors determines that such sale is in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders, and our stockholders approve such sale. In any such case, the price at which our securities are to be issued and sold may not be less than a price that, in the determination of our board of directors, closely approximates the market value of such securities (less any distributing commission or discount). If we raise 20 Table of Contents additional funds by issuing more common stock or senior securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, our common stock, then the percentage ownership of our stockholders at that time will decrease, and you might experience dilution. Any failure on our part to maintain our status as a business development company would reduce our operating flexibility. We intend to continue to qualify as a business development company (“BDC”) under the 1940 Act. The 1940 Act imposes numerous constraints on the operations of BDCs. For example, BDCs are required to invest at least 70% of their total assets in specified types of securities, primarily in private companies or thinly-traded U.S. public companies, cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities and other high quality debt investments that mature in one year or less. Furthermore, any failure to comply with the requirements imposed on BDCs by the 1940 Act could cause the SEC to bring an enforcement action against us and/or expose us to claims of private litigants. In addition, upon approval of a majority of our stockholders, we may elect to withdraw our status as a business development company. If we decide to withdraw our election, or if we otherwise fail to qualify as a business development company, we may be subject to the substantially greater regulation under the 1940 Act as a closed-end investment company. Compliance with such regulations would significantly decrease our operating flexibility, and could significantly increase our costs of doing business. Changes in the law or regulations that govern business development companies and RICs, including changes in tax regulations, may significantly impact our business. We and our portfolio companies are subject to regulation by laws at the local, state and federal levels, including federal securities law and federal taxation law. These laws and regulations, as well as their interpretation, may change from time to time. A change in these laws or regulations may significantly affect our business. Results may fluctuate and may not be indicative of future performance. Our operating results will fluctuate and, therefore, you should not rely on current or historical period results to be indicative of our performance in future reporting periods. In addition to many of the above-cited risk factors, other factors could cause operating results to fluctuate including, among others, variations in the investment origination volume and fee income earned, variation in timing of prepayments, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. Our common stock price can be volatile. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially. The price of the common stock may be higher or lower than the price you pay for your shares, depending on many factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors include the following: • Price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; • Significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of business development companies or other financial services companies; • Volatility resulting from trading by third parties in derivative instruments that use our common stock as the referenced asset, including puts, calls, long-term equity participation securities, or LEAPs, or short trading positions; • Changes in regulatory policies or tax guidelines with respect to business development companies or RICs; 21 Table of Contents • Our adherence to applicable regulatory and tax requirements, including the current restriction on our ability to make Non-Diversified Investments; • Actual or anticipated changes in our earnings or fluctuations in our operating results or changes in the expectations of securities analysts; • General economic conditions and trends; • Loss of a major funding source, which would limit our liquidity and our ability to finance transactions; or • Departures of key personnel of TTG Advisers. We are subject to market discount risk. As with any stock, the price of our shares will fluctuate with market conditions and other factors. If shares are sold, the price received may be more or less than the original investment. Whether investors will realize gains or losses upon the sale of our shares will not depend directly upon our NAV, but will depend upon the market price of the shares at the time of sale. Since the market price of our shares will be affected by such factors as the relative demand for and supply of the shares in the market, general market and economic conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict whether the shares will trade at, below or above our NAV. Although our shares, from time to time, have traded at a premium to our NAV, currently, our shares are trading at a discount to NAV, which discount may fluctuate over time. We have not established a minimum dividend payment level and we cannot assure you of our ability to make distributions to our shareholders in the future. We cannot assure that we will achieve investment results that will allow us to make cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. Our ability to make distributions is impacted by, among other things, the risk factors described in this report. In addition, the asset coverage test applicable to us as a business development company can limit our ability to make distributions. Any distributions will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our earnings, our financial condition, maintenance of our RIC status and such other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant from time to time. We cannot assure you of our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. During certain periods, our distribution proceeds (dividends) have exceeded and may, in the future, exceed our taxable earnings and profits. Therefore, during those times, portions of the distributions that we make may represent a return of capital to you for tax purposes, which will reduce your tax basis in your shares. During certain periods, our distribution proceeds have exceeded and may, in the future, exceed our earnings and profits. For example, in the event that we encounter delays in locating suitable investment opportunities, we may pay all or a portion of our distributions from the proceeds of any securities offering, from borrowings that were made in anticipation of future cash flow or from available funds. Therefore, portions of the distributions that we make may be a return of the money that you originally invested and represent a return of capital to you for tax purposes. A return of capital generally is a return of your investment rather than a return of earnings or gains derived from our investment activities and will be made after deducting the fees and expenses payable in connection with the offering. Such a return of capital is not taxable, but reduces your tax basis in your shares, which may result in higher taxes for you even if your shares are sold at a price below your original investment. We have borrowed and may continue to borrow money, which magnifies the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested and may increase the risk of investing in us. We have borrowed and may continue to borrow money (subject to the 1940 Act limits) in seeking to achieve our investment objective going forward. Borrowings, also known as leverage, magnify the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested and, therefore, can increase the risks associated with investing in our securities. 22 Table of Contents Under the provisions of the 1940 Act, we are permitted, as a business development company, to borrow money or “issue senior securities” only in amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% after each issuance of senior securities. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy this test. If that happens, we may be required to sell a portion of our investments and, depending on the nature of our leverage, repay a portion of our indebtedness at a time when such sales may be disadvantageous. We may borrow from, and issue senior debt securities to, banks, insurance companies and other private and public lenders. Lenders of these senior securities have fixed dollar claims on our assets that are superior to the claims of our common shareholders. If the value of our assets increases, then leveraging would cause the NAV attributable to our common stock to increase more sharply than it would had we not used leverage. Conversely, if the value of our consolidated assets decreases, leveraging would cause the NAV to decline more sharply than it otherwise would had we not used leverage. Similarly, any increase in our consolidated income in excess of consolidated interest expense on the borrowed funds would cause our net investment income to increase more than it would without the leverage, while any decrease in our consolidated income would cause net investment income to decline more sharply than it would have had we not borrowed. Such a decline could negatively affect our ability to make common stock dividend payments. Leverage is generally considered a speculative investment technique. Changes in interest rates may affect our cost of capital and net operating income and our ability to obtain additional financing. Because we have borrowed and may continue to borrow money to make investments, our net investment income before net realized and unrealized gains or losses, or net investment income, may be dependent upon the difference between the rate at which we borrow funds and the rate at which we invest these funds. As a result, there can be no assurance that a significant change in market interest rates would not have a material adverse effect on our net investment income. In periods of declining interest rates, we may have difficulty investing our borrowed capital into investments that offer an appropriate return. In periods of sharply rising interest rates, our cost of funds would increase, which could reduce our net investment income. We may use a combination of long-term and short-term borrowings and equity capital to finance our investing activities. We may utilize our short-term credit facility as a means to bridge to long-term financing. Our long-term fixed-rate investments are financed primarily with equity and intermediate or long-term debt. We may use interest rate risk management techniques in an effort to limit our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. Such techniques may include various interest rate hedging activities to the extent permitted by the 1940 Act. Additionally, we cannot assure you that financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Recent turmoil in the credit markets has greatly reduced the availability of debt financing. Deterioration in the credit markets, which could delay our ability to sell certain of our loan investments in a timely manner, could also negatively impact our cash flows. We may be unable to meet our covenant obligations under our credit facility or renew such facility, which could adversely affect our business. On April 27, 2006, the Company and MVCFS, as co-borrowers, entered into a four-year, $100 million revolving credit facility (the “Credit Facility”) with Guggenheim Corporate Funding, LLC (“Guggenheim”) as administrative agent to the lenders. On April 13, 2010, the Company renewed the Credit Facility for three years. The Credit Facility consists of a $50.0 million term loan with an interest rate of LIBOR plus 450 basis points with a 1.25% LIBOR floor. As of October 31, 2012, there was $50.0 million in term debt outstanding under the Credit Facility. The Credit Facility contains covenants that we may not be able to meet. If we cannot meet these covenants, events of default would arise, which could result in payment of the applicable indebtedness being accelerated and may limit our ability to execute on our investment strategy, as would be the case if we were unable to renew such facility. As such, from time to time, due to investment activity, changing cash positions and the need to execute against certain corporate strategies, the Company has obtained Guggenheim’s consent to waive compliance with certain covenants contained in the Credit Facility and may require such consents in the 23 Table of Contents future. There can be no assurance that future waivers or consents will be granted. During the year ended October 31, 2012, the Company requested Guggenheim’s consent to waive compliance with a particular covenant of the Credit Facility. In order to obtain this waiver, the Company agreed to increase the interest rate on the Credit Facility if the Company did not meet a newly established covenant level that was more stringent than required in the Company’s Credit Facility documents. The covenant level for an event of default remained the same. As of October 31, 2012, the Company has met all of its original covenant levels and is not in default, but was unable to meet the increased covenant level required by Guggenheim as part of the waiver obtained earlier in the year. As a result, the interest rate on the Credit Facility has increased to LIBOR plus 525 basis points with a 1.25% LIBOR floor. The increased rate will be effective until the Company demonstrates that it has passed the higher covenant level. The Credit Facility will expire on April 27, 2013, at which time the outstanding amount under the Credit Facility will be due and payable. Although not currently expected, in the event we are unable to renew such facility (or enter into a similar facility), our business could be adversely affected by, among other things, being forced to sell a portion of our investments quickly and prematurely to meet outstanding financing obligations and/or support working capital requirements at what may be disadvantageous prices. In addition, if we require working capital greater than that provided by the Credit Facility or are unable to renew the Credit Facility, we may be required to obtain other sources of funds, which, if available, may result in increased borrowing costs for the Company and/or additional covenant obligations. A portion of our existing investment portfolio was not selected by the investment team of TTG Advisers. As of October 31, 2012, 2.36% of the Company’s assets were represented by Legacy Investments. These investments were made pursuant to the Company’s prior investment objective of seeking long-term capital appreciation from venture capital investments in information technology companies. Generally, a cash return may not be received on these investments until a “liquidity event,” i.e., a sale, public offering or merger, occurs. Until then, these Legacy Investments remain in the Company’s portfolio. The Company is managing them to seek to realize maximum returns. Under the Advisory Agreement, TTG Advisers is entitled to compensation based on our portfolio’s performance. This arrangement may result in riskier or more speculative investments in an effort to maximize incentive compensation. Additionally, because the base management fee payable under the Advisory Agreement is based on total assets less cash, TTG Advisers may have an incentive to increase portfolio leverage in order to earn higher base management fees. The way in which the compensation payable to TTG Advisers is determined may encourage the investment team to recommend riskier or more speculative investments and to use leverage to increase the return on our investments. Under certain circumstances, the use of leverage may increase the likelihood of default, which would adversely affect our shareholders, including investors in this offering. In addition, key criteria related to determining appropriate investments and investment strategies, including the preservation of capital, might be under-weighted if the investment team focuses exclusively or disproportionately on maximizing returns. There are potential conflicts of interest that could impact our investment returns. Our officers and directors, and members of the TTG Advisers investment team, may serve other entities, including the PE Fund and others that operate in the same or similar lines of business as we do. Accordingly, they may have obligations to those entities, the fulfillment of which might not be in the best interests of us or our shareholders. It is possible that new investment opportunities that meet our investment objective may come to the attention of one of the management team members or our officers or directors in his or her role as an officer or director of another entity or as an investment professional associated with that entity, and, if so, such opportunity might not be offered, or otherwise made available, to us. 24 Table of Contents Additionally, as an investment adviser, TTG Advisers has a fiduciary obligation to act in the best interests of its clients, including us. To that end, if TTG Advisers manages any additional investment vehicles or client accounts (which includes its current management of the PE Fund), TTG Advisers will endeavor to allocate investment opportunities in a fair and equitable manner. When the investment professionals of TTG Advisers identify an investment, they will have to choose which investment fund should make the investment. As a result, there may be times when the management team of TTG Advisers has interests that differ from those of our shareholders, giving rise to a conflict. In an effort to mitigate situations that give rise to such conflicts, TTG Advisers adheres to a policy (which was approved by our Board of Directors) relating to allocation of investment opportunities, which generally requires, among other things, that TTG Advisers continue to offer the Company investment opportunities in mezzanine and debt securities as well as non-control equity investments in small and middle market U.S. companies. For a further discussion of this allocation policy, please see “Our Investment Strategy—Allocation of Investment Opportunities” above. Our relationship with any investment vehicle we or TTG Advisers manage could give rise to conflicts of interest with respect to the allocation of investment opportunities between us on the one hand and the other vehicles on the other hand. Our subsidiaries are authorized to and serve as a general partner or managing member to a private equity or other investment vehicle(s) (“Other Vehicles”). We or TTG Advisers may serve as an investment manager, sub-adviser or portfolio manager to the Other Vehicles. This raises a potential conflict of interest with respect to allocation of investment opportunities to us, on the one hand and to the Other Vehicles on the other hand. In fact, our Board authorized the establishment of the PE Fund (See discussion on the PE Fund in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”). The PE Fund has generally been given priority on all Non-Diversified Investments, which investments would otherwise have been made available to us. (We note that we are currently restricted from making Non-Diversified Investments.) The Board and TTG Advisers have adopted an allocation policy (described above) to help mitigate potential conflicts of interest among us and similarly managed vehicles. Wars, terrorist attacks, and other acts of violence may affect any market for our common stock, impact the businesses in which we invest and harm our operations and our profitability. Wars, terrorist attacks and other acts of violence are likely to have a substantial impact on the U.S. and world economies and securities markets. The nature, scope and duration of the unrest, wars and occupation cannot be predicted with any certainty. Furthermore, terrorist attacks may harm our results of operations and your investment. We cannot assure you that there will not be further terrorist attacks against the United States or U.S. businesses. Such attacks and armed conflicts in the United States or elsewhere may impact the businesses in which we invest directly or indirectly, by undermining economic conditions in the United States. Losses resulting from terrorist events are generally uninsurable. Our financial condition and results of operations will depend on our ability to effectively manage our future growth. Our ability to achieve our investment objective can depend on our ability to sustain continued growth. Accomplishing this result on a cost-effective basis is largely a function of our marketing capabilities, our management of the investment process, our ability to provide competent, attentive and efficient services and our access to financing sources on acceptable terms. As we grow, TTG Advisers may need to hire, train, supervise and manage new employees. Failure to effectively manage our future growth could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. INVESTMENT RISKS Investment risks are risks associated with our determination to execute on our business objective. These risks are not risks associated with general business conditions or those relating to an offering of our securities. 25 Table of Contents Investing in private companies involves a high degree of risk. Our investment portfolio generally consists of loans to, and investments in, private companies. Investments in private businesses involve a high degree of business and financial risk, which can result in substantial losses and, accordingly, should be considered speculative. There is generally very little publicly available information about the companies in which we invest, and we rely significantly on the due diligence of the members of the investment team to obtain information in connection with our investment decisions. Our investments in portfolio companies are generally illiquid. We generally acquire our investments directly from the issuer in privately negotiated transactions. Most of the investments in our portfolio (other than cash or cash equivalents and certain other investments made pending investments in portfolio companies such as investments in exchange-traded funds) are typically subject to restrictions on resale or otherwise have no established trading market. We may exit our investments when the portfolio company has a liquidity event, such as a sale, recapitalization or initial public offering. The illiquidity of our investments may adversely affect our ability to dispose of equity and debt securities at times when it may be otherwise advantageous for us to liquidate such investments. In addition, if we were forced to immediately liquidate some or all of the investments in the portfolio, the proceeds of such liquidation could be significantly less than the current fair value of such investments. Our investments in small and middle-market privately-held companies are extremely risky and the Company could lose its entire investment. Investments in small and middle-market privately-held companies are subject to a number of significant risks including the following: • Small and middle-market companies may have limited financial resources and may not be able to repay the loans we make to them. Our strategy includes providing financing to companies that typically do not have capital sources readily available to them. While we believe that this provides an attractive opportunity for us to generate profits, this may make it difficult for the borrowers to repay their loans to us upon maturity. • Small and middle-market companies typically have narrower product lines and smaller market shares than large companies. Because our target companies are smaller businesses, they may be more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns. In addition, smaller companies may face intense competition, including competition from companies with greater financial resources, more extensive development, manufacturing, marketing and other capabilities, and a larger number of qualified managerial and technical personnel. • There is generally little or no publicly available information about these privately-held companies. There is generally little or no publicly available operating and financial information about privately-held companies. As a result, we rely on our investment professionals to perform due diligence investigations of these privately-held companies, their operations and their prospects. We may not learn all of the material information we need to know regarding these companies through our investigations. It is difficult, if not impossible, to protect the Company from the risk of fraud, misrepresentation or poor judgment by our portfolio companies. • Small and middle-market companies generally have less predictable operating results. We expect that our portfolio companies may have significant variations in their operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence, may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position, may otherwise have a weak financial position or may be adversely affected by changes in the business cycle. Our portfolio companies may not meet net income, cash flow and other coverage tests typically imposed by their senior lenders. 26 Table of Contents • Small and middle-market businesses are more likely to be dependent on one or two persons. Typically, the success of a small or middle-market company also depends on the management talents and efforts of one or two persons or a small group of persons. The death, disability or resignation of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on our portfolio company and, in turn, on us. • Small and middle-market companies are likely to have greater exposure to economic downturns than larger companies. We expect that our portfolio companies will have fewer resources than larger businesses and an economic downturn may thus more likely have a material adverse effect on them. • Small and middle-market companies may have limited operating histories. We may make debt or equity investments in new companies that meet our investment criteria. Portfolio companies with limited operating histories are exposed to the operating risks that new businesses face and may be particularly susceptible to, among other risks, market downturns, competitive pressures and the departure of key executive officers. Our borrowers may default on their payments, which may have an effect on our financial performance. We may make long-term unsecured, subordinated loans, which may involve a higher degree of repayment risk than conventional secured loans. We primarily invest in companies that may have limited financial resources and that may be unable to obtain financing from traditional sources. In addition, numerous factors may adversely affect a portfolio company’s ability to repay a loan we make to it, including the failure to meet a business plan, a downturn in its industry or operating results, or negative economic conditions. Deterioration in a borrower’s financial condition and prospects may be accompanied by deterioration in any related collateral. Our investments in mezzanine and other debt securities may involve significant risks. Our investment strategy contemplates investments in mezzanine and other debt securities of privately held companies. “Mezzanine” investments typically are structured as subordinated loans (with or without warrants) that carry a fixed rate of interest. We may also make senior secured and other types of loans or debt investments. Our debt investments are not, and typically will not be, rated by any rating agency, but we believe that if such investments were rated, they would be below investment grade quality (rated lower than “Baa3” by Moody’s or lower than “BBB-” by Standard & Poor’s, commonly referred to as “junk bonds”). Loans of below investment grade quality have predominantly speculative characteristics with respect to the borrower’s capacity to pay interest and repay principal. Our debt investments in portfolio companies may thus result in a high level of risk and volatility and/or loss of principal. We are a non-diversified investment company within the meaning of the 1940 Act, and therefore may invest a significant portion of our assets in a relatively small number of portfolio companies, which subjects us to a risk of significant loss should the performance or financial condition of one or more portfolio companies deteriorate. We are classified as a non-diversified investment company within the meaning of the 1940 Act, and therefore we may invest a significant portion of our assets in a relatively small number of portfolio companies in a limited number of industries. As of October 31, 2012, the fair values of our two largest investments, Summit Research Labs, Inc. (“Summit”) and U.S. Gas & Electric, Inc. (“U.S. Gas”), comprised 19.3% and 23.5% of our net assets, respectively. Beyond the asset diversification requirements associated with our qualification as a RIC, we do not have fixed guidelines for diversification, and while we are not targeting any specific industries, relatively few industries may continue to be significantly represented among our investments. To the extent that we have large positions in the securities of a small number of portfolio companies, we are subject to an increased risk of significant loss should the performance or financial condition of these portfolio companies or their respective industries deteriorate. We may also be more susceptible to any single economic or regulatory occurrence as a result of holding large positions in a small number of portfolio companies. See the risk factor below regarding the industries in which Summit and U.S. Gas operate. 27 Table of Contents As a result of our significant portfolio investment in Summit, we are particularly subject to the risks of that company and the specialty chemical industry. Given the extent of our investment in Summit, the Company is particularly subject to the risks impacting Summit and the specialty chemicals industry. Summit operates in a competitive marketplace. Competition is based on several key criteria, including product performance and quality, product price, product availability and security of supply, responsiveness of product development in cooperation with customers and customer service. Summit’s competitors maybe larger than it is and may have greater financial resources. These competitors may also be able to maintain significantly greater operating and financial flexibility than it does. As a result, these competitors may be better able to withstand changes in conditions within the industry, changes in the prices of raw materials and energy and in general economic conditions. Additionally, competitors’ pricing decisions could compel Summit to decrease its prices, which could affect its margins and profitability adversely. Summit’s ability to maintain or increase its profitability is, and will continue to be, dependent upon its ability to offset changes in the prices and margins of its products by improving production efficiency and volume, shifting to higher margin chemical products and improving existing products through innovation and research and development. If it is unable to do so or to otherwise maintain its competitive position, it could lose market share to its competitors. Additionally, downturns in the businesses that use Summit’s specialty chemicals will adversely affect its sales. Historically, downturns in general economic conditions have resulted in diminished product demand, excess manufacturing capacity and lower average selling prices, and Summit may experience similar problems in the future. A decline in economic conditions in Summit’s customers’ cyclical industries may have a material adverse effect on its sales and profitability. Furthermore, increases in the price of the raw materials or energy utilized for Summit’s products, or any disruption in the availability of such raw materials or energy, may have a material adverse effect on Summit’s operating results. Summit, like others in its industry, is subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations concerning, among other things, emissions in the air, discharges to land and water and the generation, handling, treatment and disposal of hazardous waste and other materials. These requirements, and enforcement of these requirements, may become more stringent in the future. In addition, future regulatory or other developments could also restrict or eliminate the use of, or require Summit to make modifications to, its products, packaging, manufacturing processes and technology, which could have a significant adverse impact on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As a result of our significant portfolio investment in U.S. Gas, we are particularly subject to the risks of that company and the energy services industry. Given the extent of our investment in U.S. Gas, the Company is particularly subject to the risks impacting U.S. Gas and the energy service industry. U.S. Gas’s operating results may fluctuate on a seasonal or quarterly basis and with general economic conditions. Weather conditions and other natural phenomena can also have an adverse impact on earnings and cash flows. Unusually mild weather in the future could diminish U.S. Gas’s results of operations and harm its financial condition. U.S. Gas enters into contracts to purchase and sell electricity and natural gas as part of its operations. With respect to such transactions, the rate of return on its capital investments is not determined through mandated rates, and its revenues and results of operations are likely to depend, in large part, upon prevailing market prices for power in its regional markets and other competitive markets. These market prices can fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of time. Trading margins may erode as markets mature and there may be diminished opportunities for gain should volatility decline. Fuel prices may also be volatile, and the price U.S. Gas can obtain for power sales may not change at the same rate as changes in fuel costs. These factors could reduce U.S. Gas’s margins and therefore diminish its revenues and results of operations. 28 Table of Contents U.S. Gas relies on a firm supply source to meet its energy management obligations for its customers. Should U.S. Gas’s suppliers fail to deliver supplies of natural gas and electricity, there could be a material impact on its cash flows and statement of operations. U.S. Gas depends on natural gas pipelines and other storage and transportation facilities owned and operated by third parties to deliver natural gas to wholesale markets and to provide retail energy services to customers. If transportation or storage of natural gas is disrupted, including for reasons of force majeure, the ability of U.S. Gas to sell and deliver its services may be hindered. As a result, it may be responsible for damages incurred by its customers, such as the additional cost of acquiring alternative supply at then-current market rates. Additionally, U.S. Gas depends on transmission facilities owned and operated by unaffiliated power companies to deliver the power it sells at wholesale. If transmission is disrupted, or transmission capacity is inadequate, U.S. Gas may not be able to deliver its wholesale power. U.S. Gas is subject to substantial regulation by federal, state and local regulatory authorities. It is required to comply with numerous laws and regulations and to obtain numerous authorizations, permits, approvals and certificates from governmental agencies. U.S. Gas cannot predict the impact of any future revisions or changes in interpretations of existing regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations applicable to it. Changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations could influence its operating environment and may result in substantial costs to U.S. Gas. When we are a debt or minority equity investor in a portfolio company, we may not be in a position to control the entity, and management of the company may make decisions that could decrease the value of our portfolio holdings. We anticipate making debt and minority equity investments; therefore, we will be subject to the risk that a portfolio company may make business decisions with which we disagree, and the shareholders and management of such company may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not serve our interests. Due to the lack of liquidity in the markets for our investments in privately held companies, we may not be able to dispose of our interests in our portfolio companies as readily as we would like. As a result, a portfolio company may make decisions that could decrease the value of our portfolio holdings. We may choose to waive or defer enforcement of covenants in the debt securities held in our portfolio, which may cause us to lose all or part of our investment in these companies. Some of our loans to our portfolio companies may be structured to include customary business and financial covenants placing affirmative and negative obligations on the operation of each company’s business and its financial condition. However, from time to time, we may elect to waive breaches of these covenants, including our right to payment, or waive or defer enforcement of remedies, such as acceleration of obligations or foreclosure on collateral, depending upon the financial condition and prospects of the particular portfolio company. These actions may reduce the likelihood of our receiving the full amount of future payments of interest or principal and be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of the underlying collateral as many of these companies may have limited financial resources, may be unable to meet future obligations and may go bankrupt. This could negatively impact our ability to pay dividends and cause you to lose all or part of your investment. Our portfolio companies may incur obligations that rank equally with, or senior to, our investments in such companies. As a result, the holders of such obligations may be entitled to payments of principal or interest prior to us, preventing us from obtaining the full value of our investment in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization, acquisition, merger or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company. Our portfolio companies may have other obligations that rank equally with, or senior to, the securities in which we invest. By their terms, such other securities may provide that the holders are entitled to receive 29 Table of Contents payment of interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments in respect of the securities in which we invest. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of securities ranking senior to our investment in the relevant portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution in respect of our investment. After repaying investors that are more senior than us, the portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligation to us. In the case of other securities ranking equally with securities in which we invest, we would have to share on an equal basis any distributions with other investors holding such securities in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company. As a result, we may be prevented from obtaining the full value of our investment in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company. Investments in foreign debt or equity may involve significant risks in addition to the risks inherent in U.S. investments. Our investment strategy has resulted in some investments in debt or equity of foreign companies (subject to applicable limits prescribed by the 1940 Act). Investing in foreign companies can expose us to additional risks not typically associated with investing in U.S. companies. These risks include exchange rates, changes in exchange control regulations, political and social instability, expropriation, imposition of foreign taxes, less liquid markets and less available information than is generally the case in the United States, higher transaction costs, less government supervision of exchanges, brokers and issuers, less developed bankruptcy laws, difficulty in enforcing contractual obligations, lack of uniform accounting and auditing standards and greater price volatility. A portion of our investments are located in countries that use the euro as their official currency. The USD/euro exchange rate, like foreign exchange rates in general, can be volatile and difficult to predict. This volatility could materially and adversely affect the value of the Company’s shares and our interests in affected portfolio companies. Investing in our securities may involve a high degree of risk. The investments we make in accordance with our investment objective may result in a higher amount of risk than alternative investment options and volatility or loss of principal. Our investments in portfolio companies may be highly speculative and aggressive, and therefore, an investment in our securities may not be suitable for someone with a low risk tolerance. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 