Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report, the following risks and uncertainties could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations and financial condition. Our revenues have declined each quarter over the past two fiscal years. We are not sure if we will ever be profitable. Over the past two fiscal years our revenues have declined each quarter. Our net loss for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 was $693,258 and our net loss for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 was $2,771,826. We are not certain that we will ever be profitable. The effects of the recent economic crisis have impacted our business, operating results, or financial condition. We are not certain when this crisis will end. 9 Table of Contents The recent economic crisis has caused disruptions and extreme volatility in financial markets and increased rates of default and bankruptcy, and has impacted levels of consumer and business spending. These developments have negatively affected our business, operating results, or financial condition in a number of ways. For example, the downturn in consumer spending has resulted in lower sales of the overstock we purchase for resale to other businesses. Furthermore, the deterioration in the real estate market may make it unprofitable to develop our real estate projects and the tightening credit market may make it impossible for us to sell the units once the projects are built out. We are not sure when this economic crisis will end As of December 31, 2008, we had a working capital deficiency of $4,208,436. Our revenues are not adequate to support our operations. We do not expect this to change in the near term. This may require us to curtail or cease our operations. As of December 31, 2008 we had a working capital deficiency of $4,208,436 and our operating expenses exceeded our revenues by approximately $136,000. Our revenues are not adequate to support our operations and we do not expect this to change in the near term. While we are taking measures to cut costs, if revenues continue to decline we may have to severely curtail, or even cease, our operations. Our operating results fluctuate significantly and may be impacted by factors that are beyond our control. This makes it difficult to accurately predict what the revenues from our operations will be. Our operating results have varied on a quarterly basis during our operating history and may fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Factors that may affect our quarterly operating results include · our ability to attract new clients to use our services; · the announcement or introduction of new sites, services and products by our competitors; · the success of our marketing campaigns; · price competition; · the level of use of the Internet and online services; · our ability to upgrade and develop our systems and infrastructure to accommodate growth; · the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to our business, operations and infrastructure; and · general economic conditions as well as economic conditions specific to the Internet and online commerce industries. Due to the foregoing factors, our quarterly revenues and operating results are difficult to forecast. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Our auction business is done through the Internet and requires us to be able to include all the bidders that care to bid at the auctions we facilitate. However, we may be subject to capacity constraints and system development risks that could damage our customer relations or inhibit our possible growth. Our business of facilitating on-line auctions means that anyone, anywhere in the world, could log onto the auction website to bid. We cannot be sure how many bidders will attend an auction on-line. Our success and our ability to provide high quality customer service largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and servers, Internet and communications systems and the computers and communication systems of third party vendors in order to accommodate any significant numbers or increases in the numbers of consumers and businesses using our services. Our success also depends on our abilities, and that of our vendors, to rapidly expand transaction-processing systems and network infrastructure without any systems interruptions in order to accommodate any significant increases in the use of our service. We cannot assure you that the vendors or partners we have selected and will select in the future will be capable of accommodating any significant number or increases in the number of consumer and auction houses using our services. Such failures will have a material adverse affect on our business and results of operations. We may experience periodic systems interruptions and down time caused by traffic to our web site and technical difficulties, which may cause customer dissatisfaction and may adversely affect our results of operations. Limitations of our technology infrastructure and that of our vendors may prevent us from maximizing our business opportunities. Substantially all of the computer hardware for operating our service is currently located in British Columbia. These systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunication failures, break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events. We do not presently have fully redundant systems, a formal disaster recovery plan or alternative providers of hosting services and we do not carry sufficient business interruption insurance to compensate for losses that may occur. Any damage to or failure of the systems could result in reductions in, or terminations of, the Ableauctions service, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Changing technology may render our equipment, software, and programming obsolete or irrelevant. The market for Internet-based products and services is characterized by rapid technological developments, frequent new product introductions, and evolving industry standards. The emerging character of these products and services and their rapid evolution will require that we continually improve the performance, features, and reliability of our Internet-based products and services, particularly in response to competitive offerings. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in responding quickly, cost effectively, and sufficiently to these developments. In addition, the widespread adoption of new Internet technologies or standards could require substantial expenditures by us to modify or adapt our Internet sites and services and could fundamentally affect the character, viability, and frequency of Internet-based advertising, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. In addition, new Internet-based products, services, or enhancements offered by us may contain design flaws or other defects that could require costly modifications or result in a loss of customer confidence, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. 10 Table of Contents Our inventory liquidation business, Unlimited Closeouts, Inc., is dependent on a small number of customers. Unlimited Closeouts, Inc., our inventory liquidation business, accounted for approximately 59% of our revenues during the 2008 fiscal year. Ten customers accounted for approximately 70% of these revenues, with the largest customer accounting for approximately 50% of the revenues. If we were to lose any one of these customers, it could have a material adverse effect on the business of Unlimited Closeouts, Inc. and on our results of operations. If we cannot protect our Internet domain names, our ability to conduct our operations may be impeded. Our Internet domain names, particularly “ableauctions.com” and “icollector.com”, are an extremely important part of our business and the business of our subsidiaries. Governmental agencies and their designees generally regulate the acquisition and maintenance of domain names. The regulation of domain names in the United States and in foreign countries may be subject to change. Governing bodies may establish additional top-level domains, appoint additional domain name registrars, or modify the requirements for holding domain names. As a result, we may be unable to acquire or maintain relevant domain names in all countries in which we conduct business. We may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe on, or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. Third parties have acquired domain names that include “auctions” or other variations both in the United States and elsewhere. Our success depends on the services of Abdul Ladha and Erick Richardson, the key employees of Ableauctions.com, Inc. and Unlimited Closeouts Inc. respectively Our future success will depend on Abdul Ladha, our chief executive officer and president and Erick Richardson, manager of Unlimited Closeouts Inc. The loss of any one of these individuals could have an adverse effect on our operations. We do not maintain insurance to cover the loss that may result from the death of either of these individuals. The e-commerce industry is highly competitive, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively. The market for broadcasting auctions, providing auction technology, liquidating inventory over the Internet and point of sale services is rapidly evolving and intensely competitive and we expect competition to intensify further in the future. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the online auction and liquidation markets are volume and selection of goods, population of buyers, customer service, reliability of delivery and payment by users, brand recognition, web site convenience and accessibility, price, quality of search tools, and system reliability. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition, and significantly greater financial, marketing, technical, and other resources than we have. Certain of our competitors may be able to devote greater resources to marketing and promotional campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies, and devote substantially more resources to web site and systems development than we can or may try to attract traffic by offering services for free. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Further, as a strategic response to changes in the competitive environment, we may, from time to time, make certain pricing, service, or marketing decisions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our business may be subject to government regulation and legal uncertainties that may increase the costs of our operations or limit our ability to generate revenues. We are subject to the same federal, state, and local laws as other companies conducting business on the Internet. Today there are relatively few laws specifically directed towards online services. However, due to the increasing popularity and use of the Internet and online services, it is possible that many laws and regulations will be adopted regarding the Internet or online services. These laws and regulations could cover issues such as online contracts, user privacy, freedom of expression, pricing, fraud, content and quality of products and services, taxation, advertising, intellectual property rights, and information security. Applicability to the Internet of existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, copyrights and other intellectual property issues, taxation, libel, obscenity, and personal privacy is sometimes uncertain. In addition, numerous states have regulations regarding the manner in which auctions may be conducted and the liability of auctioneers in conducting such auctions. Due to the global nature of the Internet, it is possible that the governments of other countries might attempt to regulate our transmissions or prosecute us for violations of their laws. We might unintentionally violate such laws. Such laws may be modified, or new laws may be enacted, in the future. Any such development could damage our business. Our business may be subject to sales and other taxes, which may cause administrative difficulties and increase our cost of operations. We collect sales and other similar taxes on goods sold on our web site, as applicable. One or more states may seek to impose additional sales tax collection obligations on companies such as ours that engage in or facilitate online commerce. Several proposals have been made at the state and local level that would impose additional taxes on the sale of goods and services through the Internet. These proposals, if adopted, could substantially impair the growth of electronic commerce and could diminish our opportunity to derive financial benefit from our activities. 11 Table of Contents In the future, laws making us liable for the activities of users of our services could be passed, which would adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition. The law relating to the liability of providers of online services for activities of their users of the service is currently unsettled. There can be no assurance that we will be able to prevent the unlawful exchange of goods on our service or that we will successfully avoid civil or criminal liability for unlawful activities carried out by users of our services. The imposition of potential liability on us for unlawful activities of users of our services could require us to implement measures to reduce our exposure to such liability, which may require us, among other things, to spend substantial resources and/or or to discontinue certain service offerings. Any costs incurred as a result of such liability or asserted liability could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our success depends largely on sellers reliably delivering and accurately representing the working condition of auctioned goods and buyers paying the auctioned price. While we can suspend the accounts of users who fail to fulfill their obligations, beyond crediting sellers with the amount of their fees in certain circumstances, we do not have the ability to otherwise require users to make payments or deliver goods and we do not compensate users who believe they have been defrauded by other users. Any resulting litigation could be costly for us, divert management’s attention from our business and could result in increased costs of doing business, or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We conduct a significant amount of our business online, however such activities may not be secure. If a breach of security occurred, our reputation could be damaged and we could be sued. A significant barrier to online commerce and communications is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Currently, a significant number of Ableauctions’ users authorize us to bill their credit card accounts directly for all transaction fees charged by us. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication technology to effect secure transmission of confidential information, including customer credit card numbers. There can be no assurance that advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, or other events or developments will not result in a compromise or breach of the technology used by us to protect customer transaction data. If any such compromise of our security were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and, therefore, on our business, results of operations and financial condition. A significant portion of our income resulted from loans we made to third parties. While we try to adequately secure the loans we make, we cannot guarantee you that these loans will always be recovered if a default were to occur. In 2005 we expanded our business to include loaning funds to individuals and businesses in the Vancouver, British Columbia area. During 2008, revenues from these loans totaled $207,781. The loans we make are always secured, generally by real property. We generally obtain appraisals or assessments of the property prior to making the loans. However, as a result of the economic downturn, the value of the property could decline and the loan become unsecured. If that were to happen, and a default in payment occurred, we may be unable to recover the funds that were loaned. This could have a material, adverse affect on our revenues. Adverse economic conditions could significantly reduce the amount of income we earn on our commercial and residential real estate loans. Adverse economic conditions have caused us to experience an increase in the number of commercial and residential real estate loans that could result in loan delinquencies, foreclosures and non performing assets and a decrease in the value of the property or other collateral which secures our real estate loans, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations. Loan defaults result in a decrease in interest income and may require the establishment of, or an increase in, loan loss reserves. The decrease in interest income resulting from a loan default or defaults may be for a prolonged period of time as we seek to recover, primarily through legal proceedings, the outstanding principal balance, accrued interest and default interest due on a defaulted loan, plus the legal costs incurred in pursuing our legal remedies. Legal proceedings, which may include foreclosure actions and bankruptcy proceedings, are expensive and time consuming. The decrease in interest income, and the costs involved in pursuing our legal remedies will reduce the amount of cash available to meet our expenses and adversely impact our liquidity and operating results. Our borrowers may increasingly be unable to achieve their business plans due to the economic environment and strain on commercial real estate, which may cause stress in our real estate loan portfolio. Many of our commercial real estate loans are made to borrowers who have a business plan to improve the collateral property. The current economic environment has created a number of obstacles to borrowers attempting to achieve their business plans, including lower occupancy rates and lower lease rates across all property types, which continues to be exacerbated by rising unemployment and overall financial uncertainty. If borrowers are unable to achieve their business plans, the related commercial real estate loans could go into default and severely impact our operating results and cash flows. Loan repayments may be less likely in the current market environment. In the past, a source of liquidity for us was the voluntary repayment of loans. Because financial lending institutions have drastically curtailed new lending activity, real estate owners are having difficulty refinancing their assets at maturity. If borrowers are not able to refinance loans at their maturity, the loans could go into default and the liquidity that we would receive from such repayments will not be available. Furthermore, without a functioning real estate finance market, borrowers that are performing on their loans will almost certainly extend such loans if they have that right, which will further delay our ability to access liquidity through repayments. Higher loan loss reserves are expected if economic conditions do not improve. If the declines in the Canadian and U.S. economies do not stabilize and reverse in 2009, we will likely experience significant increases in loan loss reserves, potential defaults and asset impairment charges in the future. 12 Table of Contents During 2005 we further expanded our business to include property development. In order to develop property, we must advance significant funds which – if the development fails – we may not be able to recover. We are currently developing one property for mixed commercial and residential use and planning for the development of a second property. As opportunities arise, we may develop other properties in the future. In order to develop property, we must spend a significant amount of time and money. We must acquire the property, have plans prepared, obtain zoning approvals and permits and build and sell the project. During any phase of the project we could experience delays (such as in obtaining permits) or unforeseen problems (such as labor disputes, increasing materials costs, or an inability to obtain adequate financing). Even if we are able to build the project, the market for the units we build could decline. We cannot guarantee you that our building projects will be successful or that we will be able to recover the money we put into them. If our building projects are unsuccessful, our business and our cash flow will be materially adversely affected. Even though we will obtain homeowner warranties for our building project from a registered insurer, we will still be liable for up to $2.05 million ($2.5 million CAD) in the event that significant warranty claims are made. If we were required to pay this entire amount, it could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and results of operations. We are currently developing the property located at 9655 King George Highway for mixed commercial and residential use in British Columbia. Under the Homeowner Protection Act in British Columbia (1999), we are required to provide warranties (commonly referred to as a 2-5-10 Home Warranty Certificate) for new home buyers through a registered insurer or warranty provider. For our development located at 9655 King George Highway, we have paid approximately $150,000 to register for the home warranty program with Travelers Warranty. In the event one or more purchasers of the condominium units makes a claim during the warranty period, the insurer can require us to repair any deficiencies at our expense or deny the claim. The comprehensive 2-5-10 Home Warranty Certificate provides new home buyers with protection and coverage on new homes for the following: - Year 1 – Any defect in materials and labor - Year 2 – Defects in materials and labor supplied for: gas, electrical, plumbing, heating ventilation and air-conditioning delivery and distribution systems; exterior cladding, caulking, windows and doors that may lead to detachment or material damage to the new home; coverage for any defects in materials and labor rendering the new home unfit to live in; and subject to certain conditions, coverage for non-compliance or a violation of the building code 5 Year Building Envelope Warranty - coverage for the building envelope for up to five years for defects in the building envelope of a new home, including a defect which permits unintended water penetration such that it causes, or is likely to cause, material damage to the new home. 10 Year Structural Defects Warranty - coverage for structural defects for up to ten years for any defect in materials and labor that results in the failure of a load bearing part of the new home; and any defect which causes structural damage that materially and adversely affects the use of the new home for residential occupancy. Our liability, once the development is complete and we sell the condominium units, is $82,051 ($100,000 CAD) per unit to a maximum of $2.05 million ($2.5 million CAD) for the entire project. If there were major defects in the construction of the condominium units and we were required to pay the entire $2.52 million ($2.5 million CAD), our cash flows and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Despite the insurance that we carry for the development of our properties, we could still be liable for the activities of our general contractor or the sub-contractors hired by our general contractor. If we were found to be liable for the acts or omissions of our general contractor or a subcontractor, our business, operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We carry course of construction insurance in the amount of $14.5 million CAD and a wrap-around liability policy in the amount of $5 million CAD for the construction of the Gruv Development. Despite our best efforts to cover any foreseeable losses related to our acts or omissions, we could be found liable for the acts or omissions of our general contractor or any of our sub-contractors. For example, if a crane at the building site were to fall and injure or kill someone, we might be held liable for the damages sustained by the plaintiff on the theory that we were negligent in failing to adequately investigate the background of the general contractor. If our insurance did not cover the loss and we were required to pay damages to the plaintiff, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The economic downturn and lack of financing may result in defaults to our Gruv Development presale contracts. If there are too many defaults, we could be forced to resell units substantially below cost resulting in a material adverse effect on our operations. We entered into agreements to pre-sell 100% of the 111 Gruv Development residential condominiums prior to construction and have collected approximately $1.92 million ($2.34 million CAD) in deposits that are being held in trust with Macdonald Realty Ltd. Despite the legal obligations incurred by those who entered into pre-sale contracts, if a substantial number of purchasers do not complete their purchases when the development is completed, due to either financing, changes in unit styles, or any other reason, we could be forced to resell the units at prices substantially below the cost of building them, resulting in a significant and material adverse impact on our operations. 13 Table of Contents The credit facilities that we use may require us to provide additional collateral, which could significantly impact our liquidity position. We have used credit facilities to finance some of our operations and short-term cash flow needs. Although our secured credit facility is with a major financial institution, if the market value of the commercial real estate pledged by us declines in value, we may be required by the lending institution to provide additional collateral or pay down a portion of the funds advanced. In the event we do not have sufficient liquidity to meet such requirements, lending institutions can accelerate our indebtedness and foreclose upon the assets securing the credit facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. If we are unable to extend or renew our existing secured credit facilities, our results of operations, financial condition and business could be significantly harmed. Credit facilities are critical to our business. If we are unable to extend or renew our existing secured credit facilities, our results of operations, financial condition and business could be significantly harmed. Our stock price is subject to extreme volatility. The trading price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors such as actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results, announcements of technological innovations, or new services offered by us or by our competitors, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, conditions or trends in the Internet and online commerce industries, changes in the market valuations of other Internet or online service companies, announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments, additions or departures of key personnel, sales of our common stock or other securities in the open market and other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control. Further, the stock markets in general, and the market for Internet-related and technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. The trading prices of many technology companies’ stocks do not accurately reflect the valuations of these companies. There can be no assurance that trading prices and valuations will be sustained. These broad market and industry factors may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Market fluctuations, as well as general political and economic conditions such as recession or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations, may also adversely affect the market price of the common stock. The posting of inventory on auction websites using our own technology may expose us to certain liabilities. The posting of inventory on auction websites using our own technology may expose us to certain liabilities. The inventory posted for sale, whether it belongs to us or to a client, may not be free of liens or encumbrances, may violate laws, may cause damage, death or harm, may be unsuitable for the use suggested, may be counterfeited, misrepresented, damaged, illustrated incorrectly or not authentic, or may be damaged during delivery or shipment. In addition, the posting of the image may illustrate or describe the inventory incorrectly or violate trademarks or copyrights belonging to others. Further, the parties to the auction may fail to consummate the transaction or act fraudulently or dishonestly. Finally, we may make errors in posting a catalogue for a client such as missing an item, incorrectly uploading the information, posting erroneous starting times, inadvertently (or through equipment malfunctions, data crashes, viruses, hackers, etc.) omitting the catalogue altogether or losing the client’s data. Any such occurrences could cause harm to our reputation or result in a loss of clients or customers, any of which could adversely impact our results of operations. We have invested our assets in securities such as stocks, bonds, mortgage loans, real estate and income trusts. If these investments decline in value, we may suffer significant losses. As of December 31, 2008, our holdings included the following: Type Carrying Amount % of Total Assets Cash & Current Assets $ 1,747,383 10 % Other Assets $ 439,270 2 % Real Estate (head office) $ 2,193,475 12 % Real Estate (development) $ 8,520,055 47 % Real Estate (Joint Venture) $ 1,223,728 7 % Real Estate (Surrey City Central) $ 1,671,638 9 % Loans $ 2,294,745 13 % Total $ 18,090,294 100 % All of our investments are subject to market risks and their values may increase or decrease daily depending on factors affecting their respective markets, which we cannot control. Dividends and distributions are not guaranteed and may be terminated or reduced at any time. Even if dividends or distributions are maintained, the gains made from the dividends or distributions may be lost by a decline in the price of the security. Price changes may occur in the market as a whole, or they may occur in only a particular company, industry, or sector of the market. Real estate values and mortgage loans can be seriously affected by factors such as interest rate fluctuations, bank liquidity, the availability of financing, and by factors such as a zoning change or an increase in property taxes. Since the majority of our investments are held in Canadian funds, currency fluctuations may affect the value of our portfolio significantly. There can be no assurance that the securities and other assets in which we have invested will increase, or even maintain, their value. 14 Table of Contents A majority of our obligations, investments and expenditures with respect to our operations are incurred in a foreign currency. While our financial results are quantified in U.S. dollars, a majority of our obligations, investments and expenditures with respect to our operations may be incurred in Canadian dollars. We may have market risks relating to our operations resulting from foreign exchange rates if we enter into financing or other business arrangements denominated in currency other than the U.S. dollar. Variations in the exchange rate may give rise to foreign exchange gains or losses that may be significant. Unexpected rate hikes in insurance premiums could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our business may be subject to significant insurance rate increases, which may make it difficult for us to obtain the appropriate risk coverage or liability insurance, creating administrative difficulties in keeping board members and increasing the cost of our operations. Due to the risks involved with insuring Internet related businesses, it is possible that we could be denied insurance coverage or not be able to afford it. Lack of insurance coverage could make it difficult to retain key employees and board members or to attract suitable employees, which could seriously impede our performance and profitability and our ability to conduct our business. If the NYSE Alternext US determines that our common stock does not meet its listing criteria, our stock could be delisted. We are not under any immediate threat to be delisted from the NYSE Alternext US (formerly the American Stock Exchange and referred to herein as the “Exchange”) and the Exchange has not taken any action in notifying us of any concerns surrounding the listing. However, the Exchange may change its listing requirements or we may not be able to meet the listing criteria. If our common stock were delisted from the Exchange, it would likely be traded on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board, which is merely a quotation system, not an issuer listing service. Buying and selling securities on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board is not as efficient as buying and selling securities on an exchange, therefore, if our common stock ceased to be traded on the Exchange it would likely be more difficult for you to sell your stock or to receive the best price for your stock. In 2002 we acquired iCollector PLC. This business eventually failed. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully incorporate into our business model the acquisitions that we make, or that the acquisitions we make will be profitable. In 2002 we acquired iCollector PLC, which eventually failed. However, we may still, in the future, acquire businesses, technologies, services or products that we believe are strategic. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify, negotiate or finance future acquisitions successfully, or to integrate such acquisitions with our current business. The process of integrating an acquired business, technology, service or product into our operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and may absorb significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the anticipated benefits of any acquisition will be realized. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities and other intangible assets, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any such future acquisitions of other businesses, technologies, services or products might require us to obtain additional equity or debt financing, which might not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all, and such financing, if available, might be dilutive. We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property. Our failure to protect our intellectual property could adversely effect our business. We own the trademarks Ableauctions, Unlimited Closeouts, iTrustee and iCollector. The Company regards the protection of its copyrights, service marks, trademarks, trade dress and trade secrets as critical to its future success and relies on a combination of copyright, trademark, service mark and trade secret laws and contractual restrictions to establish and protect its proprietary rights in products and services. The Company attempts to enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with its employees and contractors, and nondisclosure agreements with parties with which it conducts business in order to limit access to and disclosure of its proprietary information. There can be no assurance that these contractual arrangements or the other steps taken by the Company to protect its intellectual property will prove sufficient to prevent misappropriation of the Company’s technology or to deter independent third party development of similar technologies. The Company continues to rely on common law to protect its intellectual property. Effective trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which the Company’s services are made available online. The Company has licensed in the past and expects that it may license in the future, certain of its proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material, to third parties. While the Company attempts to ensure that the quality of the Ableauctions or iCollector brand is maintained by such licensees, there can be no assurance that such licensees will not take actions that might materially adversely affect the value of the Company’s proprietary rights or reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. We may infringe on the proprietary rights of others, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. There can be no assurance that third parties will not claim infringement by the Company with respect to past, current or future technologies. The Company expects that participants in its markets will be increasingly subject to infringement claims as the number of services and competitors in the Company’s industry segment grows. Any such claim, whether meritorious or not, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, cause service upgrade delays or require the Company to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements might not be available on terms acceptable to the Company or at all. As a result, any such claim could have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. We have been sued for claims relating to our discontinued operations and we may have more such claims. In 2002 it was determined that iCollector PLC could not sustain its operations based on its existing cash resources and infrastructure. iCollector PLC then ceased operations and a restructuring plan was adopted. In January 2002 iCollector PLC was placed into formal bankruptcy proceedings pursuant to the laws of the United Kingdom. In 2002, Ableauctions.com (Washington) Inc., our wholly owned subsidiary, ceased its bricks and mortar operations in San Mateo and San Francisco. In connection with the termination of these operations, we have received a number of claims from various alleged creditors. We cannot assure you that no additional claims will arise from these discontinued operations. Furthermore, subsequent claims may force Ableauctions.com (Washington) Inc. to declare bankruptcy. 15 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments As a smaller reporting company we are not required to provide this information. Item 