Item 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider each of the risks and uncertainties described in this section and all of the other information in this document before deciding to invest in our common stock. Any of the risk factors we describe below could severely harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The market price of our common stock could decline if any of these risks or uncertainties develop into actual events. You may lose all or part of the money you paid to buy our common stock. The pending merger with Tutogen may create uncertainty for our suppliers, employees and business partners. On November 13, 2007, we announced that we had entered into a merger agreement with Tutogen. The merger is currently expected to close in late February 2008. While the merger is pending, donor recovery groups may delay or defer decisions to become Regeneration Technologies suppliers and existing suppliers may experience uncertainty about our service, including the results of any integration of our business with that of Tutogen. This may adversely affect our ability to gain new suppliers and retain existing suppliers, which could adversely affect our revenues as well as the market price of our common stock. Current employees may experience uncertainty about their post-merger roles with Regeneration Technologies and key employees may depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with Regeneration Technologies following the merger. Other parties with whom we have or are pursuing relationships, such as distributors, hospitals and surgeons, may defer agreeing to further arrangements with us, or may opt not to become a business partner of ours at all. The merger with Tutogen is subject to Shareholder approval and may not occur. We and Tutogen must obtain shareholder approval for the merger to occur. If either we or Tutogen do not receive this approval, then we will not be able to complete the merger. We cannot assure you that the merger will be completed in the anticipated time frame or at all. A failure to complete the merger may result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. The issuance of shares of our common stock to Tutogen stockholders in the merger will substantially reduce the percentage interests of our current stockholders. If the merger is completed, we will issue approximately 23,694,000 shares of our common stock in the merger to former stockholders of Tutogen. Based on the number of shares of Regeneration Technologies and Tutogen common stock outstanding on the date of the Merger Agreement, former Tutogen stockholders will own, in the aggregate, approximately 45% of the shares of common stock of the combined company outstanding immediately after the merger. The issuance of shares of our common stock to Tutogen stockholders in the merger and to holders of assumed options and restricted stock units to acquire shares of Tutogen common stock and warrants will cause a significant reduction in the relative voting power and percentage interests in earnings of our current stockholders and also will reduce their liquidation value and book value. We will incur significant transaction and merger-related costs in connection with the merger. Regeneration Technologies expects to incur charges of approximately $4 million in outside costs, including legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, which are expected to be accounted for as part of the purchase price when the merger is completed. The actual transaction costs may be higher than this estimate. In addition, the combined company expects to incur integration costs associated with the merger. These integration costs will be charged to operations in the fiscal quarter in which they are incurred, which would adversely affect the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the combined company. Further, diversion of attention from ongoing operations on the part of management and employees could adversely affect our business. Although, 14 after the merger closes, we expect that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, may offset incremental transaction and transaction-related costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all. In addition, speculation regarding the likelihood of closing the merger could increase the volatility of our stock price, and pendency of the merger could make it difficult to effect other significant transactions, to the extent opportunities arise to engage in such transactions. We will incur these costs, as well as face the disruptions to our business and the potential harm to our relationships with suppliers, employees and business partners discussed above, even if the merger is not completed. The merger may not provide all of the anticipated benefits. If we are able to complete the merger, we expect to achieve various benefits from combining our and Tutogen’s resources, as well as significant cost savings from a combined operation. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the merger will depend in part upon whether our two companies integrate our businesses in an efficient and effective manner. To date, we have operated independently from Tutogen and legal restrictions limit planning prior to the merger for integration of the two companies. Accordingly, we may not be able to accomplish this integration process smoothly or successfully or in a timely manner. Any inability of management to integrate successfully the operations of our two companies, or to do so in a timely manner, could have an adverse effect on the combined company or the expected benefits from the merger. We depend heavily upon a limited number of sources of human tissue, and any failure to obtain tissue from these sources in a timely manner will interfere with our ability to process and distribute allografts. The limited supply of human tissue has at times limited our growth, and may not be sufficient to meet our future needs. In addition, due to seasonal changes in mortality rates, some scarce tissues that we use for our allografts are at times in particularly short supply. Other factors, some of which are unpredictable, such as negative publicity and regulatory actions in our industry also can unexpectedly reduce the available supply of tissue. We rely on donor recovery groups for our human tissue supply. Donor recovery groups are part of relatively complex relationships. They provide support to donor families, are regulated by the FDA, and are often affiliated with hospitals, universities or organ procurement organizations. Our relationships with donor recovery groups, which are critical to our supply of tissue, can be affected by relationships they have with other organizations. Any negative impact of the regulatory and disease transmission issues facing the industry, as well as the negative publicity that these issues create, could have an impact on our ability to negotiate favorable contracts with recovery groups. Our five largest donor recovery groups together recovered for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 approximately 49%, 48%, and 54%, respectively, of our total tissue supply. Southeast Tissue Alliance, or SETA (formerly the University of Florida Tissue Bank, Inc.) supplied us for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 with approximately 14%, 22%, and 25%, respectively, of our total tissue. RTI Donor Services, Inc. – Texas supplied us for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 with approximately 11%, 0%, and 0%, respectively, of our total tissue. RTI Donor Services, Inc. – Wisconsin supplied us for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 with approximately 7%, 11%, and 13%, respectively, of our total tissue. DCI Donor Services, Inc. supplied us for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 with approximately 9%, 5%, and 5%, respectively, of our total tissue. Alabama Organ Center supplied us for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 with approximately 8%, 10%, and 11%, respectively, of our total tissue. If we were to lose any one of these five sources of tissue, the impact on our operating results would be material. We cannot be sure that our supply of human tissue will continue to be available at current levels or will be sufficient to meet our needs. If we are no longer able to obtain tissue from our current sources sufficient to meet our needs, we may not be able to locate additional replacement sources of tissue on commercially reasonable 15 terms, if at all. Any interruption of our business caused by the need to locate additional sources of tissue would significantly hurt our revenues. We expect our revenues would decline in proportion to any decline in tissue supply. If we fail to maintain our existing strategic relationships or are unable to identify additional distributors of our implants, our revenues may decrease. We currently derive the majority of our revenues through our relationships with two companies, MSD and Exactech. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005 we derived approximately 47%, 54% and 60% and 6%, 6% and 5% of our revenues from distribution by MSD and Exactech, respectively. In addition, MSD provides nearly all of the instrumentation, surgeon training, distribution assistance and marketing materials for our line of spinal allografts. Variations in the timing and volume of orders by MSD sometimes have had a material effect upon our revenues. If our relationship with MSD is terminated or reduced for any reason and we are unable to replace the relationship with other means of distribution, we would suffer a material decrease in revenues. We may need to obtain the assistance of additional distributors to market and distribute our new allografts and technologies, as well as to market and distribute our existing allografts and technologies to new market segments or geographical areas. We may not be able to find additional distributors who will agree to and successfully market and distribute our allografts and technologies on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we are unable to establish additional distribution relationships on favorable terms, our revenues may decline. If third party payers fail to provide appropriate levels of reimbursement for the use of our implants, our revenues would be adversely affected. Political, economic and regulatory influences are subjecting the healthcare industry in the United States to fundamental change. Any new federal or state legislation could result in significant changes in the availability, delivery, pricing or payment for healthcare services and products. While we cannot predict what form any new legislation will take, it is possible that any significant healthcare legislation, if adopted, could lower the amounts paid to us for our services, which would decrease our revenues. Our revenues depend largely on the reimbursement of patients’ medical expenses by government health care programs and private health insurers. Governments and private insurers closely examine medical procedures incorporating new technologies to determine whether the procedures will be covered by payment, and if so, the level of payment which may apply. We cannot be sure that third party payers will continue to reimburse us at current levels. If we fail to maintain the high processing standards that our implants require or if we are unable to develop processing capacity as required, our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated. Our implants require careful calibration and precise, high-quality processing. Achieving precision and quality control requires skill and diligence by our personnel. If we fail to achieve and maintain these high processing standards, including avoiding processing errors, design defects or component failures: • we could be forced to recall, withdraw or suspend distribution of our implants; • our implants and technologies could fail quality assurance and performance tests; • production and deliveries of our implants could be delayed or cancelled; and • our processing costs could increase. 16 Further, to be successful, we will need to manage our human tissue processing capacity related to tissue recovery and demand for our allografts. It may be difficult for us to match our processing capacity to demand due to problems related to yields, quality control and assurance, tissue availability, adequacy of control policies and procedures, and lack of skilled personnel. If we are unable to process and produce our implants on a timely basis, at acceptable quality and costs, and in sufficient quantities, or if we experience unanticipated technological problems or delays in processing, it will reduce our revenues and increase our cost per allograft processed. Our allograft and xenograft implants and technologies could become subject to significantly greater regulation by the FDA, which could disrupt our business. The FDA and several states have statutory authority to regulate allograft processing and allograft-based materials. The FDA could identify deficiencies in future inspections of our facilities or promulgate future regulatory rulings that could disrupt our business, hurting our profitability. For example, in mid-2001, the FDA reviewed our BioCleanse® process after the FDA raised concerns about the process. While the FDA concluded that the compliance portion of its review of our BioCleanse® process in January 2002 and determined we were in compliance with existing FDA requirements and that no regulatory action was warranted, the possibility always exists that the FDA could raise concerns with these or other aspects of our business. The FDA’s decision, that no regulatory action was warranted, does not constitute a formal approval of our BioCleanse® process and the FDA is free to raise the same or similar concerns in the future. If any of our allografts fall under the FDA’s definitions of “more than minimally manipulated or indicated for nonhomologous use,” we would be required to obtain medical device approval or clearance or biologics licenses, which could require clinical testing. Disapproval of our license applications and restricted distribution of any of our allografts, which may become subject to pre-market approval, may result. The FDA could require post-market testing and surveillance to monitor the effects of such allografts, could restrict the commercial applications of these allografts, and could conduct periodic inspections of our facility and our suppliers’ facilities. Delays encountered during the FDA approval process could shorten the patent protection period during which we have the exclusive right to commercialize such technologies or could allow others to come to market with similar technologies before us. FDA regulations of human cellular and tissue-based products, titled “Good Tissue Practices,” became effective as of May 2005. These regulations cover all stages of allograft processing, from procurement of tissue to distribution of final allografts. These regulations may increase regulatory scrutiny within our industry and lead to increased enforcement action which affects the conduct of our business. In addition, the effect of these regulations may have a significant effect upon recovery agencies which supply us with tissue and increase the cost of recovery activities. Any such increase would translate into increased costs to us, as we reimburse the recovery agencies based on their cost of recovery. Other regulatory entities include state agencies with statutes covering tissue banking. Of particular relevance to our business are regulations issued by Florida, New York, California and Maryland. Most states do not currently have tissue banking regulations. However, recent incidents of allograft related infections in the industry may stimulate the development of regulation in other states. It is possible that others may make allegations against us or against donor recovery groups or tissue banks, including those with which we have a relationship, about non-compliance with applicable FDA regulations or other relevant statutes and regulations. Allegations like these could cause regulators or other authorities to take investigative or other action, or could cause negative publicity for our business and the industry in which we operate. Some of our implants in development will contain tissue derived from animals, commonly referred to as xenografts. Xenograft implants are medical devices that are subject to pre-market approval or clearance by the FDA. We received FDA clearance on several xenograft implants in 2005, 2006 and 2007. However, we may not receive FDA approval or clearance to market new implants as we attempt to expand the quantity of xenograft implants available for distribution. 17 The allograft industry is subject to additional local, state, federal and international government regulations and any increased regulations of our current or future activities could significantly increase the cost of doing business, thereby reducing our profitability. Some aspects of our business are subject to additional local, state, federal or international regulation. Changes in the laws or new interpretations of existing laws could negatively affect our business, revenues or prospects, and increase the costs associated with conducting our business. In particular, the procurement and transplantation of allograft tissue is subject to federal regulation under the National Organ Transplant Act, or NOTA, a criminal statute that prohibits the purchase and sale of human organs, including bone and other tissue. NOTA permits the payment of reasonable expenses associated with the transportation, processing, preservation, quality control and storage of human tissue, which are the types of services we perform. If in the future NOTA were amended or interpreted in a way that made us unable to include some of these costs in the amounts we charge our customers, it could reduce our revenues and therefore hurt our business. It is possible that more restrictive interpretations or expansions of NOTA could be adopted in the future which could require us to change one or more aspects of our business, at a substantial cost, in order to continue to comply with this statute. A variety of additional local, state, federal and international government laws and regulations govern our business, including those relating to the storage, handling, generation, manufacture and disposal of medical wastes from the processing of tissue. If we fail to conduct our business in compliance with these laws and regulations, we could be subject to significant liabilities. We could be subject to significant liabilities arising from hazardous biological materials for which our insurance may not be adequate. Moreover, such insurance may not always be available in the future on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If our insurance proves to be inadequate to pay a damage award, we may not have sufficient funds to do so, which could harm our financial condition and liquidity. Our success will depend on the continued acceptance of our allograft and xenograft implants and technologies by the medical community. Our new allograft and xenograft implants, technologies or enhancements to existing implants may never achieve broad market acceptance, which can be affected by numerous factors, including: • lack of clinical acceptance of our implants and technologies; • introduction of competitive tissue repair treatment options which render our implants and technologies too expensive or obsolete; • lack of availability of third-party reimbursement; and • difficulty training surgeons in the use of our tissue implants and technologies. Market acceptance will also depend on our ability to demonstrate that our existing and new implants and technologies are an attractive alternative to existing tissue repair treatment options. Our ability to do so will depend on surgeons’ evaluations of the clinical safety, efficacy, ease of use, reliability and cost-effectiveness of these tissue repair options and technologies. For example, we believe that some in the medical community have lingering concerns over the risk of disease transmission through the use of allografts. Furthermore, we believe that even if the medical community generally accepts our implants and technologies, recommendations and endorsements by influential surgeons will be important to their broad commercial success. If our implants and technologies are not broadly accepted in the marketplace, we may not achieve a competitive position in the market. Rapid technological changes will affect us and our customers, which could result in reduced demand for our products. Technologies change rapidly in our industry. For example, steady improvements have been made in synthetic human tissue substitutes which compete with our tissue implants. Unlike allografts, synthetic tissue 18 technologies are not dependent on the availability of tissue. If one of our competitors successfully introduces synthetic technologies using recombinant technologies, which stimulate the growth of tissue surrounding an implant, it could result in a decline in demand for tissue implants. We may not be able to respond effectively to technological changes and emerging industry standards, or to successfully identify, develop or support new technologies or enhancements to existing implants in a timely and cost-effective manner, if at all. If we are unable to achieve the improvements in our implants necessary for their successful commercialization, the demand for our implants will suffer. We face intense competition, which could result in reduced acceptance and demand for our implants and technologies. The medical technology/biotechnology industry is intensely competitive. We compete with companies in the United States and internationally that engage in the development and production of medical technologies and processes including: • biotechnology, orthopedic, pharmaceutical, biomaterial and other companies; • academic and scientific institutions; and • public and private research organizations. Many of our competitors have much greater financial, technical, research, marketing, distribution, service and other resources than we have. Moreover, our competitors may offer a broader array of tissue repair treatment products and technologies or may have greater name recognition than we do in the marketplace. For example, we compete with a number of divisions of Johnson & Johnson, a company with significantly greater resources and brand recognition than we have. Our competitors, including several development stage companies, may develop or market technologies that are more effective or commercially attractive than ours, or that may render our technologies obsolete. For example, the successful development of a synthetic tissue product that permits remodeling of bones could result in a decline in the demand for allograft and xenograft-based products and technologies. If we do not manage the medical release of donor tissue into processing in an effective and efficient manner, it could affect our profitability. Many factors affect the level and timing of donor medical releases, such as effectiveness of donor screening performed by our donor recovery groups, the timely receipt, recording and review of required medical documentation, and employee loss and turnover in our medical records department. Some of our donor recovery groups are also processors who provide us with partially processed tissues which they have already determined to be medically suitable for processing. Therefore, these sources provide a higher level of documentation than those that perform donor recovery alone. We can provide no assurance that releases will occur at levels which maximize our processing efficiency and minimize our cost per allograft processed. Negative publicity concerning methods of human tissue recovery and screening of donor tissue in our industry could reduce demand for our allografts and impact the supply of available donor tissue. Media reports or other negative publicity concerning both improper methods of tissue recovery from donors and disease transmission from donated tissue could limit widespread acceptance of our allografts. Unfavorable reports of improper or illegal tissue recovery practices, both in the United States and internationally, as well as incidents of improperly processed tissue leading to transmission of disease, may broadly affect the rate of future tissue donation and market acceptance of allograft technologies. Potential patients may not distinguish our allografts, technologies and the tissue recovery and the processing procedures we have in place, from those of our competitors or others engaged in tissue recovery. In addition, families of potential donors may become reluctant to agree to donate tissue to for-profit tissue processors. 19 If our patents and the other means we use to protect our intellectual property prove to be inadequate, our competitors could exploit our intellectual property to compete more effectively against us. The law of patents and trade secrets is constantly evolving and often involves complex legal and factual questions. The U.S. government may deny or significantly reduce the coverage we seek in our patent applications before or after a patent is issued. We therefore cannot be sure that any particular patent for which we apply will be issued, that the scope of the patent protection will be comprehensive enough to provide adequate protection from similar technologies which may compete with ours, that interference proceedings regarding any of our patent applications will not be filed, or that we will achieve any other competitive advantage from a patent. In addition, it is possible that one or more of our patents will be held invalid if challenged or that others will claim rights in or ownership of our patents and other proprietary rights. If any of these events occur, our competitors may be able to use its intellectual property to compete more effectively against us. Because patent applications are secret until patents are actually issued (or until 18 months after a patent application has been filed) and the publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature lags behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that our patent application was the first application filed covering a particular invention. If another party’s rights to an invention are superior to ours, we may not be able to obtain a license to use that party’s invention on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, our competitors, many of which have greater resources than we do, could obtain patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make use of our inventions either in the United States or in international markets. Further, the laws of some foreign countries do not always protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Litigation or regulatory proceedings in the United States or foreign countries also may be necessary to enforce our patent or other intellectual property rights or to determine the scope and validity of our competitors’ proprietary rights. These proceedings can be costly, result in development delays, and divert our management’s attention from our business. We also rely upon unpatented proprietary techniques and processes in tissue recovery, research and development, tissue processing and quality assurance. It is possible that others will independently develop technology similar to ours or otherwise gain access to or disclose our proprietary technologies. We may not be able to meaningfully protect our rights in these proprietary technologies, which would reduce our ability to compete. Our success will depend in part on our ability to operate without infringing on or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others, and if we are unable to do so we may be liable for damages. We cannot be certain that U.S. or foreign patents or patent applications of other companies do not exist or will not be issued that would prevent us from commercializing our allografts and technologies. Third parties may sue us for infringing or misappropriating their patent or other intellectual property rights. Intellectual property litigation is costly. If we do not prevail in litigation, in addition to any damages we might have to pay, we could be required to stop the infringing activity or obtain a license requiring us to make royalty payments. It is possible that a required license will not be available to us on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, a required license may be non-exclusive, and therefore our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license or are unable to design around another company’s patent, we may be unable to make use of some of the affected technologies or distribute the affected allografts which would negatively impact our revenues. The defense costs and settlements for patent infringement lawsuits are not covered by insurance. Patent infringement lawsuits can take up to several years to settle. If we are not successful in our defenses or not successful in obtaining dismissals of any such lawsuit, legal fees or settlement costs could have a material adverse effect on our quarterly results of operations and our financial position. 20 On September 11, 2006, Osteotech, Inc. filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey claiming infringement of one of their patents by our BioCleanse® process. The suit requests (i) that we be enjoined permanently from infringing the patent, (ii) damages, along with treble damages as a result of alleged willful infringement, and (iii) reimbursement of costs and expenses and reasonable attorney fees. The parties have exchanged substantial written discovery, much of which has been filed under seal in accordance with a stipulated Discovery Confidentiality Order. We have filed a motion for partial summary judgment, on which a hearing is pending. We believe the suit is without merit and we have, and we will continue to, vigorously defend our position. However, a finding of infringement could have a material adverse effect upon our revenues. We or our competitors may be exposed to product or professional liability claims which could cause us to be liable for damages or cause investors to think we will be liable for similar claims in the future. The development of allografts and technologies for human tissue repair and treatment entails an inherent risk of product or professional liability claims, and substantial product or professional liability claims may be asserted against us. We are party to a number of legal proceedings relating to product liability. The implantation of donated human tissue products creates the potential for transmission of communicable disease. Although we comply with Federal and state regulations and guidelines intended to prevent communicable disease transmission, and our tissue suppliers are also required to comply with such regulations, there can be no assurances that: (i) our tissue suppliers will comply with such regulations intended to prevent communicable disease transmissions; (ii) even if such compliance is achieved, that our products have not been or will not be associated with transmission of disease; or (iii) a patient otherwise infected with disease would not erroneously assert a claim that the use of our products resulted in disease transmission. We currently have $20 million of product liability insurance and $20 million of professional liability insurance to cover claims. This amount of insurance may not be adequate for current claims if we are not successful in our defenses, and furthermore, we may not have adequate insurance coverage for any future claims that arise. Moreover, insurance covering our business may not always be available in the future on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If our insurance proves to be inadequate to pay a damage award, we may not have sufficient funds to do so, which would harm our financial condition and liquidity. In addition, successful product liability claims made against one of our competitors could cause claims to be made against us or expose us to a perception that we are vulnerable to similar claims. Claims against us, regardless of their merit or potential outcome, may also hurt our ability to obtain surgeon endorsement of our allografts or to expand our business. We have been named as a party, along with a number of other defendants, in tort based lawsuits relating to the recall of tissue recovered by Biomedical Tissue Service, Ltd., an unaffiliated recovery agency (“BTS”). As of January 31 2008, there have been 831 law suits filed related to the recall of which 13 law suits have been dismissed. These lawsuits generally allege that we were negligent in not discovering deficiencies in recovery practices at BTS and include related claims for matters such as misrepresentation and breach of warranty. On October 20, 2006, we filed a joint motion in federal court to dismiss the claims based on scientific evidence that it is impossible for sterilized tissue to transmit infections to implant recipients. This “science first” motion has been updated to reflect that no freeze dried allograft has ever transmitted disease or infection from a donor to a patient. Where specific damages have been identified, the actions seek compensatory damages in ranges of $15,000 to $5 million and punitive damages in ranges of $75,000 to $10 million. We believe that we have meritorious defenses to these claims, and are defending them vigorously. In addition, we believe our existing insurance should cover all litigation expenses and damage awards, if any. However, the existing insurance coverage may not be adequate if we are not successful in our defenses and certain lawsuits may not be eligible for such insurance coverage. If we are not successful in our defenses to lawsuits not covered by insurance, or if existing insurance coverage is not adequate, the legal fees and settlements for such lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on quarterly results of our operations and our financial position. 21 If we are not successful in expanding our distribution activities into international markets, we will not be able to pursue one of our strategies for increasing our revenues. Our current and planned international distribution strategies vary by market, as well as within each country in which we operate. For example, we distribute only a portion of our line of allograft and xenograft products within each country. Our international operations will be subject to a number of risks which may vary from the risks we face in the United States, including: • the need to obtain regulatory approvals in additional foreign countries before we can offer our implants and technologies for use; • longer distribution-to-collection cycles, as well as difficulty in collecting amounts owed to us; • dependence on local distributors; • limited protection of intellectual property rights; • fluctuations in the values of foreign currencies; and • political and economic instability. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 