Item 1A. Risk Factors This report may contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements and the currently reported results are based upon our current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects upon us. These statements and our results reported herein are not guarantees of future performance or results and there can be no assurance that actual developments and economic performance will be as anticipated by us. Actual developments and/or results may differ significantly and adversely from our expected or currently reported results as a result of significant risks, uncertainties and factors, often beyond our control (as well as the various assumptions utilized in determining our expectations), and which include, but are not limited to, the following: · our ability to adopt and implement a viable business plan that will permit us to operate profitably; · the impact of the Orders on our ability to conduct our business; · our ability to maintain sufficient cash flow to meet debt service and other obligations; · the variability of general and specific economic conditions and trends, and changes in, and the level of, interest rates; · the impact of competition and pricing environments on deposit products; · the ability to access the necessary capital resources in a cost-effective manner to fund our operations; · the impact of changes in the residential, construction and commercial real estate markets and changes in the fair values of our assets and loans, including the value of the underlying real estate collateral; · the effect of certain determinations or actions taken by, or the inability to secure regulatory approvals from, the OTS on various matters; · the ability to maintain effective compliance with laws and regulations and control expenses; · the ability to maintain an effective system of internal and financial disclosure controls, and to identify and remediate any control deficiencies; and · other events, risks and uncertainties discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K and from time to time in our other reports, press releases and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to publicly update such forward-looking statements. You should carefully consider the following risks in light of our current operating environment and regulatory status. The occurrence of any of the events described below could materially adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. Additional risks not presently known by us or that we currently deem immaterial may also have a materially adverse impact. Risks Relating to Our Liquidity The Company does not on its own have sufficient resources to satisfy its obligations. As a savings institution holding company, the Company has historically paid its operating expenses, interest expense, taxes and other obligations, including interest on its line of credit and junior subordinated debentures, from its cash on hand, investments, and intercompany tax payments. Without an additional capital infusion as well as possibly a restructuring of 31 existing debt obligations, current cash flows and capital resources of the Company will be insufficient to fund the Company’s operating expenses and to meet its debt service obligations on the junior subordinated debentures beginning in August, 2008 or, more importantly, to pay off the $17.5 million line of credit which is due on June 30, 2008. Since the Orders prohibit the Bank from paying cash dividends without the prior written consent of the OTS, the Company will only be able to rely upon existing cash and cash equivalents as the sources of its liquidity. Without the ability to rely on dividends from the Bank, the Company will require funds from other capital sources to meet its obligations such as restructuring the current line of credit or replacing the current line of credit. Any increase in the Company’s outstanding indebtedness will also require OTS approval. The Company is actively evaluating various capital strategies to meet its obligations, including restructuring its outstanding debt and selling branch offices. The Company cannot provide assurance that it will succeed in accomplishing any restructuring of its existing debt or selling branches before its capital resources are depleted. Failure to restructure the Company’s debt obligations or to sell branches will have a material adverse effect on, and impair, the Company’s business, financial condition and ability to operate as a going concern. See “–Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm’s Report with Disclosure of Going Concern Issue.” The Company’s line of credit is secured by the Bank’s common stock. The Company’s primary asset consists of the outstanding shares of common stock of the Bank. The Company’s $17.5 million line of credit, all of which is currently outstanding as of April 14, 2008, is secured by the outstanding shares of common stock of the Bank. Although the $17.5 million outstanding under the line is due on June 30, 2008, the Company was not in compliance with one of the loan convents at December 31, 2007 and the lender has the ability to accelerate all outstanding amounts upon notice and the passage of 30 days. The Company is currently negotiating with the lender regarding a waiver of the default, and a modification and/or extension of the line of credit. Effect of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm’s Report With Disclosure Of Going Concern Issue. The report of our independent Registered Public Accountants, which is included in our Annual Report to Stockholders, contains an explanatory paragraph as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Among the factors cited by the accountants as raising substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern are the recurring losses, the agreements with the OTS and uncertainty about the Company’s ability to meet obligations coming due in 2008. See Note P of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. See also “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Changes in Financial Condition” for management’s discussion of our financial condition at December 31, 2007. Risks Relating to Our Compliance With Applicable Regulatory Requirements and Developments The Bank is subject to supervision and regulation by the OTS. As a regulated federal savings bank, the Bank’s good standing with its regulators is of fundamental importance to the continuation of its business. As more fully described in Item 1 – “Business – General,” on April 2, 2008, the Company and the Bank both consented to the Orders issued by the OTS. The Orders require the Company and the Bank to, among other things, file with the OTS an updated business plan and submit to the OTS, on a quarterly basis, variance reports related to the business plan. The Order issued to the Bank also substantially restricts the Bank’s lending activities. We cannot predict the further impact of the Orders upon our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, we cannot predict whether the OTS will take any further action with respect to the Bank or the Company, or, if any such further action were taken, whether such action, including the actions described in Item 1. “Business - General,” would have a material adverse effect on the Company or the Bank. Other Risks Related to Our Business Lack of profitable operations in recent periods could continue. The recessionary forces in the local economy have impacted the Company’s operations and profitability and may continue to do so. For the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company incurred losses of $33.3 million and $4.1 million, respectively. As the Bank’s primary lending area is the southwest Ohio and southeast Indiana regions, the significant downturn in the real estate market in these regions significantly impacts the asset quality and provision for loan loss requirements of the Bank. While the Bank’s management continues to aggressively pursue the collection and resolution of all delinquent and non performing loans, future levels of charge offs and adjustments to the allowance could significantly affect future net earnings. 32 Changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The earnings of the Company depend substantially on the interest rate spread, which is the difference between the rates the Company earns on loans, investment securities and other interest-earning assets, and the interest rates the Company pays on deposits and borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond the control of the Company, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. While the Company has taken measures intended to manage the risk of operating in a changing interest rate environment, there can be no assurance that such measures will be effective in avoiding undue interest rate risk. Regional economic changes in the Company’s markets could adversely impact results from operations. Like all banks, the Company is subject to the effects of any economic downturn, and the significant decline in home values, residential development and commercial properties in the Company’s markets have had and may continue to have a negative effect on results of operations. The Company’s success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in the counties in which the Company conducts business, and in the southwest Ohio and southeast Indiana area in general. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, the Company provides banking and financial services to customers primarily in the southwest Ohio counties of Butler, Hamilton and Warren counties, as well as Dearborn and Ohio counties in Indiana. The local economic conditions in these market areas have a significant impact on the Company’s ability to originate loans, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. A significant decline in the general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond the Company’s control could continue to adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, because the Company has a significant amount of loans secured by commercial, multi-family, and non-owner occupied investment properties, decreases in tenant occupancy may also continue to have a negative effect on the ability of many of the Company’s borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would continue to have an adverse impact on the Company’s earnings. A significant decline in home values would likely lead to increased delinquencies and defaults in both consumer and home equity loans and owner-occupied residential real estate loan portfolios and result in increased losses in the portfolios. Recently, there has been a significant downturn in the local economy, a softening in the real estate market and a oversupply of lots, speculative homes and non-owner occupied rental units, leading to cash flow issues faced by local property investors, builders, and developers. These issues have had a material adverse impact on the Bank’s nonaccrual loans. At December 31, 2007, the Bank’s nonperforming loans amounted to $25.9 million, or 4.1% of total net loans. The resolution of such nonperforming loans may substantially impact the Company’s provision for loan losses and allowance for loan losses. Losses on a few large loans or lending relationships can cause significant volatility in earnings. Due to the Company’s limited size, individual loan values can be large relative to the Company’s earnings for a particular period. If a few relatively large loan relationships become non-performing in a period and the Company is required to increase its loss reserves, or to write off principal or interest relative to such loans, the operating results of that period could be significantly adversely affected. The effect on results of operations for any given period from a change in the performance of a relatively small number of loan relationships may be disproportionately larger than the impact of such loans on the quality of the Company’s overall loan portfolio. In each of the third and fourth quarters of 2006 and all of 2007, the Company incurred losses on lending relationships that significantly impacted operating results for the relevant period. As of December 31, 2007, the Bank’s nonperforming loans amounted to $25.9 million, with eight borrowers owing $14.6 million, or 56.3% of the total nonperforming loans. In addition, nonresidential real estate secured non-accrual loans totaled $10.7 million at December 31, 2007, or 41.1% of the total nonperforming loans. 33 Impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets could require charges to earnings, which could result in a negative impact on the Company’s results of operations. Under current accounting standards, goodwill and certain other intangible assets with indeterminate lives are no longer amortized but, instead, are assessed for impairment periodically or when impairment indicators are present. Assessment of goodwill and such other intangible assets could result in circumstances where the applicable intangible asset is deemed to be impaired for accounting purposes. Under such circumstances, the intangible asset’s impairment would be reflected as a charge to earnings in the period during which such impairment is identified. The Bank recorded goodwill totaling $23.9 million in conjunction with acquisitions of other financial institutions over the past five years. Following an updated valuation in the fourth quarter of 2007 by an independent third party, the Bank incurred a non-cash impairment charge of $11.4 million for the writedown of goodwill. This impairment is primarily attributable to lower market valuations for financial institutions in the latter part of 2007, the weakening of the credit market in the second half of 2007, the decline in real estate values, particularly in the Cincinnati region, and the net losses recorded by the Bank and Company for the past six quarters. Additional valuation allowance of deferred tax asset would negatively impact net earnings or loss. During 2007, the Company recorded a valuation allowance of $4.4 million based principally on uncertainty about the Company’s ability to generate sufficient future taxable income to realize all of the related temporary differences. The Company believes that it will realize the remaining deferred tax assets through taxable income resulting from the planned profitable sale of branches of the Bank within the next twelve months. To the extent that the Bank does not generate taxable income, through the sale of branches or otherwise, the Company may be required to record a further valuation allowance which would adversely impact net earnings or loss. New or revised tax, accounting and other laws, regulations, rules and standards could significantly impact strategic initiatives, results of operations and financial condition. The financial services industry is highly regulated and laws and regulations may sometimes impose significant limitations on operations. These limitations, and sources or potential liability for the violation of such laws and regulation, are described in Item 1 of Part I of this report under the heading “Business – Regulation.” These regulations, along with the currently existing tax and accounting laws, regulations, rules and standards, control the methods by which financial institutions conduct business; implement strategic initiatives, as well as past, present, and contemplated tax planning; and govern financial disclosures. These laws, regulations, rules, and standards are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. The nature, extent, and timing of the adoption of significant new laws, changes in existing laws, or repeal of existing laws may have a material impact on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition, the effects of which are impossible to predict at this time. Strong competition within the Company’s market area may limit profitability. The Company faces significant competition both in attracting deposits and in the origination of loans, as described in Item 1 of Part I of this report under the heading “Business – Competition.” Mortgage bankers, commercial banks, credit unions and other savings institutions, which have offices in the Bank’s market area have historically provided most of the Company’s competition for deposits. Many competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than the Company. Moreover, the Company may face increased competition in the origination of loans if competing thrift institutions convert to stock form, because such converting thrifts would likely seek to invest their new capital into loans. Finally, credit unions do not pay federal or state income taxes and are subject to fewer regulatory constraints than savings banks and as a result, they may enjoy a competitive advantage over the Company. The Bank competes for loans principally on the basis of the interest rates and loan fees it charges, the types of loans it originates and the quality of services it provides to borrowers. This advantage places significant competitive pressure on the prices of loans and deposits. The extended disruption of vital infrastructure could negatively impact the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s operations depend upon, among other things, its technology and physical infrastructure, including its equipment and facilities. Extended disruption of its vital infrastructure by fire, power loss, natural disaster, telecommunications failure, computer hacking and viruses, terrorist activity or the domestic and foreign response to such activity, or other events outside of the Company’s control, could have a material adverse impact either on the financial services industry as a whole, or on the Company’s business, results of operations, and financial condition. In order to mitigate some of this risk, the Company has a business continuity plan that is regularly updated and tested. 34 Risks Relating to Our Capital Stock We do not anticipate declaring dividends for the foreseeable future. The Company’s Board of Directors has not declared any dividends since the third quarter of 2007. The Orders prohibit the Bank from paying cash dividends to the Company, which is its primary source for funding dividends to the Company’s shareholders, without the prior approval of the OTS. The Company believes it has very limited or no ability to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future, and is prohibited by the Orders from doing so without the consent of the OTS. Other risk factors. The above description of risk factors is not exhaustive. Other risk factors are described elsewhere herein as well as in other reports and documents that we file with or furnish to the SEC. Other factors that could also cause results to differ from our expectations may not be described in any such report or document. Each of these factors could by itself, or together with one or more other factors, adversely affect our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 35 