Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as other information in this Form 10-K and the information contained in our other filings with the SEC. You should carefully consider the following risks in light of our current operating environment and regulatory status. The occurrence of any of the events described below could materially adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to continue as a going concern. Additional risks not presently known by us or that we currently deem immaterial may also have a material adverse impact. Risks Relating to Our Liquidity The Company does not on its own have sufficient resources to satisfy its obligations and, therefore, we have substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. As a savings institution holding company, the Company has historically paid its operating expenses, interest expense, taxes and other obligations, including interest on its line of credit and junior subordinated debentures, from its cash on hand, investments, and inter-company tax payments. Without an additional capital infusion as well as possibly a restructuring of existing debt obligations, current cash flows and capital resources of the Company will be insufficient to fund the Company’s operating expenses, to meet its debt service obligations on the junior subordinated debentures beginning in August, 2008 and to pay off the $17.5 million line of credit from Integra, which was due and payable on June 30, 2008. Since the Orders prohibit the Bank from paying cash dividends without the prior written consent of the OTS, the Company will be able to rely only upon a limited amount of existing cash and cash equivalents as the sources of its liquidity. Without the ability to rely on dividends from the Bank, the Company will require funds from other capital sources to meet its obligations such as restructuring or replacing its line of credit. Any increase in the Company’s outstanding indebtedness will also require OTS approval. The Company does not have sufficient liquidity to pay its outstanding debt and to continue to pay its operating expenses. The Bank’s inability to dividend funds to the Company effectively precludes the Company from repaying its outstanding obligations on its line of credit from Integra. The forbearance agreement, dated July 24, 2008, between the Company and Integra that extended the Company’s repayment period has expired. Therefore, Integra has the right to initiate or prosecute any action in any court to collect the indebtedness. The Company has been actively evaluating various capital strategies to meet its obligations, including restructuring its outstanding debt and selling branch offices. The Company cannot provide assurance that it will succeed in accomplishing any restructuring of its existing debt or selling branches before its capital resources 33 Table of Contents are depleted. Failure to restructure the Company’s debt obligations or to sell branches will further jeopardize the Company’s business, financial condition and ability to operate as a going concern. Currently, there is significant doubt whether the Company can continue as an ongoing business. See “Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.” A successful transaction or other strategic alternative, if identified, evaluated and consummated, may not provide a greater value to stockholders than that reflected in the current stock price. As a result, you may not realize a return on your investment in the Company’s common stock. Absent an extraordinary transaction, however, the Company may not be able to continue operations. If the Company ceases business activities, it is likely that you will lose your investment. The Company is in default on its line of credit, which is secured by the Bank’s common stock. The Company’s primary asset consists of the outstanding shares of common stock of the Bank. The Company’s $17.5 million line of credit with Integra is secured by the outstanding shares of common stock of the Bank. The $17.5 million principal balance currently outstanding under the line of credit became due and payable on June 30, 2008. Effective July 24, 2008, the Company entered into a forbearance agreement with Integra, which extended the Company’s repayment period. The forbearance agreement is no longer in effect, however, and the forbearance period expired on January 31, 2009. Therefore, the Company is currently in default on its line of credit and, as a result, Integra has a legal claim to the outstanding shares of common stock of the Bank that were pledged by the Company to secure the credit line. Effect of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm’s Report with disclosure of going concern issue. The reports of our independent Registered Public Accountants, which are included in our 2007 and 2008 Annual Reports to Stockholders, contain explanatory paragraphs as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Among the factors cited by the accountants as raising substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern are the recurring losses, the agreements with the OTS and uncertainty about the Company’s ability to meet obligations that came due in 2008. See Note P of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. See also “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Discussions of Financial Condition Changes from December 31, 2007 to December 31, 2008” for management’s discussion of our financial condition at December 31, 2008. Risks Relating to Our Compliance with Applicable Regulatory Requirements, Regulatory Enforcement Actions and Developments Compliance with applicable regulatory requirements may have a material adverse effect on our business. The Bank is subject to supervision and regulation by the OTS. As a regulated federal savings bank, the Bank’s good standing with its regulators is of fundamental importance to the continuation of its business. As more fully described in Item 1 — “Business — Regulatory Enforcement Actions,” on April 2, 2008, the Company and the Bank both consented to the Orders issued by the OTS. The Orders require the Company and the Bank to, among other things, file with the OTS an updated business plan and submit to the OTS, on a quarterly basis, variance reports related to the business plan. The Order issued to the Bank also substantially restricts the Bank’s lending activities. We cannot predict the further impact of the Orders upon our business, financial condition or results of operations. At December 31, 2008, the Bank did not meet two of the three regulatory capital requirements applicable to the Bank. In addition, at such date, the Bank was deemed a significantly undercapitalized institution under the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action. Further, at March 31, 2009, the Bank was deemed a critically undercapitalized institution under the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action. As a result, the Bank is subject to numerous operational restrictions and requirements, including the requirement to file a capital restoration plan to return to an adequately capitalized status. The Company and the Bank are currently in negotiations concerning a transaction to sell certain branches of the Bank, the proposed results of which are the basis for the Bank’s capital restoration plan, as filed with the OTS on April 30, 2009. The Bank 34 Table of Contents intends to negotiate and enter unto a transaction to sell certain branches in order to reduce assets and liabilities, generate a deposit premium and return the Bank to an adequately capitalized status. The Company cannot provide assurance that such a transaction will be entered into or consummated or that the Bank’s capital restoration plan will be acceptable to the OTS. If the Bank’s capital plan is not approved by the OTS or the Bank cannot enter into and consummate a transaction to return the Bank to an adequately capitalized status on a timely basis, the Company will not be able to continue as a going concern. For a further discussion of the Company’s and the Bank’s regulatory enforcement actions, see “Business — Regulatory Enforcement Actions” beginning on page 2 herein. Other Risks Related to Our Business Lack of profitable operations in recent periods could continue. The recessionary forces in the local economy have impacted our operations and profitability and are expected to continue to do so. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company incurred losses of $68.5 million and $33.3 million, respectively. As the Bank’s primary lending area is the southwest Ohio and southeast Indiana regions, the significant downturn in the real estate market in these regions significantly impacts the asset quality and provision for loan loss requirements of the Bank. While the Bank’s management continues to aggressively pursue the collection and resolution of all delinquent and non-performing loans, future levels of charge offs and adjustments to the allowance could significantly affect future net earnings or losses. Changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our earnings depend substantially on the interest rate spread, which is the difference between the rates we earn on loans, investment securities and other interest-earning assets, and the interest rates we pay on deposits and borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. While we have taken measures intended to manage the risk of operating in a changing interest rate environment, there can be no assurance that such measures will be effective in avoiding undue interest rate risk. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected our industry. Peoples is particularly exposed to downturns in the U.S. housing market. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities, major commercial and investment banks, and regional financial institutions such as Peoples. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets have adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: · We expect to face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. · Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage and underwrite our customers become less predictive of future behaviors. 35 Table of Contents · The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic predictions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process. · Competition in our industry could intensify as a result of the increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions. · Our liquidity could be negatively impacted by an inability to access the capital markets, unforeseen or extraordinary demands on cash, or regulatory restrictions, which could, among other things, materially and adversely affect our business prospects and financial condition. Regional economic changes in the Company’s markets have had and may continue to adversely impact results from operations. Like all financial institutions, Peoples is subject to the effects of any economic downturn, and the significant decline in home values, residential development and commercial properties in our markets have had and will continue to have a negative effect on results of operations. Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in the counties in which we conduct business, and in the southwest Ohio and southeast Indiana area in general. Unlike larger financial institutions that are more geographically diversified, Peoples provides banking and financial services to customers primarily in the southwest Ohio counties of Butler, Hamilton and Warren counties, as well as Dearborn and Ohio counties in Indiana. The local economic conditions in these market areas have a significant impact on our ability to originate loans, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. The significant declines in the general economic conditions caused by recession, unemployment and other factors beyond our control have had and will continue to adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, because we have a significant amount of loans secured by commercial, multi-family, and non-owner occupied investment properties, decreases in tenant occupancy may also continue to have a negative effect on the ability of many of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would continue to have an adverse impact on our earnings. Further declines in home values would likely lead to increased delinquencies and defaults in both consumer and home equity loans and owner-occupied residential real estate loan portfolios and result in increased losses in the portfolios. Over the last 18 months, there has been a significant downturn in the local economy, a softening in the real estate market and an oversupply of lots, speculative homes and non-owner occupied rental units, leading to cash flow issues faced by local property investors, builders, and developers. These issues have had a material adverse impact on the Bank’s nonaccrual loans. At December 31, 2008, the Bank’s nonperforming loans amounted to $43.1 million, or 9.33% of total net loans. The resolution of such nonperforming loans may substantially impact our provision for loan losses and allowance for loan losses. There can be no assurance that enacted legislation or any proposed federal programs will stabilize the U.S. financial system. There has been much legislative and regulatory action in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and threats to investment banks and other financial institutions. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the legislation and its implementing regulations or any other governmental program will have on the financial markets. The failure of the actions by the legislators, the regulatory bodies or the U.S. government to stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and access to credit or the trading price of our common shares. Our loan portfolio is predominantly secured by real estate and thus we have risk from a further downturn in our real estate markets. A further downturn in our real estate markets will hurt our business because many of our loans are secured by real estate. Real estate values and real estate markets are generally affected by changes in national, regional or 36 Table of Contents local economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of loans to potential purchasers, and changes in tax laws and other governmental statutes, regulations and policies. Substantially all of our real estate collateral is located in southwest Ohio and southeast Indiana. If real estate values continue to further decline, the value of real estate collateral securing our loans could be significantly reduced. Our ability to recover on defaulted loans by foreclosing and selling the real estate collateral would then be diminished and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. Losses on a few large loans or lending relationships can cause significant volatility in operations. Due to our limited size, individual loan values can be large relative to our operations for a particular period. If a few relatively large loan relationships become non-performing in a period and Peoples is required to increase its loss reserves, or to write off principal or interest relative to such loans, the operating results of that period could be significantly adversely affected. The effect on results of operations for any given period from a change in the performance of a relatively small number of loan relationships may be disproportionately larger than the impact of such loans on the quality of Peoples’ overall loan portfolio. In both 2007 and 2008, we incurred losses on lending relationships that significantly impacted operating results for the relevant period. As of December 31, 2008, the Bank’s nonperforming loans amounted to $43.1 million, with five borrowers representing $14.4 million, or 33.4% of total nonperforming loans. New or revised tax, accounting and other laws, regulations, rules and standards could significantly impact strategic initiatives, results of operations and financial condition. The financial services industry is highly regulated and laws and regulations may sometimes impose significant limitations on operations. These limitations, and sources or potential liability for the violation of such laws and regulation, are described in Item 1 of Part I of this report under the heading “Business — Regulation.” These regulations, along with the currently existing tax and accounting laws, regulations, rules and standards, control the methods by which financial institutions conduct business; implement strategic initiatives, as well as past, present, and contemplated tax planning; and govern financial disclosures. These laws, regulations, rules, and standards are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. The nature, extent, and timing of the adoption of significant new laws, changes in existing laws, or repeal of existing laws may have a material impact on our results of operations and financial condition, the effects of which are impossible to predict at this time. Strong competition within our market area may limit profitability. Peoples faces significant competition both in attracting deposits and in the origination of loans, as described in Item 1 of Part I of this report under the heading “Business — Competition.” Mortgage bankers, commercial banks, credit unions and other savings institutions, which have offices in the Bank’s market area have historically provided most of our competition for deposits. Many competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. Moreover, we may face increased competition in the origination of loans if competing thrift institutions convert to stock form, because such converting thrifts would likely seek to invest their new capital into loans. Finally, credit unions do not pay federal or state income taxes and are subject to fewer regulatory constraints than savings banks and as a result, they may enjoy a competitive advantage over us. The Bank competes for loans principally on the basis of the interest rates and loan fees it charges, the types of loans it originates and the quality of services it provides to borrowers. This advantage places significant competitive pressure on the prices of loans and deposits. Risks Relating to Our Capital Stock We do not anticipate declaring dividends for the foreseeable future. The Company’s Board of Directors has not declared any dividends since the third quarter of 2007. The Orders prohibit the Bank from paying cash dividends to the Company, which is its primary source for funding dividends to the Company’s shareholders, without the prior approval of the OTS. We believe that the Company has no ability to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future, and are prohibited by the Orders from doing so without the consent of the OTS. 37 Table of Contents Other Risk Factors. The above description of risk factors is not exhaustive. Other risk factors are described elsewhere herein as well as in other reports and documents that we file with or furnish to the SEC. Other factors that could also cause results to differ from our expectations may not be described in any such report or document. Each of these factors could by itself, or together with one or more other factors, adversely affect our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 38 Table of Contents 