Item 1A. Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our Business and IndustrySet forth below, elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in other documents we file with the SEC are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K. We note that factors set forth below, individually or in the aggregate, may cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties.The outsourcing trend in the preclinical stages of drug discovery and development may decrease, which could slow our growth.Over the past decade, our businesses have grown as a result of the increase in pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies outsourcing their preclinical research support activities. While many industry analysts expect the outsourcing trend to continue to increase for the next several years (although with different growth rates for different phases of drug discovery and development) decreases in preclinical outsourcing activity may result in a diminished growth rate in the sales of any one or more of our service lines and may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In fact, in 2011 our revenues for our PCS segment declined 6.3% from 2010, our 2010 PCS revenues declined 8.8% from 2009, and 2009 revenues declined 19.5% from 2008. For additional discussion of the factors that we believe have recently been influencing outsourcing demand from our clients, please see the section entitled “Our Strategy” included elsewhere in the Form 10-K. Furthermore, our client contracts are generally terminable on little or no notice. Termination of a large contract or multiple contracts could adversely affect our sales and profitability. Our operations and financial results could be significantly affected by these risks.A reduction in research and development budgets at pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies may adversely affect our business.Our clients include researchers at pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Our ability to continue to grow and win new business is dependent in large part upon the ability and willingness of the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries to continue to spend on molecules in the preclinical phase of research and development and to outsource the products and 13Table of Contentsservices we provide. Fluctuations in the expenditure amounts in each phase of the research and development budgets of these researchers and their organizations could have a significant effect on the demand for our products and services. Research and development budgets fluctuate due to changes in available resources, mergers of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, spending priorities (including available resources of our biotechnology clients, particularly those that are cash-negative, who may be highly focused on rationing their liquid assets in a challenging funding environment), general economic conditions and institutional budgetary policies. Our business could be adversely affected by any significant decrease in drug research and development expenditures by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as by academic institutions, government laboratories or private foundations. In particular, studies in recent years have indicated that a majority of academic researchers are anticipating reductions in their budgets. Similarly, economic factors and industry trends that affect our clients in these industries, including funding for biotechnology companies, which have suffered during the recent economic downturn, also affect their research and development budgets and, consequentially, our business as well. The economic downturn has also negatively affected us to the extent that the research and development spending by our pharmaceutical clients has been directed towards their later-stage products rather than early-stage studies as they reprioritize pipelines (focusing on the back-end of their pipelines in the near-term) and moderate their spending per drug candidate. Furthermore, our clients (particularly larger biopharmaceutical companies) continue to search for ways to maximize the return on their investments with a focus on leaner research and development costs per drug candidate. For additional discussion of the factors that we believe have recently been influencing research and development budgets at our clients, please see the sections entitled “Our Strategy” and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included elsewhere in the Form 10-K. A reduction or delay in government funding of research and development may adversely affect our business.A portion of net sales in our RMS segment is derived from clients at academic institutions and research laboratories whose funding is partially dependent on both the level and timing of funding from government sources, such as the U.S. National Institutes of Health (NIH) and similar domestic and international agencies, which can be difficult to forecast. Government funding of research and development is subject to the political process, which is inherently fluid and unpredictable. Our sales may be adversely affected if our clients delay purchases as a result of uncertainties surrounding the approval of government budget proposals. Also, government proposals to reduce or eliminate budgetary deficits have sometimes included reduced allocations to the NIH and other government agencies that fund research and development activities. Other programs, such as homeland security or defense, or general efforts to reduce the federal budget deficit could be viewed by the U.S. government as a higher priority. These budgetary pressures may result in reduced allocations in the future to government agencies that fund research and development activities. Although the Obama administration's stimulus packages in 2009 and 2010 included increases in NIH funding, NIH funding had otherwise remained fairly flat in recent years (including into 2012). A reduction in government funding for the NIH or other government research agencies could adversely affect our business and our financial results. Also, there is no guarantee that NIH funding will be directed towards projects and studies that require use of our products and services.Changes in government regulation or in practices relating to the pharmaceutical or biotechnology industries, including potential health care reform, could decrease the need for the services we provide.Governmental agencies throughout the world, but particularly in the U.S., strictly regulate the drug development process. Our business involves helping pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, among others, navigate the regulatory drug approval process. Accordingly, many regulations, and often new regulations, are expected to result in higher regulatory standards and often additional revenues for companies that service these industries. However, some changes in regulations, such as a relaxation in regulatory requirements or the introduction of simplified drug approval procedures, or an increase in regulatory requirements that we have difficulty satisfying or that make our services less competitive, could eliminate or substantially reduce the demand for our services. In addition, if regulatory authorities were to mandate a significant reduction in safety assessment procedures which utilize laboratory animals (as has been advocated by certain groups), certain segments of our business could be materially adversely affected.In March 2010, the U.S. Congress enacted health care reform legislation intended over time to expand health insurance coverage and impose health industry cost containment measures. In November 2011, the U.S. Supreme Court decided to review the constitutionality of this legislation and agreed to hear oral arguments in March 2012. If this legislation, or parts of it, is found to be constitutional, the legislation as enacted and implemented may significantly impact the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. In addition, the U.S. Congress, various state legislatures and European and Asian governments may consider various types of health care reform in order to control growing health care costs. We are presently uncertain as to the effects of the recently enacted legislation on our business and are unable to predict what legislative proposals will be adopted in the future, if any. Implementation of health care reform legislation may have certain benefits but also may contain costs that could limit 14Table of Contentsthe profits that can be made from the development of new drugs. This could adversely affect research and development expenditures by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, which could in turn decrease the business opportunities available to us both in the U.S. and abroad. In addition, new laws or regulations may create a risk of liability, increase our costs or limit our service offerings. Furthermore, if health insurers were to change their practices with respect to reimbursements for pharmaceutical products, our clients may spend less, or reduce their growth in spending on research and development.Any failure by us to comply with applicable regulations and related guidance could harm our reputation and operating results, and compliance with new regulations and guidance may result in additional costs. Any failure on our part to comply with applicable regulations could result in the termination of ongoing research or the disqualification of data for submission to regulatory authorities. This could harm our reputation, our prospects for future work and our operating results. For example, the issuance of a notice of observations or a warning from the FDA based on a finding of a material violation by us of good laboratory practice or current good manufacturing practice requirements could materially and adversely affect us. In recent years, the FDA has significantly increased the number of warning letters regarding drug products. Typically, such letters (and the underlying accountability) are directed to the drug sponsor, but in recent years the FDA has provided such letters to a small number of other contract research organizations (CRO). If our operations are found to violate any applicable law or other governmental regulations, we might be subject to civil and criminal penalties, damages and fines. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our management's attention from the operation of our business and damage our reputation.In addition, regulations and guidance worldwide concerning the production and use of laboratory animals for research purposes continues to be updated. Notably, there has been a recent updating and adoption of new guidance in Europe that will be implemented over a period of several years on a country-by-country basis. Because of the complexities of the formal adoption process, the finalization and implementation of this guidance will likely take three or more years, but is likely to be fully implemented by 2016. Some of the new guidance will require additional operating and capital expenses that will impact not only us and our industry competitors but clients in the biomedical research community, who not only will bear the costs of these changes in the pricing of goods and services, but will also need to make similar changes in their own operations. Similarly, guidance has been and continues to be developed for other areas that impact the biomedical research community on both a national and international basis, including transportation, euthanasia guidance, and import and export requirements of biological materials, health monitoring requirements and the use of disinfectants. In the U.S., guidance used by the NIH and by certain oversight agencies for the care and use of laboratory animals was revised in 2010 and will be implemented over a three year period which began in 2011. Furthermore, we have had to begin implementation of some components of this new guidance in 2011 in order to avoid additional costs in certain long-term contracts initiated or bid upon in 2011. Conforming to these new guidelines will likely cause us increased costs attributable to upgrading of existing or addition of new facilities, the need to add personnel to address new processes, as well as increased administrative burden.Our standard client agreements contain customer‑determined termination and service reduction provisions, which may result in less contract revenue than we anticipate. Generally, our agreements with our clients provide that the clients can terminate the agreements or reduce the scope of services under the agreements with little or no notice. Clients may elect to terminate their agreements with us for various reasons, including:•the products being tested fail to satisfy safety requirements;•unexpected or undesired study results;•production problems resulting in shortages of the drug being tested;•the client's decision to forego or terminate a particular study;•the loss of funding for the particular research study; or•general convenience/client preference.If a client terminates a contract with us, we are entitled under the terms of the contract to receive revenue earned to date as well as certain other costs and, in some cases, penalties. Cancellation of a large contract or proximate cancellation of multiple 15Table of Contentscontracts could materially adversely affect our business and, therefore, may adversely affect our operating results.Many of our contracts are fixed price and may be delayed or terminated or reduced in scope for reasons beyond our control, or we may under‑price or overrun cost estimates with these contracts, potentially resulting in financial losses. Many of our contracts provide for services on a fixed price or fee-for-service with a cap basis and, accordingly, we bear the financial risk if we initially under-price our contracts or otherwise overrun our cost estimates. In addition, these contracts may be terminated or reduced in scope either immediately or upon notice. Cancellations may occur for a variety of reasons, and often at the discretion of the client. The loss, reduction in scope or delay of a large contract or the loss or delay of multiple contracts could materially adversely affect our business, although our contracts frequently entitle us to receive the costs of winding down the terminated projects, as well as all fees earned by us up to the time of termination. Some contracts also entitle us to a predetermined termination fee and irrevocably committed costs/expenses.Contaminations in our animal populations can damage our inventory, harm our reputation for contaminant-free production, result in decreased sales and cause us to incur additional costs. Our research models and fertile chicken eggs must be free of certain infectious agents such as certain viruses and bacteria because the presence of these contaminants can distort or compromise the quality of research results and could adversely impact human or animal health. The presence of these infectious agents in our animal production facilities and certain service operations could disrupt our contaminant-free research model and fertile egg production as well as our animal services businesses including GEMS, harm our reputation for contaminant-free production and result in decreased sales.Contaminations typically require cleaning up, renovating, disinfecting, retesting and restarting production or services. Such clean-ups result in inventory loss, clean-up and start-up costs, and reduced sales as a result of lost client orders and credits for prior shipments. In addition to microbiological contaminations, the potential for genetic mix-ups or mismatings also exists and may require the restarting of the applicable colonies. While this does not require the complete clean-up, renovation and disinfection of the barrier room, it would likely result in inventory loss, additional start-up costs and possibly reduced sales. Contaminations also expose us to risks that clients will request compensation for damages in excess of our contractual indemnification requirements. There also exists a risk that contaminations from models that we produce may affect our client's facilities, with similar impact to them. In some cases, we may produce or import animals carrying infectious agents capable of causing disease in humans; and in the case of such a contamination or undiagnosed infection, there could be a possible risk of human exposure and infection.We are also subject to similar contamination risks with respect to our large research models. While often we own these models, they may be maintained on our behalf at a site operated by the original provider. Accordingly, risk of contamination may be outside of our control, and we depend on the practices and protocols of third parties to ensure a contamination-free environment. Furthermore, while we often negotiate for contractual risk indemnification, we may be exposed in the event of such contaminations if the third party does not fulfill its indemnification obligation or is unable to as a result of insolvency or other impediments.All such contaminations described above are unanticipated and difficult to predict and could adversely impact our financial results. Many of our operations are comprised of complex mechanical systems which are subject to periodic failure, including aging fatigue. Such failures are unpredictable, and while we have made significant capital expenditures designed to strengthen our biosecurity, improve our operating procedures to protect against such contaminations, and replace impaired systems and equipment in advance of such events, failures and/or contaminations may still occur.Impairment of goodwill may adversely impact future results of operations. We have intangible assets, including goodwill and other identifiable and indefinite-lived acquired intangibles on our balance sheet due to our acquisitions of businesses. The initial identification and valuation of these intangible assets and the determination of the estimated useful lives at the time of acquisition involve use of management judgments and estimates. These estimates are based on, among other factors, input from accredited valuation consultants, reviews of projected future income cash flows and statutory regulations. The use of alternative estimates and assumptions might have increased or decreased the estimated fair value of our goodwill and other intangible assets that could potentially result in a different impact to our results of operations.We perform a test for goodwill impairment annually and whenever events or circumstances make it likely the fair value of a reporting unit has fallen below its carrying amount to determine if impairment exists. The goodwill impairment analysis is a two-step process. The first step is used to identify potential impairment and involves comparing each reporting 16Table of Contentsunit's estimated fair value to its carrying value, including goodwill. Fair value is determined by using a weighted combination of a market based approach and an income approach, as this combination is deemed to be the most indicative of our fair value in an orderly transaction between market participants. Under the market-based approach, we utilize information about our Company as well as publicly available industry information to determine earnings multiples and sales multiples that are used to value our reporting units. Under the income approach, we determine fair value based on the estimated future cash flows of each reporting unit, discounted by an estimated weighted-average cost of capital which reflects the overall level of inherent risk of the reporting unit and the rate of return an outside investor would expect to earn. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit is judgmental in nature and requires the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including revenue growth rates, profit margin percentages, discount rates, perpetuity growth rates, future capital expenditures and future market conditions, among others. Our projections are based on an internal strategic review. Key assumptions, strategies, opportunities and risks from this strategic review along with a market evaluation are the basis for our assessment. If the estimated fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, goodwill is not considered to be impaired. However, if the carrying value exceeds estimated fair value, there is an indication of potential impairment and the second step is performed to measure the amount of impairment.The second step of the goodwill impairment process involves the calculation of an implied fair value of goodwill for each reporting unit for which step one indicated impairment. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined similar to how goodwill is calculated in a business combination, by measuring the excess of the estimated fair value of the reporting unit as calculated in step one, over the estimated fair values of the individual assets, liabilities and identifiable intangibles as if the reporting unit was being acquired in a business combination. If the carrying value of goodwill assigned to a reporting unit exceeds the implied fair value of the goodwill, an impairment charge is recorded for the excess. In determining the fair value of assets, we utilize appraisals for the fair value of property and equipment and valuations of certain intangible assets, including client relationships.Our annual goodwill impairment assessment has historically been completed at the beginning of the fourth quarter. Based on our assessment (step one) for 2011, the fair value of our business units exceed their carrying value and therefore our goodwill was not impaired.Goodwill will not be amortized, but will be reviewed for impairment at least annually. The results of this year's impairment test are as of a point in time. If the future growth and operating results of our business are not as strong as anticipated and/or our market capitalization declines, this could impact the assumptions used in calculating the fair value in subsequent years. To the extent goodwill is impaired, its carrying value will be written down to its implied fair value and a charge will be made to our earnings. Such an impairment charge could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. As of December 31, 2011, we had recorded goodwill and other intangibles of $291.0 million in the consolidated balance sheet.Our business is subject to risks relating to operating internationally. A significant part of our net sales is derived from operations outside the U.S. Our international revenues, which include revenues from our non-U.S. subsidiaries, have represented approximately one-half of our total net sales in recent years. We expect that international revenues will continue to account for a significant percentage of our revenues for the foreseeable future. There are a number of risks associated with our international business, including:•foreign currencies we receive for sales and in which we record expenses outside the U.S. could be subject to unfavorable exchange rates with the U.S. dollar and reduce the amount of revenue and cash flow (and increase the amount of expenses) that we recognize and cause fluctuations in reported financial results;•certain contracts, particularly in Canada, are frequently denominated in currencies other than the currency in which we incur expenses related to those contracts and where expenses are incurred in currencies other than those in which contracts are priced, fluctuations in the relative value of those currencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations;•general economic and political conditions in the markets in which we operate;•potential international conflicts, including terrorist acts;•potential trade restrictions, exchange controls and legal restrictions on the repatriation of funds into the U.S.;•difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations, including risks of violations of local laws or anti-bribery laws such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act, and the OECD 17Table of ContentsConvention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions;•unexpected changes in regulatory requirements;•the difficulties of compliance with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations;•unfavorable labor regulations in foreign jurisdictions;•potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of US and foreign tax laws;• exposure to business disruption or property damage due to geographically unique natural disasters; •longer accounts receivable cycles in certain foreign countries; and•import and export licensing requirements.Negative attention from special interest groups may impair our business. The products and services which we provide our clients are essential to the drug discovery and development process, and are almost universally mandated by law. Notwithstanding, certain special interest groups categorically object to the use of animals for valid research purposes. Historically, our core research model activities with rats, mice and other rodents have not been the subject of significant animal rights media attention. However, research activities with animals have been the subject of adverse attention, including shareholder proposals, impacting the industry. This has included demonstrations near facilities operated by us, as well as a shareholder proposal we received for our 2012 Annual Meeting. Any negative attention, threats or acts of vandalism directed against our animal research activities in the future could impair our ability to operate our business efficiently.Several of our product and service offerings are dependent on a limited source of supply, which if interrupted could adversely affect our business. We depend on a limited international source of supply of large research models required in our product and service offerings. Disruptions to their continued supply may arise from health problems, export or import laws/restrictions or embargoes, international trade regulations, foreign government or economic instability, severe weather conditions, increased competition amongst suppliers for models, disruptions to the air travel system or other normal-course or unanticipated events. Any disruption of supply could harm our business if we cannot remove the disruption or are unable to secure an alternative or secondary supply source on comparable commercial terms.The drug discovery and development services industry is highly competitive.The drug discovery and development services industry is highly competitive. We often compete for business not only with other contract research organizations (CRO), but also with internal discovery and development departments within our larger clients, who may have greater resources than ours. We also compete with universities and teaching hospitals for our services. We compete on a variety of factors, including:•reputation for on-time quality performance;•reputation for regulatory compliance;•expertise and experience in multiple specialized areas;•scope and breadth of service and product offerings across the drug discovery and development spectrum;•ability to provide flexible and customized solutions to support our clients' drug discovery and development needs;•broad geographic availability (with consistent quality);•price/value;•technological expertise and efficient drug development processes;18Table of Contents•quality of facilities;•financial stability;•size; and•ability to acquire, process, analyze and report data in an accurate manner.If we do not compete successfully, our business will suffer. Increased competition might lead to price and other concessions that might adversely affect our operating results. The drug discovery and development services industry has continued to see a trend towards consolidation, particularly among the biotechnology companies, who are targets for each other and for larger pharmaceutical companies (although recent trends since 2008 also demonstrated increased merger activity between larger pharmaceutical companies themselves). If this trend continues, it is likely to produce more competition among the larger companies and CROs generally, with respect to both clients and acquisition candidates. In addition, while there are substantial barriers to entry for large, global competitors with broad-based services, small, specialized entities considering entering the CRO industry will continue to find lower barriers to entry, and private equity firms may determine that there are opportunities to acquire and consolidate these companies, thus further increasing possible competition. Furthermore, between 2006 and 2008, both Charles River and our competitors, particularly in the preclinical services area, invested significantly in capital projects to increase capacity. An ongoing challenge for all participants is balancing existing (and sometimes excess) capacity and market demand. Where capacity has been increased too much, pressure to lower prices or to take on lower-margin studies and projects can occur. More generally, our competitors or others might develop technologies, services or products that are more effective or commercially attractive than our current or future technologies, services or products, or that render our technologies, services or products less competitive or obsolete. If competitors introduce superior technologies, services or products and we cannot make enhancements to ours to remain competitive, our competitive position, and in turn our business, revenue and financial condition, would be materially and adversely affected. In the aggregate, these competitive pressures may affect the attractiveness of our technologies, services or products and could adversely affect our financial results.Potential Changes in U.S. Tax Law. In its budget submission to Congress in February 2010, and reiterated in the administration's 2012 and 2013 budget proposals, the Obama administration proposed changes to the manner in which the U.S. would tax the international income of U.S.-based companies. The proposed changes include, among others, limiting the ability of U.S. corporations to deduct interest expense allocated and apportioned to offshore earnings and modifying the foreign tax credit rules. Additionally, on October 26, 2011, House Ways and Means committee Chairman Camp released a draft tax reform proposal that includes a reduction in the corporate statutory tax rate, a move to a territorial tax system which allows a partial exemption from taxation for dividends received from foreign corporations and gains recognized on the sale of shares in foreign corporations, as well as certain anti-base erosion and thin capitalization rules. While it is uncertain how the U.S. Congress may address the issue of tax reform, it continues to be a topic of discussion and debate. Although the scope of the proposed changes remains unclear and the likelihood of enactment is uncertain, it is possible that these or other changes in the U.S. tax laws could increase our effective tax rate which would affect our profitability.We could be adversely affected by tax law changes in Canada and the United Kingdom. We have substantial operations in Canada and the United Kingdom which currently benefit from favorable corporate tax arrangements. We receive substantial tax credits in Canada from both the Canadian federal and Quebec governments and benefits from enhanced deductions and accelerated tax depreciation allowances in the U.K. Any reduction in the availability or amount of these tax credits or deductions due to tax law changes or outcomes of tax controversies would likely have a material adverse effect on our profits, cash flow and our effective tax rate.Contract research services create a risk of liability. As a contract research organization, we face a range of potential liabilities which may include:•errors or omissions in reporting of study detail in preclinical studies that may lead to inaccurate reports, which may undermine the usefulness of a study or data from the study, or which may potentially advance studies absent the necessary support or inhibit studies from proceeding to the next level of testing;•risks associated with our possible failure to properly care for our clients' property, such as research models and samples, study compounds, records, work in progress, other archived materials, or goods and materials in transit, 19Table of Contentswhile in our possession;•risks that models in our breeding facilities or in facilities that we manage may be infected with diseases that may be harmful and even lethal to themselves or humans despite preventive measures contained in our policies for the quarantine and handling of imported animals; and•risks that we may have errors and omissions related to our products designed to conduct lot release testing of medical devices and injectable drugs (primarily through our In Vitro business) or in the testing of biologics and other services performed by our biopharmaceutical services business, which could result in us or our clients failing to identify unsafe or contaminated materials.We attempt to mitigate these risks through a variety of methods. Nonetheless, it is impossible to completely eradicate such risks.In our RMS business, we mitigate these risks to the best of our abilities through our regimen of animal testing, quarantine, and veterinary staff vigilance, through which we seek to control the exposure of animal related disease or infections.In our PCS business, we attempt to reduce these risks by contract provisions entitling us to be indemnified or entitling us to a limitation of liability, insurance maintained by our clients and by us, and various regulatory requirements we must follow in connection with our business.In both our RMS and PCS businesses, contractual risk transfer indemnifications generally do not protect us against liability arising from certain of our own actions, such as negligence or misconduct. We could be materially and adversely affected if we were required to pay damages or bear the costs of defending any claim which is not covered by a contractual indemnification provision or in the event that a party who must indemnify us does not fulfill its indemnification obligations or which is beyond the level of insurance coverage. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we or a party required to indemnify us will be able to maintain such insurance coverage on terms acceptable to us.New technologies may be developed, validated and increasingly used in biomedical research that could reduce demand for some of our products and services. For many years, groups within the scientific and research communities have attempted to develop models, methods and systems that would replace or supplement the use of living animals as test subjects in biomedical research. Some companies have developed techniques in these areas that may have scientific merit. In addition, technological improvements to existing or new processes, such as imaging technology, could result in a refinement in the number of animal research models necessary to conduct the required research. It is our strategy to participate in some fashion with any non-animal test method or other method that reduces the need for animal research models as it becomes validated as a research model alternative or adjunct in our markets. However, we generally may not be successful in commercializing these methods if developed, and sales or profits from these methods may not offset reduced sales or profits from research models. Alternative research methods could decrease the need for research models, and we may not be able to develop new products effectively or in a timely manner to replace any lost sales. In addition, other companies or entities may develop research models with characteristics different than the ones that we produce, and which may be viewed as more desirable by our clients.Upgrading and integrating our business systems could result in implementation issues and business disruptions.In 2010 we completed the initial implementation of a project to replace many of our numerous legacy business systems at our different sites globally with an enterprise wide, integrated enterprise resource planning (ERP) system. The first stages, which included all of our U.S. sites as well as our RMS site in Canada, and our PCS sites in Montreal and Edinburgh, went live in 2010. We are now enhancing the value of the system's reporting capabilities. The expansion of the system to other international locations may occur at a future date based on value to the business. In general, the process of planning and preparing for these types of integrated, wide-scale implementations is extremely complex and we are required to address a number of challenges including data conversion, system cutover and user training. Problems in any of these areas could cause operational problems during implementation including delayed shipments, missed sales, billing and accounting errors and other operational issues. There have been numerous, well-publicized instances of companies experiencing difficulties with the implementation of ERP systems which resulted in negative business consequences.The drug discovery and development industry has a history of patent and other intellectual property litigation, and we might be involved in costly intellectual property lawsuits. 20Table of ContentsThe drug discovery and development industry has a history of patent and other intellectual property litigation and these lawsuits will likely continue. Accordingly, we face potential patent infringement suits by companies that have patents for similar products and methods used in business or other suits alleging infringement of their intellectual property rights. Legal proceedings relating to intellectual property could be expensive, take significant time and divert management's attention from other business concerns, whether we win or lose. If we do not prevail in an infringement lawsuit brought against us, we might have to pay substantial damages, including treble damages, and we could be required to stop the infringing activity or obtain a license to use technology on unfavorable terms.We may not be able to successfully develop and market new services and products. We may seek to develop and market new services and products that complement or expand our existing business or service offerings. If we are unable to develop new services and products and/or create demand for those newly developed services and products, our future business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows could be adversely affected.Our debt level could adversely affect our business and growth prospects. At December 31, 2011, we had approximately $739 million of debt. This debt could have significant adverse effects on our business, including making it more difficult for us to obtain additional financing on favorable terms; requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to the repayment of debt and the interest on this debt; limiting our ability to capitalize on significant business opportunities; and making us more vulnerable to rising interest rates. For additional information regarding our debt, please see Note 5 included in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements elsewhere in this Form 10-K.If we are not successful in selecting and integrating the businesses and technologies we acquire, or in managing our current and future divestitures, our business may suffer. During the past decade, we have expanded our business through numerous acquisitions. We plan to continue to acquire businesses and technologies and form strategic alliances. However, businesses and technologies may not be available on terms and conditions we find acceptable. We risk spending time and money investigating and negotiating with potential acquisition or alliance partners, but not completing transactions.Even if completed, acquisitions and alliances involve numerous risks which may include:•difficulties and expenses incurred in assimilating and integrating operations, services, products or technologies;•challenges with developing and operating new businesses, including those which are materially different from our existing businesses and which may require the development or acquisition of new internal capabilities and expertise;•diversion of management's attention from other business concerns;•potential losses resulting from undiscovered liabilities of acquired companies that are not covered by the indemnification we may obtain from the seller;•acquisitions could be dilutive to earnings, or in the event of acquisitions made through the issuance of our common stock to the shareholders of the acquired company, dilutive to the percentage of ownership of our existing stockholders;•loss of key employees;•risks of not being able to overcome differences in foreign business practices, customs and importation regulations, language and other cultural barriers in connection with the acquisition of foreign companies;•risks that disagreements or disputes with prior owners of an acquired business, technology, service or product may result in litigation expenses and distribution of our management's attention;•the presence or absence of adequate internal controls and/or significant fraud in the financial systems of acquired companies; and21Table of Contents•difficulties in achieving business and financial success.In the event that an acquired business or technology or an alliance does not meet our expectations, our results of operations may be adversely affected.Some of the same risks exist when we decide to sell a business, site, or product line. In addition, divestitures could involve additional risks, including the following:•difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel; and•the need to agree to retain or assume certain current or future liabilities in order to complete the divestiture.We continually evaluate the performance and strategic fit of our businesses. These and any divestitures may result in significant write-offs, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies at acceptable prices and terms and in a timely manner. We may not be successful in managing these or any other significant risks that we encounter in divesting a business, site or product line, and as a result, we may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of the divestiture.We could experience a breach of the confidentiality of the information we hold or of the security of our computer systems. We operate large and complex computer systems that contain significant amounts of client data. As a routine element of our business, we collect, analyze and retain substantial amounts of data pertaining to the preclinical studies we conduct for our clients. Unauthorized third parties could attempt to gain entry to such computer systems for the purpose of stealing data or disrupting the systems. We believe that we have taken adequate measures to protect them from intrusion, and we continue to improve and enhance our systems in this regard, but in the event that our efforts are unsuccessful we could suffer significant harm. Our contracts with our clients typically contain provisions that require us to keep confidential the information generated from these studies. In the event the confidentiality of such information was compromised, we could suffer significant harm.We depend on key personnel and may not be able to retain these employees or recruit additional qualified personnel, which would harm our business. Our success depends to a significant extent on the continued services of our senior management and other members of management. James C. Foster, our Chief Executive Officer since 1992 and Chairman since 2000, has held various positions with us for 35 years. We have no employment agreement with Mr. Foster or other members of our non-European based senior management. If Mr. Foster or other members of senior management do not continue in their present positions, our business may suffer.Because of the specialized scientific nature of our business, we are highly dependent upon attracting and retaining qualified scientific, technical and managerial personnel. While we have a strong record of employee retention, there is still significant competition for qualified personnel in the veterinary, pharmaceutical and biotechnology fields. Therefore, we may not be able to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business. The loss of the services of existing personnel, as well as the failure to recruit additional key scientific, technical and managerial personnel in a timely manner, could harm our business. Our quarterly operating results may vary, which could negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Our results of operations in any quarter may vary from quarter to quarter and are influenced by such factors as:•changes in the general global economy;•the number and scope of ongoing client engagements;•the commencement, postponement, delay, progress, completion or cancellation of client contracts in the quarter;•changes in the mix of our products and services;•the extent of cost overruns;22Table of Contents•holiday buying patterns of our clients;•budget cycles of our clients;•the timing and charges associated with completed acquisitions and other events;•the occasional extra “53rd week” that we recognize in a fiscal year (and 4th fiscal quarter thereof) due to our fiscal year ending on the last Saturday in December; and•exchange rate fluctuations.We believe that operating results for any particular quarter are not necessarily a meaningful indication of future results. Nonetheless, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results could negatively affect the market price of our common stock.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsThere are no unresolved comments to be reported in response to Item 1B.