Item 1A Risk Factors 11 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 22 Item 2 Properties 22 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 22 Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 22 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters 22 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 24 Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 26 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 34 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 35 Item 9 Changes In and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 55 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 55 Item 9B Other Information 55 PART III Item 10 Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant 55 Item 11 Executive Compensation 55 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 55 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions 55 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 55 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 56 Signatures 58 EXHIBIT 10.16 EXHIBIT 23.1 EXHIBIT 31.1 EXHIBIT 31.2 EXHIBIT 32.1 EXHIBIT 32.2 2 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business. This report contains forward-looking statements that involve many risks and uncertainties. These statements relate to future events and our future performance that are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the industry in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terms such as “would,” “could,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “expect,” “intend,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “predict,” “potential,” “targets,” “seek,” or “continue,” the negative of these terms or other variations of such terms. In addition, any statements that refer to projections of our future financial performance, our anticipated growth and trends in our business and other characterizations of future events or circumstances, are forward-looking statements. These statements are only predictions based upon assumptions made that are believed to be reasonable at the time, and are subject to risk and uncertainties. Therefore, actual events or results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statement. In evaluating these statements, you should specifically consider the risks described under Item 1A “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this report. These factors may cause our actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking statements. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Overview Celebrate Express is a leading provider of celebration products serving families with young children, via the Internet and catalogs. We currently operate two brands, Birthday Express and Costume Express, which respectively offer high-quality children’s party products and children’s costumes and accessories. In the beginning of fiscal 2007, we started the process of winding down the operations of our Storybook Heirlooms brand, which offered girls’ special occasion and specialty apparel. This wind down was completed in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007. Our marketing strategy utilizes our branded website, complemented by our catalogs, to offer products as completely coordinated assortments. We support our customer’s purchasing experience with detailed product information, knowledgeable event planning advice and responsive customer service. Our goal is to help busy parents celebrate the special moments in their children’s lives. Our brands were built around the concept of offering a complete accessorized product assortment for the celebration needs of families with young children. We began with our Birthday Express brand, which offers customers over 150 children’s party themes. Each party theme encompasses the products and information necessary to help busy parents create a memorable birthday celebration. Our Costume Express brand offers an assortment of high-quality children’s costumes for Halloween and a variety of dress-up occasions. Offering multiple brands has allowed us to leverage our product development expertise, sourcing capabilities, inventory management skills and customer database to increase our revenue. Our business model offers proprietary products, which serve to differentiate us from competitors, and in some cases, provide a margin advantage relative to our other products, as well as third-party products, which allow us to capitalize on market trends. We offer a broad assortment of products in one convenient location, eliminating time-consuming steps required to purchase products at multiple store locations. Our centralized inventory management maximizes product availability and allows us to customize product packages. Additionally, our ability to design, manufacture or directly source many of our products allows us to develop creative proprietary products and quickly react to consumer trends. We believe that the combination of these factors creates a more appealing shopping experience than traditional retail stores. In fiscal 2007, we generated $85.2 million in net sales, a decrease of 2.0% from $87.0 million in fiscal 2006. This decline in net sales was due primarily to the wind-down of our Storybook Heirlooms brand, which had a net sales decrease of $6.9 million from fiscal 2006 to fiscal 2007. In fiscal 2007, our Birthday Express brand accounted for approximately 82% of our revenue and our website represented our fastest growing sales channel comprising approximately 76% of net sales. In the same period, our net sales per order was $77.87 and more than 45% of our sales came from repeat customers. 3 Table of Contents Celebrate Express, Inc. was incorporated in Washington in June 1994 under the name “Birthday Express, Inc.” and changed its name to “Birthday Express.com, Inc.” in July 1999 and then to “Celebrate Express.com, Inc.” in January 2000. We completed our initial public offering in October 2004, and our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Global Market System under the symbol “BDAY.” Our Approach We believe our direct-to-consumer model, utilizing the Internet and catalogs, offers a more compelling shopping experience by providing a comprehensive assortment of products and accessories, supported by helpful information and advice. We also believe our model allows us to offer a more efficient and complete experience, leading to increased customer loyalty and repeat purchases. In recent years, we have added brands and product categories to augment our business where we feel we can improve a customer’s overall experience and capture an increasing share of their discretionary spending. Key attributes of our approach include: Broad Merchandising Assortment We offer a broad mix of proprietary and third-party products. Our proprietary products are internally designed and are either manufactured by us, or manufactured exclusively for us. These proprietary products serve to differentiate us from competitors, create product continuity from year to year and provide an opportunity for increased margins relative to our other products. In addition, we purchase products from third-party suppliers in order to add popular products and styles to our offerings. For example, we believe that our Birthday Express party assortment is larger and more diverse than those typically found in a traditional retail store. We offer more than 150 themes, over 50 of which are exclusive or proprietary designs. Each of our proprietary and third-party themes has an extensive selection of as many as 40 coordinated party products. We have implemented a similar merchandising strategy in our Costume Express brand by offering customers complete proprietary and third-party ensembles. Our Costume Express brand offers a broad assortment of over 500 quality costumes, most of which are available with coordinated accessories. For example, customers shopping for a pirate costume can also purchase an earring, eye patch, three-corner hat, hook, sword, stuffed parrot and telescope. Comprehensive Product Information We offer extensive product information and support to provide a more personalized and informed purchasing experience. Detailed Online Information. Our branded website offers extensive product information and advice. For example, each themed Birthday Express product web page presents a variety of products and suggestions for additional theme-related items such as personalized banners, party activities and favors. Each web page also includes a custom party-planning guide offering theme-specific tips, such as games, recipes, themed cake suggestions, as well as product reviews from customers. Knowledgeable Online and Phone Sales Staff. We conduct extensive training, monitoring and evaluation to ensure that our customer support team exhibits a consistently high level of product knowledge and professionalism across all our brands. Our customer support team for Birthday Express consists of trained party planners who are available to process orders, help with age-appropriate theme and activity selection and offer party planning ideas and advice. We offer an online chat feature on every product web page that allows customers to access real-time answers from trained planners. Our Costume Express brand is supported by the same customer support representatives who are able to offer customers detailed accessory, sizing, fabric content and care information. We believe that the information and advice provided by our website and customer support team not only saves our customers time, but also gives them confidence in their purchases and in the planning of their celebration. We also believe that this contributes to increased customer loyalty and repeat purchases over time. 4 Table of Contents Convenient Shopping Environment By offering a broad selection of products, advice and information in one convenient location, we seek to reduce our customers’ shopping time and stress. We believe consumers cannot find as extensive a selection of coordinating products at traditional retailers. We believe that in order to create a celebration with the same level of accessorization, the customer would have to travel to multiple locations and spend a considerable amount of time shopping for items, as well as researching the celebratory event details. In addition to one-stop-shopping, our website and catalogs provide an opportunity for children to browse our products and participate in the selection process, saving parents the inconvenience of taking their children to multiple stores. Our online store is open 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Product Availability and Customization We are not limited by the same shelf space and store layout constraints as a traditional retailer, and as a result, we are able to offer a greater variety of products. We manage our inventory from a single centralized location. We believe our centralized inventory enables us to provide a large number of products and related accessories while maintaining higher product in-stock rates, thereby improving a customer’s shopping experience. For example, in our Birthday Express brand we currently offer over 150 themes, with as many as 40 accessories per theme. We offer our products individually and in themed party packages from “Classic” to “Ultimate,” and we customize each package. We believe that giving customers the freedom to customize orders saves the customer money, reduces waste and contributes to a more satisfying shopping experience. Rapid Time to Market We believe our ability to quickly respond to changing consumer demand with new products, allows us to improve our customers’ overall shopping experience. We carefully analyze our customers’ buying patterns and we use these results to guide our merchandising strategy. Our online sales channel allows us the flexibility to bring products to market rapidly and to continually refine our merchandising assortment based on demand. For example, in our Birthday Express brand, we can go from concept to launch of a new theme in less than eight weeks or replenish existing paper goods in as little as 48 hours. Our internal design, product development, manufacturing and sourcing capabilities allow us to produce small quantities of new products, test them and, if appropriate, quickly expand the product assortment to better meet the needs of our customers. Our Growth Strategy Our goal is to become the leading multi-brand destination for celebration products, merchandised as complete solutions, serving families with young children. Key elements of our strategy include: Build Brand Awareness and Expand Our Customer Base We plan to continue to use a variety of online and print marketing strategies to target families with young children. We drive traffic to our website and customer support center primarily through the use of catalogs, outbound email, search marketing and web-based affiliate programs. By increasing consumer awareness, we are making our branded website a popular destination on the Internet. We also believe that word of mouth advertising is an important source of new customer acquisition and that many of our customers were introduced to our brands while attending celebrations featuring our products. Our direct marketing model utilizing our website and branded catalogs allows us to cost-effectively build our brand awareness and expand our customer database. In our fiscal year ended May 31, 2007, we added approximately 574,000 new customers to our database, an increase of 3% over the 560,000 new customers added during our fiscal year ended May 31, 2006. As of May 31, 2007, our customer database totaled over 3.4 million customers. Continue to Add New Brands We continuously evaluate the potential to develop or acquire new brands in attractive product categories in an effort to better serve our customers. During fiscal 2004, we added the Costume Express brand via internal 5 Table of Contents development. The addition of this brand has allowed us to use our customer database to generate sales and increase order frequency. For our fiscal year ended May 31, 2007, our Costume Express brand accounted for approximately 16% of our net sales. Increase Sales Per Customer We plan to increase our sales per customer by increasing the frequency of purchase. We believe establishing a long-term relationship with our customer is key to driving frequent purchases. By offering new brands, such as Costume Express, we have increased the number of occasions for which our customers can purchase our products. We also employ a number of strategies focused on net sales per order, including offering an expanded assortment of products and accessories. Expand Our Product Offerings We plan to continue to expand our proprietary and third-party offerings within each of our brands. Our product design team is continually creating and sourcing new themes and products to respond to changes in customer tastes. The online nature of our business allows us to cost-efficiently add new products to our overall assortment. Our Brands and Product Offerings We offer our celebration products through the following brands: Birthday Express We launched our Birthday Express brand to provide children’s party solutions utilizing a catalog in June 1994 and a website in April 1996. We currently offer over 150 birthday party themes that include a mix of third-party and proprietary products. Our third-party properties include popular themes such as Disney Princesses, Cars and Thomas the Tank Engine. Our proprietary themes are based on either licenses, such as The DOG, Tony Hawk and LEGO, or internally developed children’s themes such as fire trucks, construction equipment, and horses. Within each theme we offer as many as 40 high-quality, theme-coordinated party products. In addition to the usual paper products for parties, such as plates, cups, napkins, tablecloths and invitations, we provide a broad assortment of proprietary accessories such as piñatas, party hats, activity kits and crafts, costumes, banners and distinctive favor-filled boxes. Our products can be bought individually or in cost-saving “Basic,” “Deluxe” and “Ultimate” packages ranging in price from approximately $21 to $200. Costume Express We tested Costume Express as a separate brand through a website and catalog in Fall 2003 and based on its performance, we rolled out this brand in Fall 2004. Costume Express grew organically out of our costume offerings in our Birthday Express and Storybook Heirlooms brands and now includes over 500 costumes for Halloween and other year-round dress-up occasions. We also offer a variety of add-on accessories that enhance the total costume and allow the customer to choose the completeness of the look. While we carry third-party costumes such as Harry Potter, Pirates of the Caribbean and Spiderman to capture current trends, we also generate roughly 35% of our revenues in Costume Express from our own proprietary designs. Costumes with timeless, broad appeal such as princesses, divas, hippies, witches and mermaids, provide us with a stable product assortment that we can market year after year. Our proprietary costumes use high-quality fabric, design and construction, which distinguishes us from mass merchandisers. Our costumes range in price from approximately $20 for a basic costume to more than $150 for a completely accessorized costume. Storybook Heirlooms We acquired the Storybook Heirlooms brand in April 2001. Due to various challenges with the brand and the girls’ apparel market, we decided to begin an orderly wind-down of our Storybook brand at the beginning of fiscal 2007. The Company continued to operate the brand in fiscal 2007 through sale efforts to sell through the existing inventory, and completed the wind down in the fourth quarter of the current fiscal year. We have re-focused Company resources on our core Birthday Express brand and faster-growing Costume Express brand. 6 Table of Contents Product Development and Sourcing Proprietary products are the focus of our merchandising assortment for each of our brands, producing a majority of our corporate revenue. These products allow us to differentiate our offerings from those of our competition and respond quickly to market trends. They also have typically provided us with better margins and often have more longevity than third-party products and themes. Proprietary products are designed and developed by our in-house staff, including individuals who specialize in graphic art, sculpture, production and sourcing. Additionally, we utilize freelance design resources as needed. Our proprietary products are either manufactured by us or manufactured exclusively for us. We obtain our costumes and non-paper products directly from a diverse network of over 250 manufacturers and distributors throughout North America, Europe and Asia. We believe sourcing our products directly from manufacturers allows us to eliminate traditional supply chain intermediaries and thus more effectively reduce costs, monitor product quality and coordinate selections to match our themed packages. Third-party products are also key to each of our brands because they allow customers to purchase products based on current trends. Our merchandisers gain insight into market trends through their relationships with key suppliers and by traveling to tradeshows to find new products. We are often able to purchase popular products from third-party suppliers at discounts based on our volumes and reorder, as needed, to meet our customers’ demand. In our Birthday Express and Costume Express brands, this strategy allows us to offer current products such as Darth Vader and Dora the Explorer, without incurring the significant financial investment and risk that comes from pursuing such large and visible licenses. In our fiscal year ended May 31, 2007, products supplied by our ten largest suppliers represented 43.0% of our inventory purchases. Marketing and Customer Acquisition Our marketing strategy utilizes both online and print marketing programs to acquire and retain customers. Our integrated in-house team of web developers, graphic artists and copywriters make use of our digital studio to design and create our website and catalogs. By designing and creating our marketing materials in-house, we are able to maintain quality control and shorten production lead-times. Our website and catalogs use photographic themes and detailed product descriptions, and prominently feature our most popular products. Our marketing and merchandising departments work together to determine the placement and presentation of merchandise on our website and in our catalogs. We intend to continue growing our customer base through targeted marketing programs. We continually evaluate our marketing strategies to maximize their effectiveness and return on investment. Online Marketing and Promotion. We utilize numerous online marketing methods to reach our current and potential customers and generate traffic on our website. The most significant programs include: • Email Marketing • Search Marketing • Affiliates Program Offline Marketing and Promotion. Our catalogs remain our primary advertising and marketing vehicle. Our branded catalogs showcase our best-selling party products and costumes and help to generate interest in our broader online offerings. We also occasionally market our products through direct marketing insert programs. Customer Support Offering a high level of customer support is a key part of our strategy. We provide online information resources along with knowledgeable, highly trained support staff in order to retain and expand our customer base. Online Customer Support. Our website organizes our products into easy-to-navigate departments. A customer can shop through two convenient methods: traditional online shopping or via an electronic order form which allows a customer to order specific products that they may have discovered while browsing through our catalog. We offer online help through our “live chat” function on every web page, so customers can easily receive immediate interactive assistance from our trained customer support representatives. Our shopping cart features an 7 Table of Contents easy two-step checkout process. Online support continues after an order is placed, with an email confirmation sent within minutes, and shipment confirmation that enables customers to track their order status. Customer Support Center. Our customer support staff receives extensive training across each brand’s product offering upon joining the organization, followed by monthly hands-on training. This knowledge base allows them to work confidently with the customer to build a complete party package or accessorized outfit. We regularly monitor calls to ensure consistent service levels, and our mentoring program is designed to improve sales skills. We continue to invest in training and technology to ensure that our customer support staff has the necessary tools and knowledge to provide a positive customer shopping experience. Call center staffing is managed with the help of workforce software that allows us to answer over 75% of customer calls on the first ring. When we receive unexpectedly high call volume, customers holding longer than one minute are offered an automatic call-back option in which the system accurately quotes an estimated number of minutes until the return phone call, holds the customer’s place in line and serves the return call to the next available customer support representative. We have also implemented an incoming call recognition system to automatically populate customer information onto the order entry screen, which saves time and increases order accuracy. Each customer support staff member has real-time access to extensive product information via our internal customer support website. This serves to increase efficiency and improve the customer shopping experience. Our customer support representatives are available for online and phone support weekdays from 9:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m., and weekends from 9:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m., Eastern time. Fulfillment and Shipping We believe that order fulfillment procedures, distribution center location and customized software to manage the pick, pack and ship order process are key elements of our strategy. In order to improve our inventory turnover and reduce overhead, we consolidated our fulfillment operations into our Greensboro, North Carolina fulfillment and distribution center in July 2003. Our customized fulfillment software enables us to pick, pack and ship orders in packages and sets, which under our Birthday Express brand involves an average of 14 picks consisting of over 100 individual components. We are now utilizing pick-to-light technology to pick the Birthday Express orders, and intend to make additional investments to further automate and enhance functionality in our replenishment and packaging operations. We experienced difficulties in our distribution center and incurred higher than anticipated costs related to the transition to the pick-to-light technology in fiscal 2006. The additional costs were primarily increases in labor, overtime and temporary labor costs incurred to ship customer orders. By the end of fiscal 2007, we had corrected the significant issues with the pick-to-light transition and started to see our costs improve from the prior year. Our distribution center is located close to key third-party shipping distribution hubs. This has enabled us to lower our shipping costs and provide faster delivery time to customers. We offer our customers overnight, two-day, three-day and ground delivery and utilize third-party shippers including United Parcel Service of America, Inc., United States Postal Service and Federal Express Corporation. Technology Systems Our order processing, fulfillment, customer support, inventory, merchandising and financial reporting systems utilize a combination of proprietary and licensed software. We concentrate our software development efforts on creating and enhancing the features and functionality of our website and order processing and fulfillment systems to deliver a high-quality customer experience. Our website includes Endeca search technology, customized web pages and several customer shopping cart and checkout alternatives. Our website uses secure encryption technology to send, receive and store customer information, including credit card information. We utilize licensed software and internally developed customer support enhancement features to manage our ordering processes. Our website is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week with minimal downtime required for maintenance. Our website is maintained in our secure data center in Kirkland, Washington. Our data center is also equipped with redundant network connections, emergency power backup systems and firewall software. We utilize tape backup systems for all our servers and software. We currently store our customer database on concurrently running servers. 8 Table of Contents Competition We operate in highly competitive markets including party goods and children’s costumes. Our primary competition comes from traditional retailers that offer a variety of products in the party products and apparel spaces. Competitors can enter our market with little difficulty and can launch new websites or catalogs at relatively low cost. We believe our primary competition in party goods and costumes is from mass merchandisers such as Target and Wal-Mart, party goods superstores such as Party City and Party America, and online retailers such as Oriental Trading and Buy Costumes. We also compete with a variety of other companies including: traditional card and gift specialty retailers; supermarkets and drugstores; and catalog retailers of novelty items. We believe the principal competitive factors in our markets are brand recognition, product selection, availability and quality, convenience, customer support and price as well as accurate and timely order fulfillment and delivery. Many of our current and potential competitors may have the ability to devote substantially more resources to marketing, customer support, product development and order fulfillment operations than we can. Some of our suppliers also may choose to compete directly with us and may in the future not supply product to us. In addition, larger and more well-financed entities may acquire, invest in or form joint ventures with our competitors. Some of our competitors may be able to secure products from suppliers on more favorable terms, fulfill orders more efficiently and adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we can. Intellectual Property We regard our copyrights, service marks, trademarks, trade secrets and similar intellectual property as critical to our success. We rely on trademark and copyright laws, trade secret protection and confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, customers, partners and others to protect our proprietary rights. Birthday Express and BirthdayExpress.com are registered with the United States Patent and Trademark office, and we have filed federal trademark applications for Costume Express and Celebrate Express. Our outstanding trademark applications may not be allowed. Even if these applications are allowed, they may not provide us a competitive advantage. Furthermore, the relationship between regulations governing domain names and laws protecting trademarks and similar proprietary rights is unclear. Therefore, we may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. Third parties have asserted, and may in the future assert, that our business or brands, or the products we make or use infringe upon their rights. We believe that our product and service offerings do not infringe upon the intellectual property rights of any third party. However, we cannot assure you that we will prevail in any intellectual property dispute. We also rely on technologies and designs developed and licensed from third parties. These licenses may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms in the future. Our design licenses, which include licensed trademarks and copyrights, are limited in scope, generally have two- or three-year terms and do not provide automatic renewal rights. Moreover, most of these licenses may be terminated immediately if we breach their terms. The loss of existing technology licenses could harm the performance of our existing services until equivalent technology can be identified, obtained and integrated. Failure to obtain new technology licenses may result in delays or reductions in the introduction of new features, functions or services, which could harm our business. Further, third parties may claim infringement by us with respect to our use of current or future technologies, whether developed by us or licensed from third parties. Although there are currently no material pending claims of infringement against us and we are not aware of any material claims that may be brought against us, third parties may in the future claim that the sale of one or more of our product offerings infringes their intellectual property rights. We expect that the continued growth of the Internet will result in an increasing number of infringement claims as legal standards related to our market continue to evolve. Any such claim, with or without merit, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, cause service upgrade delays, cause us to discontinue the availability of a particular product offering or discontinue use of a particular technology, require us to pay damages or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements might not be available on terms acceptable to 9 Table of Contents us or at all. As a result, any such claim of infringement against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Government Regulation We are not currently subject to direct federal, state or local regulation other than regulations applicable to businesses generally or directly applicable to retailing or online commerce. However, as the Internet becomes increasingly popular, it is possible that a number of laws and regulations may be adopted with respect to the Internet. These laws may cover issues such as user privacy, freedom of expression, pricing, content and quality of products and services, taxation, advertising, intellectual property rights and information security. Further, the growth and development of online commerce may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws, both in the U.S. and abroad. Regulations imposed by the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, may adversely affect the growth of our business or our marketing efforts. The FTC has adopted regulations regarding the collection, maintenance, dissemination and use of personal identifying information obtained from individuals when accessing websites. These regulations include requirements that we establish procedures to disclose and notify users of privacy and security policies, obtain consent from users for collection and use of information and provide users with the ability to access, correct and delete personal information stored by us. They also contain specific parental consent provisions with respect to collecting information from children. These regulations also include enforcement and redress provisions. In addition, the FTC has conducted investigations into the privacy practices of companies that collect information on the Internet. We may become subject to the FTC’s regulatory and enforcement efforts with respect to current regulations or future regulations, or those of other governmental bodies, which may adversely affect our ability to collect demographic and personal information from users and our ability to email users, which could adversely affect our marketing efforts. We also may be subject to regulation not specifically related to the Internet, including laws affecting direct marketers and advertisers. The adoption of or modification of laws applicable to Internet advertising, marketing or data collection could affect our ability to market our products, decrease the demand for our products, increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our business. We are not certain how our business may be affected by the application of existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, copyrights, encryption and other intellectual property issues, taxation, libel, obscenity, qualification to do business and export or import matters. Most of these laws were adopted prior to the advent of the Internet. As a result, they do not contemplate or address the unique issues of the Internet and related technologies. Changes in laws intended to address these issues could create uncertainty for those conducting online commerce. This uncertainty could reduce demand for our products and services or increase the cost of doing business as a result of litigation costs or increased fulfillment costs. In addition, because our products and services are available over the Internet in multiple states, certain states may claim that we are required to qualify to do business and collect sales tax from our customers located in those states. Currently, we are qualified to do business only in Washington and North Carolina. Our failure to qualify to do business in a jurisdiction where we are required to do so could subject us to taxes and penalties. It could also hamper our ability to enforce contracts in these jurisdictions. Additionally, we do not currently collect or have imposed upon us sales, use or other taxes related to the products we sell, except for certain corporate-level taxes and sales taxes with respect to purchases by customers located in the states of North Carolina and Washington. However, one or more states may seek to impose sales, use and other tax collection obligations on us in the future. A successful assertion by one or more states that we should be collecting sales, use or other taxes on the sale of our products could result in substantial tax liabilities and penalties in connection with past sales. The application of laws or regulations from jurisdictions whose laws do not currently apply to our business could harm our business and results of operations. Employees As of May 31, 2007, we had 332 full and part-time employees, including 108 in customer support, 38 in marketing and merchandising, 15 in technology and information systems, 155 in distribution and manufacturing and 16 in administration. None of our employees are represented by a labor union. We have not experienced any work stoppages and consider our employee relations to be good. 10 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors. Factors That May Affect Future Operating Results You should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this report. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Failure to successfully manage our fulfillment and distribution operations could cause us to incur increased costs or lose customers. Our fulfillment and distribution operations are located in Greensboro, North Carolina. These operations are critical to the cost-effective and efficient fulfillment and shipment of customer orders. We are making modifications to our distribution center to accommodate more streamlined distribution procedures. We have incurred higher than anticipated costs in implementing these procedures, as well as higher fulfillment costs related to our transition to a more automated order picking process. As a result, fulfillment costs were 13.5% of net sales in fiscal 2007 and 13.4% of net sales in fiscal 2006. These increased costs contributed significantly to our net losses in the first and third quarters of fiscal 2007, and in the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2006. We have also observed some erosion in the repeat buying rates of our customers, which we attribute partially to the distribution center problems we have experienced over the past year. If we are unable to successfully manage our fulfillment operations, including further process improvements planned in fiscal 2008, we may experience higher than anticipated costs, hurt our reputation and discourage repeat sales. We have incurred net losses in recent quarters and may not be able to return to or sustain profitability in the future. In the three months periods ended May 31, 2007, February 28, 2007, August 31, 2006, May 31, 2006 and February 28, 2006 we had net losses of $62,000, $137,000, $326,000, $324,000 and $398,000, respectively. Though we were profitable in the twelve-month period ended May 31, 2007, we have had a history of losses. We may incur losses again in future fiscal years, especially if we introduce new brands or products, make investments in our systems or infrastructure, or continue to have difficulties in our distribution center. We expect our operating expenses to increase in the future, as we, among other things: • expand into new product categories; • continue with our marketing efforts to build our brand names; • expand our customer base; • upgrade our operational and financial systems, procedures and controls; • invest in and upgrade our distribution center; and • retain existing personnel and hire additional personnel, including senior management. We may not be able to generate the required sales from our current or new product categories or reduce fulfillment and other operating expenses sufficiently to sustain or increase profitability. If we have a shortfall in sales without a corresponding reduction to our expenses, our operating results will suffer. It is possible that results of operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which could cause the trading price of our common stock to fall. If we do not successfully expand sales into other product categories beyond party goods, we may not be able to achieve our desired revenue growth. We were incorporated and began selling party products through our direct marketing catalog in June 1994 and on our www.BirthdayExpress.com website in April 1996. In September 2003, we launched our www.Costumeexpress.com website and catalog for Costume Express, a provider of children’s and family costumes. We have historically derived more than 75% of our annual revenues from the sale of party products and accessories to families with young children 11 Table of Contents under our Birthday Express brand. In order to achieve the desired growth in our sales and business, we will need to expand into new product categories. Challenges that may affect our ability to expand into new product categories include our ability to: • improve the efficiency of our distribution center; • successfully design, produce and market new products; • identify and introduce new product categories; • maintain our gross margins with respect to new product categories; • provide a satisfactory mix of merchandise that is responsive to the needs of our customers; • broaden consumer awareness of our existing and future brands; • manage our selling, marketing and fulfillment costs; and • manage our dual-channel direct marketing model. Furthermore, we have not demonstrated the ability to expand into other product categories through acquisitions. In April 2001, we acquired certain assets of Storybook Inc., a direct marketer of girls’ specialty and special occasion apparel. In February 2002, we re-launched the Storybook Heirlooms brand and the website www.Storybook.com. Revenue growth from the Storybook Heirlooms brand, however, did not meet management expectations, which was a significant factor in our decision in June 2006 to wind-down the brand. In addition, we may experience a higher degree of seasonality in our business as we expand our brands or expand into new brands or product categories that have seasonal significance. If we are unsuccessful in addressing these risks and uncertainties, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. The loss of our senior management or other key personnel could harm our current and future operations and prospects. Our performance is substantially dependent on the services of our senior management and other key personnel, particularly, Kevin Green, our president and chief executive officer and Darin White, our vice president finance. Several of our former officers terminated their employment with Celebrate Express in the recent past. These departures had an adverse impact on our operations and financial results. In fiscal 2007 we hired a vice president of merchandising, vice president of marketing, vice president of operations and vice president of information technology. However, we cannot assure you that these new senior executives will successfully integrate with the company or that the prior or continuing absence of senior management will not adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our performance also depends on our ability to retain and motivate our officers and key employees. We do not have employment agreements with our senior executives or other key personnel except Messrs. Green and White. The loss of the services of Messrs. Green or White or any of our other senior executives or key employees for any reason could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain, and motivate senior management and other technical, managerial, editorial, merchandising, marketing, and customer support personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense and we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully attract, assimilate or retain sufficiently qualified personnel. We must compete with other party goods and costume retailers and mass merchandisers on the selection, quality and price of our products, and failure to do so successfully could negatively affect our stock price. In order to meet our strategic goals, we must successfully offer, on a continuous basis, a broad selection of appealing products to families with young children. To successfully compete against other party goods retailers, costume retailers and mass merchandisers, our product offerings must be affordable, high-quality, innovative and attractive to a wide range of consumers whose preferences may change from time to time. We cannot predict with certainty that we will be successful in offering products that meet these requirements. If consumers do not find our products attractive or our products otherwise become less popular with consumers, we may see increased 12 Table of Contents merchandise returns, inventory write-downs and increased costs. Any shortcomings in our merchandise strategy could adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. Children’s tastes change and are often difficult to predict, and any failure by us to correctly identify and react appropriately to these changing preferences could hurt our sales and gross margins and render a portion of our inventory obsolete. Our failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately to changes in consumer demand could lead to excess inventories and significant markdowns or a shortage of products and lost sales. Our strategy, relations with our customers and margins are dependent, in part, on our identification and regular introduction of new designs that are appealing to our customers, especially children. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify, obtain or license popular third-party designs or that our design personnel will be able to timely identify and introduce appealing designs in sufficient volume to support our strategy and operations. We must also anticipate changes in the tastes and preferences of consumers in order to compete for their business successfully. In particular, our ability to anticipate changes in the tastes and preferences of children, which change often and quickly, is crucial to our success, and we could misinterpret or fail to identify trends on a timely basis. Further, product orders must be placed with suppliers before we receive orders from our customers, and the demand for specific products can change between the time the products are ordered by us and the date we receive them. If we underestimate consumer demand, we may disappoint customers and lose potential sales to our competitors. If we overestimate consumer acceptance of our products, we may be required to take significant inventory markdowns or sell our products at discounted prices, which could reduce our sales and gross margins. If we fail to promote and maintain our brands effectively, we may not be able to compete successfully with better-known competitors. Building and maintaining recognition of our brands by families with young children is critical to expanding our customer base and competing successfully against other party goods retailers and mass merchandisers with greater brand recognition. In order to continue building consumer recognition of our brands, we will need to increase our financial commitment to creating and maintaining brand awareness in a manner targeted at families with young children. We cannot be certain that our marketing efforts will attract new customers, enable us to retain existing customers, or encourage repeat purchases. If these efforts are not successful, our sales may not grow to desired levels, or could even decline. If we do not successfully maintain and expand our customer and prospect databases our sales volume could suffer and our marketing costs could increase. We depend on our proprietary customer and prospect databases to facilitate repeat sales and attract new customers. If we fail to keep these databases current, or if the information in these databases is damaged or destroyed, our sales could stagnate or even decline. If we do not expand our databases of customers and prospects, or if we fail to enhance and refine our techniques for segmenting this information to maximize its usefulness, our sales volume could suffer and our marketing costs could increase. In addition, if federal or state governments enact privacy legislation resulting in the increased regulation of mailing lists, we could experience increased costs in complying with new regulations concerning the solicitation of consents or be unable to achieve the desired database and sales volume growth. Our operating results could suffer if we are unable to successfully manage the costs of our catalog operations or if our catalogs fail to produce sales at satisfactory levels. Our catalogs have been an important tool for the acquisition and retention of customers. We believe that the success of our catalogs as a cost-effective marketing tool depends on the following factors: • effective management of costs associated with the production and distribution of our catalogs; • achievement of adequate response rates to our mailings; • displaying a mix of merchandise in our catalogs that is attractive to our customers; and • timely delivery of catalog mailings to our customers. 13 Table of Contents Catalog production and mailings entail substantial paper, printing, postage and labor costs. Increases in the costs of producing and distributing our catalogs, including increases in postage rates, or paper, photography or printing costs, may reduce the margin on sales derived from our catalogs. As we incur nearly all of the costs associated with our catalogs prior to mailing, we are unable to adjust the costs incurred in connection with a particular mailing to reflect the actual performance of the catalog. In addition, response rates to our mailings and, as a result, sales generated by each mailing are affected by factors such as consumer preferences, economic conditions, the timing and mix of our catalog mailings, the timely delivery of these mailings by the postal system, and changes in our merchandise assortment, some of which are outside of our control. A significant increase in the costs associated with producing or distributing our catalogs, or failure of our catalogs to produce sales at satisfactory levels, could have a negative effect on our operating results. Increased product returns, or a failure by us to accurately predict the level of product returns, could harm our business. As part of our customer support commitment, we maintain a product return policy that allows recipients to return most items received from us with which they are dissatisfied. We make allowances for product returns in our financial statements based on historical return rates. We cannot assure you that actual product returns will not significantly exceed our allowances for returns. In addition, because our allowances are based on historical return rates, we cannot assure you that the introduction of new merchandise within existing or new product categories, increased sales over the Internet, changes in the habits of our customers or other factors will not cause actual returns to exceed return allowances, perhaps significantly. Any increase in product returns above our allowances could have a negative impact on our financial results and may, in turn, cause our stock price to decline. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. We operate in several competitive markets including party goods and children’s and family costumes. Our primary competition comes from traditional retailers that offer a variety of products in the party goods and children’s and family costume markets. We believe our primary competition in party goods and costumes is from mass merchandisers such as Target and Wal-Mart, and party goods superstores such as Party City and Party America. We also compete in these markets with a variety of other companies including: online retailers of party goods; online retailers of costumes; traditional card and gift specialty retailers; supermarkets and drugstores; and catalog retailers of novelty items. Competitors can enter our market with little difficulty and can launch new websites or catalogs at a relatively low cost. Many of these current and potential competitors may have the ability to devote substantially more resources to marketing, customer support, product development and order fulfillment operations than we can. Some of our suppliers also may choose to compete with us directly and may in the future choose not to supply products to us. In addition, larger or more well-financed entities have acquired and may in the future acquire, invest in or form joint ventures with our competitors. Some of our competitors may be able to secure products from suppliers on more favorable terms, fulfill orders more efficiently or adopt more aggressive pricing than we can. If we are unable to compete effectively in our markets, our business, financial condition and operating results may suffer. We depend on search engines to attract customers to our website, and losing these customers would adversely affect our revenues and financial results. Many consumers access our website by clicking through search results displayed by Internet search engines. Internet search engines typically provide two types of search results, algorithmic listings and purchased listings. Algorithmic listings cannot be purchased, and instead are determined and displayed solely by a set of formulas utilized by the search engine. Purchased listings can be bought by advertisers in order to attract users to their websites. We rely on both algorithmic and purchased listings to attract and direct consumers to our website. Search engines revise their algorithms from time to time in an attempt to optimize their search results. If one or more of the search engines on which we rely for algorithmic listings were to modify its algorithms, resulting in fewer consumers clicking through to our website, we would need to increase our marketing expenditures, which would adversely affect our financial results. In addition, the rates for purchased listings have significantly increased. If one or more of the search engines on which we rely for purchased listings modifies or terminates its relationship with us or if the 14 Table of Contents rates for purchased listings continues to rise, our online marketing expenses as a percentage of revenue could rise, we could lose customers, we could be forced to look for other advertising avenues and traffic to our website could decrease. Because we do not have long-term contracts for third-party products, we may not have continued access to popular products. Our business depends significantly on the use of third-party proprietary products and our future success is contingent upon the continued availability of these products. We do not have long-term arrangements with any vendor or distributor that would guarantee the availability of third-party proprietary products and, as a result, we do not have a predictable or guaranteed supply of these products. We cannot assure you we will have access to any third-party products in sufficient quantities. If we are unable to provide our customers with continued access to popular or exclusive third-party products, our sales could decline. If we are unable to maintain or acquire licenses to intellectual property, we may have fewer proprietary products and our sales may decline. Many of our proprietary products are based on or incorporate intellectual property and other character or story rights licensed from third parties. These license agreements are limited in scope, typically have a two- or three-year term and lack renewal rights. We may not be able to renew key licenses when they expire or include new products in existing licenses. Moreover, most of these licenses may be terminated immediately if we breach their terms. If we are unable to maintain these licenses and obtain additional licenses with significant commercial value, or maintain them at reasonable costs, we will be unable to increase our revenue in the future unless we offset the loss of the products that depend on these licenses with an increase in sales of our independently created proprietary products. Because we do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers, we may not have continued access to necessary materials and our sales may suffer. Our financial performance depends on our ability to purchase our products in sufficient quantities at competitive prices. We purchase our products from over 250 foreign and domestic manufacturers and distributors. We have no long-term purchase contracts with any of these suppliers, and therefore, have no contractual assurances of continued supply, access to products or favorable pricing. Any vendor could increase prices or discontinue selling to us at any time. The lack of long-term contracts also exposes us to increased risks associated with changes in local economic conditions, trade issues and foreign currency fluctuations. In the year ended May 31, 2007, products supplied by our ten largest suppliers represented approximately 43.0% of inventory purchases, with our largest supplier representing 14.6%. If we are unable to maintain these supplier relationships, our ability to offer high-quality, favorably-priced products to our customers may be impaired, and our sales and gross margins could decline. Our reliance on smaller or independent vendors and suppliers and manufacturers located abroad exposes us to various risks including disruption in product supply. Some of our smaller vendors have limited resources, production capacities and operating histories, which means that they may not be able to timely produce sufficient quantities of certain products demanded by our customers. In addition, our relationships with independent foreign suppliers and manufacturers are also subject to a number of risks, including: • work stoppages; • transportation delays and interruptions; • political instability; • foreign currency fluctuations; • changing economic conditions; • an increased likelihood of counterfeit, knock-off or gray market goods; 15 Table of Contents • product liability claims; • expropriation, nationalization, imposition of tariffs, import and export controls and other non-tariff barriers, including quotas and restrictions on the transfer of funds; • environmental regulation; and • other changes in governmental policies. Because of these factors, we may be subject to liability claims or may not be able to acquire desired products in sufficient quantities on terms acceptable to us. Any inability to acquire suitable products, the loss of one or more key vendors, or the settlement or outcome of a product liability suit could have a negative effect on our sales and operating results. We may not be able to develop relationships with new vendors, and products from alternative sources, if any, may be of lesser quality or more expensive than those we currently purchase. We cannot be certain that such factors will not prevent us from procuring manufactured products in a cost-effective or timely manner. We may face product liability claims that are costly and create adverse publicity. If any of the products that we sell causes harm or damages to any of our customers or other individuals, we could be vulnerable to product liability claims. We have in the past recalled, and may in the future recall, products that we sold. Although we maintain insurance against product liability claims, our coverage may be inadequate to cover any liabilities we may incur. We work with experts to test some of our products for safety compliance, but our tests may not identify all potential product defects before products are sold. Even if we successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we could be forced to spend a substantial amount of money in litigation expenses, our management could be required to spend valuable time in the defense against these claims, we could be required to remove products from inventory, and we could suffer adverse publicity about the safety and fitness of our products, any of which could harm our business. Failure of third parties to deliver our products efficiently and in a timely manner could cause us to lose customers. We rely upon other parties for product shipments to and from our Greensboro, North Carolina fulfillment and distribution center. It is possible that events beyond our control, such as strikes, trucking shortages, the imposition of tariffs, rail disruption, or other disruption, could affect the ability of these parties to deliver inventory items to our facilities or merchandise to our customers. The failure of these parties to deliver goods to or from our facilities could result in delays in fulfillment of customer orders. Because our customer orders are often time-sensitive, delays by our third-party shipment providers could hurt our reputation and our ability to obtain repeat orders. Fluctuations in commodity prices may increase our operating costs and make our expenses difficult to predict. We are vulnerable to fluctuations in commodity prices, particularly the price of paper stock. Paper goods comprise a significant portion of our total inventory. In addition, a portion of our marketing expenditures are related to our direct marketing efforts which include our paper catalogs. If the price of paper increases significantly, we may be unable to pass the additional costs on to our customers, which could hurt our profitability. In addition, fluctuations in commodity prices could make it difficult for us to accurately forecast our expenses. We may consider acquisitions as part of our growth strategy, and failure to adequately evaluate or integrate any acquisitions could harm our business. We have limited experience in acquiring other businesses. In April 2001, we acquired the assets of Storybook Inc. Integration expenses were higher than anticipated and despite considerable effort and time spent, revenue growth from the Storybook brand did not meet management expectations. In June of 2006, we announced the wind-down of the Storybook brand. We may consider opportunities to acquire other products and businesses that could enhance or complement our current products and services or expand the breadth of our product categories or customer base. Potential and completed acquisitions involve numerous risks, including unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition and risks associated with entering product categories in which we have no or limited prior experience. If we fail to properly evaluate and execute future acquisitions, our management team may be distracted from our day-to-day operations, our business may be disrupted, and our operating results may suffer. 16 Table of Contents Our business involves the extensive use of intellectual property, and related claims against us could be costly or force us to abandon popular products. Third parties have asserted, and may in the future assert, that our business or the products we make or use infringe upon their rights. We cannot predict whether third parties will assert claims of infringement against us, or whether any past or future assertions or prosecutions of infringement will harm our business. If we are forced to defend against any such claims, whether they are with or without merit and even if they are determined in our favor, we may face costly litigation, diversion of the attention of our technical and management personnel and product shipment delays. As a result of any infringement dispute, we may have to develop non-infringing products or enter into royalty or licensing agreements, which may be on unfavorable terms. If there is a successful claim of infringement against us, and we are unable to develop non-infringing products or license the infringed or similar product on a timely basis or at all, we will need to drop the infringed product from our offerings and our sales could suffer. If the protection of our trademarks and proprietary rights is inadequate, our brands and reputation could be impaired and we could lose customers. The steps we take to protect our proprietary rights may be inadequate. We regard our copyrights, service marks, trademarks, trade dress, trade secrets and similar intellectual property as critical to our success. We rely on trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, customers, partners and others to protect our proprietary rights. Birthday Express and BirthdayExpress.com are registered with the United States Patent and Trademark office, and we have filed federal trademark applications for Costume Express and Celebrate Express. We cannot be certain we will be able to obtain registration for our filed trademarks or for trademarks we submit applications for in the future. Effective trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which we will sell our products and services. Furthermore, the relationship between regulations governing domain names and laws protecting trademarks and similar proprietary rights is unclear. Therefore, we may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights and our brands and reputation could be impaired and we could lose customers. If we cannot maintain and protect our existing domain names or acquire suitable new domain names as needed, we may not be able to successfully build our brands. We may be unable to acquire or maintain Internet domain names relating to our brands in the United States and other countries in which we may conduct business. As a result, we may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring and using domain names relating to our brands. Such use could damage our brands and reputation and divert customers away from our website. We currently hold various relevant domain names, including www.BirthdayExpress.com, www.CelebrateExpress.com, and www.CostumeExpress.com. The acquisition and maintenance of domain names generally is regulated by governmental agencies. Governing bodies may establish additional top-level domains, appoint additional domain name registrars or modify the requirements for holding domain names, any of which may affect our ability to maintain the domain names we need for our business. If we cannot prevent others from using similar domain names we may be unable to successfully build our brands. Capacity constraints, systems failures or security breaches could prevent access to our website, which could lower our sales and harm our reputation. Our service goals of performance, reliability and availability require that we have adequate capacity in our computer systems to cope with the volume of customers on our website. As our operations grow in size and scope, we will need to improve and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to maintain or improve the efficiency of our operations as well as to offer customers enhanced services, capacity, features and functionality. The expansion and/or upgrade of our systems and infrastructure will require us to commit substantial financial, operational and technical resources before the volume of our business increases and with no assurance of a corresponding increase in sales. If we cannot expand and/or upgrade our systems in a timely or efficient manner, we could experience increased costs, disruptions in service, slower response times, lower customer satisfaction and delays in the introduction of new products and services. Any of these problems could impair our reputation, damage our brands and cause our sales to decline. 17 Table of Contents Our ability to provide high-quality service depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications systems. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, break-ins, sabotage, computer viruses, design defects, vandalism, denial-of-service attacks and similar events. Our website has experienced system interruptions from time to time and could experience periodic system interruptions in the future. We do not have a formal disaster recovery plan or alternate providers of web hosting services, and a power outage at our data center could mean the temporary loss of the use of our website. Our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for the associated losses. Any system failure or security breach that causes an interruption in service or decreases the responsiveness of our customer support center or website could impair our reputation, damage our brands and cause a decrease in sales. If we are unable to provide satisfactory telephone-based customer support, we could lose customers. Our ability to provide satisfactory levels of customer support also depends, to a large degree, on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our customer support centers. Any material disruption or slowdown in our telephone order processing systems resulting from capacity constraints, labor disputes, telephone or Internet failures, power or service outages, natural disasters or other events could make it difficult or impossible to provide adequate telephone-based customer support. Further, we may be unable to attract and retain an adequate number of competent customer support representatives, which is essential in creating a favorable customer experience. If we are unable to continually provide adequate staffing for our customer support operations, our reputation could be seriously harmed. In addition, we cannot assure you that call volumes will not exceed our present system capacities. If this occurs, we could experience delays in accepting orders, responding to customer inquiries and addressing customer concerns. Also, we may be required to expand our customer support centers in the near future. We cannot assure you that we will be able to find additional suitable facilities on acceptable terms or at all, which could seriously hinder our ability to provide satisfactory levels of customer support. Because our success depends in large part on keeping our customers satisfied, any failure to provide satisfactory levels of customer support would likely impair our reputation and we could lose customers. Temporary or permanent disruption at our fulfillment facility could prevent timely shipment of customer orders and hurt our sales. We assemble, package, and ship our orders, and process all product returns, at our Greensboro, North Carolina fulfillment and distribution facility. In the future, we may be unable to fulfill our customers’ orders at this facility in a timely manner, or at all, due to a number of factors, including: • a failure to maintain or renew our existing lease agreement; • a power, telecommunications or other systems failure; • an employee strike or other labor stoppage; • terrorist attacks, acts of war or break-ins; • a disruption in the transportation infrastructure including air traffic and roads; or • fire, flood, hurricane or other disaster. In the event that we are temporarily unable to timely fulfill our customers’ orders through our Greensboro facility, we will either upgrade the shipping or attempt to re-ship the orders from another source. However, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to fulfill all orders or that we will be able to deliver the affected orders in a timely manner. This could result in increased fulfillment costs or a decrease in sales, as well as the potential loss of repeat orders from affected customers. In addition, if operations at our Greensboro facility become permanently disrupted due to any of the above or other factors, we may not be able to secure a replacement fulfillment and distribution facility on terms acceptable to us or at all. We do not currently maintain back-up power systems at our Greensboro facility, nor do we have a formal disaster recovery plan and our business interruption insurance may be insufficient to compensate us for losses that occur in the event operations at our fulfillment and distribution center are interrupted. 18 Table of Contents We may incur significant costs or experience product availability delays in complying with regulations applicable to the sale of our manufactured products. We use a variety of water-based inks, paper and coatings in the manufacture of our paper party products. We are required to maintain our manufacturing operations in compliance with United States federal, state and local laws and regulations, including but not limited to rules and regulations associated with consumer protection and safety, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, or CERCLA, the Food and Drug Administration and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, or OSHA. Changes in laws and regulations applicable to our business could significantly increase our costs of goods sold and we may not be able to pass these increases on to our customers. If we fail to comply with current laws and regulations applicable to our business, or to pass annual inspections of our facilities by regulatory bodies, we could be subject to fines and penalties or even interruptions of our operations. In addition, failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to the risk of private lawsuits and damages. If use of the Internet, particularly with respect to online commerce, does not continue to increase as rapidly as we anticipate, our sales may not grow to desired levels. For the year ended May 31, 2007, our online sales represented approximately 76% of our total sales. Our future sales and profits are substantially dependent upon the continued use of the Internet as an effective medium of business and communication by our customers. Internet use may not continue to develop at historical rates and consumers may not continue to use the Internet and other online services as a medium for commerce. Highly-publicized failures of some online retailers in meeting consumer demands could result in consumer reluctance to adopt the Internet as a means for commerce, and thereby damage our reputation and brands and reduce our revenues and results of operations. In addition, the Internet may not be accepted as a viable long-term commercial marketplace for a number of reasons, including: • actual or perceived lack of security of information or privacy protection; • possible disruptions, computer viruses or other damage to the Internet servers or to users’ computers; and • excessive governmental regulation. If the Internet fails to continue growing as a commercial marketplace, our sales may not increase as much as desired by our shareholders, or at all. Risks related to the Internet, including security and reliability issues, are largely outside our control and may hurt our reputation or sales. Our online business is subject to numerous risks, many of which are outside our control. In addition to changing consumer preferences and buying trends relating to Internet usage, we are vulnerable to additional risks and uncertainties associated with the Internet. These risks include changes in required technology interfaces, website downtime or slowdowns and other technical failures or human errors, changes in applicable federal and state regulation, security breaches, and consumer privacy concerns. Our failure to respond successfully to these risks and uncertainties might adversely affect the sales through our online business, as well as damage our reputation and increase our selling and marketing and general and administrative expenses. In addition, our success will depend, in large part, upon third parties maintaining the Internet infrastructure to provide a reliable network backbone with the speed, data capacity, security and hardware necessary for reliable Internet access and services. Our business, which relies on a graphically-rich website that requires the transmission of substantial data, is also significantly dependent upon the availability and adoption of broadband Internet access and other high-speed Internet connectivity technologies. Any significant reliability, data capacity or connectivity problems experienced by the Internet or its users could harm our sales and profitability. 19 Table of Contents Government regulation of database use in direct marketing and Internet and online commerce is evolving. Unfavorable changes in these regulations could substantially harm our business and results of operations. We are subject to general business regulations and laws, as well as regulations and laws that specifically govern database use in direct marketing and Internet and online commerce. Existing and future regulations and laws may impede the growth of database direct marketing, Internet or other online services. These regulations and laws may cover taxation, restrictions on imports and exports, customs, tariffs, user privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, email restrictions, the provision of online payment services, broadband residential Internet access and the characteristics and quality of products and services. It is not clear how existing laws and regulations governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel and personal privacy apply to database direct marketing, the Internet and online commerce. Unfavorable resolution of these issues may slow the growth of database direct marketing, online commerce and, in turn, our business. Our failure to protect confidential information of our customers and our network against security breaches could damage our reputation and brands and subject us to legal liability. A significant barrier to online commerce and communications is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Currently, a majority of our sales are billed to our customers’ credit card accounts directly. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to effect secure transmission of confidential information, including credit card numbers. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments may result in a compromise or breach of the technology we use to protect customer transaction data. Any compromise of our security could damage our reputation and brands and expose us to a risk of lost sales, or litigation and possible legal liability. In addition, anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. We may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches. Our failure to address risks associated with credit card fraud and bad debt could damage our reputation, brands and results of operations. Under current credit card practices, we are liable for fraudulent credit card transactions because we do not obtain a cardholder’s signature. We do not currently carry insurance against this risk. To date, we have experienced minimal losses from credit card fraud, but we face the risk of significant losses from this type of fraud as our net sales increase. We have also instituted a promotional offer which allows customers to purchase products from us with the associated billing to their credit card occurring on a predetermined date in the future, generally within 90 days of the purchase date. We are currently assuming the credit risk associated with the delayed collection of funds for this customer offer. Losses incurred from fraudulent transactions or bad debt associated with the extension of credit to our customers could impair our results of operations. In addition, any failure to adequately control fraudulent credit card transactions could damage our reputation and brands, and reduce our sales. Our sales may decrease if we are required to collect taxes on purchases. We do not collect or have imposed upon us sales, use or other taxes related to the products we sell, except for certain corporate-level taxes and sales taxes with respect to purchases by customers located in the states of North Carolina and Washington. However, one or more states may seek to impose sales, use or other tax collection obligations on us in the future. A successful assertion by one or more states that we should be collecting sales, use or other taxes on the sale of our products could result in substantial tax liabilities and penalties in connection with past sales. In addition, if we are required to collect these taxes we will lose one of our current cost advantages, which may decrease our ability to compete with traditional retailers and substantially harm our sales. We have based our policies for sales and use tax collection on our interpretation of certain decisions of the U.S. Supreme Court that restrict the imposition of obligations to collect state and local sales and use taxes with respect to sales made through catalogs or over the Internet. However, implementation of the restrictions imposed by 20 Table of Contents these Supreme Court decisions is subject to interpretation by state and local taxing authorities. While we believe that these Supreme Court decisions currently restrict state and local taxing authorities outside the states of North Carolina and Washington from requiring us to collect sales and use taxes from purchasers located within their jurisdictions, taxing authorities outside of North Carolina and Washington could disagree with our interpretation of these decisions. Moreover, a number of states, as well as the U.S. Congress, have been considering various initiatives that could limit or supersede the Supreme Court’s position regarding sales and use taxes on Internet sales. If any state or local taxing jurisdiction were to disagree with our interpretation of the Supreme Court’s current position regarding state and local taxation of Internet sales, or if any of these initiatives were to address the Supreme Court’s constitutional concerns and result in a reversal of its current position, we could be required to collect sales and use taxes from purchasers located in states other than North Carolina and Washington. The imposition of additional tax obligations on our business by state and local governments could create significant administration burdens for us, decrease our future sales and harm our cash flow and operating results. Failure to rapidly respond to technological change could result in our services or systems becoming obsolete. As the Internet and online commerce industries evolve, we may be required to license emerging technologies useful to our business, enhance our existing services, develop new services and technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our prospective customers and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. We may not be able to successfully implement these new services and technologies or adapt our website, telephone and transaction-processing systems to customer requirements or emerging industry standards. Some of our computer systems use antiquated software that is no longer supported by the vendor. If we were to encounter problems with these systems it could be costly and time consuming to correct, and may disrupt operations. If we fail to respond to these issues in a timely manner, we may lose existing customers and be unable to attract sufficient numbers of new customers. Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. If our shareholders sell substantial amounts of common stock in the public market, or if the market perceives that these sales may occur, the market price of our common stock may decline. We have registered all shares of common stock that we may issue under our employee benefits plans. As a result, these shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to restrictions under the securities laws. The holders of a significant portion of our common stock have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering the resale of their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other shareholders. These registration rights of our shareholders could impair our ability to raise capital by depressing the price at which we could sell our common stock. Our directors, executive officers and significant shareholders hold a substantial portion of our stock, which may lead to conflicts with other shareholders over corporate transactions and other corporate matters. Our directors and current beneficial holders of 5% or more of our outstanding common stock own a significant portion of our stock. These individuals, acting together, are able to control or influence significantly all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions such as mergers or other business combinations. This control may delay, deter or prevent a third-party from acquiring or merging with us and limit the ability of smaller shareholders to influence corporate matters. We will need to implement additional finance and accounting systems, procedures and controls as we grow our business and organization and to satisfy new reporting requirements. As a public reporting company, we are required to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the SEC, including expanded disclosures and accelerated reporting requirements and more complex accounting rules. Compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other requirements will increase our costs and require additional management time and resources. We may need to continue to implement additional finance and accounting systems, procedures and controls to satisfy new reporting requirements. If our internal controls over financial reporting are determined to be ineffective, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our internal controls over financial reporting, which could adversely affect our stock price. 21 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 