Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information in this Form 10-K. The business, results of operations or financial condition of Palm could be seriously harmed and the trading price of Palm common stock may decline due to any of these risks. Risks Related to Our Business Our operating results are subject to fluctuations, and if we fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price may decrease significantly. Our operating results are difficult to forecast. Our future operating results may fluctuate significantly and may not meet our expectations or those of securities analysts or investors. If this occurs, the price of our stock will likely decline. Many factors may cause fluctuations in our operating results including, but not limited to, the following: · timely introduction and market acceptance of new products and services; · changes in consumer and enterprise spending levels; · quality issues with our products; · changes in consumer, enterprise and carrier preferences for our products and services; · loss or failure of carriers or other key sales channel partners; · competition from other smartphone or handheld devices or other devices with similar functionality; · competition for consumer and enterprise spending on other products; · failure by our third party manufacturers or suppliers to meet our quantity and quality requirements for products or product components on time; · failure to add or replace third party manufacturers or suppliers in a timely manner; · changes in terms, pricing or promotional programs; · variations in product costs or the mix of products sold; · failure to achieve product cost and operating expense targets; · excess inventory or insufficient inventory to meet demand; · seasonality of demand for some of our products and services; · litigation brought against us; and · changes in general economic conditions and specific market conditions. Any of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to develop and introduce new products and services successfully and in a cost effective and timely manner, we will not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate revenues will suffer. We operate in a highly competitive, rapidly evolving environment, and our success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products and services that our customers and end users choose to buy. If we are unsuccessful at developing and introducing new products and services that are appealing to our customers and end users with acceptable quality, prices and terms, we will not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate revenues will suffer. 14 Table of Contents The development of new products and services is very difficult and requires high levels of innovation. The development process is also lengthy and costly. If we fail to anticipate our end users’ needs or technological trends accurately or are unable to complete the development of products and services in a cost effective and timely fashion, we will be unable to introduce new products and services into the market or successfully compete with other providers. As we introduce new or enhanced products or integrate new technology into new or existing products, we face risks including, among other things, disruption in customers’ ordering patterns, excessive levels of older product inventories, delivering sufficient supplies of new products to meet customers’ demand, possible product and technology defects, and a potentially different sales and support environment. Premature announcements or leaks of new products, features or technologies may exacerbate some of these risks. Our failure to manage the transition to newer products or the integration of newer technology into new or existing products could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our smartphone and handheld products may contain errors or defects, which could result in the rejection or return of our products, damage to our reputation, lost revenues, diverted development resources and increased service costs, warranty claims and litigation. Our smartphone and handheld products are complex and must meet stringent user requirements. In addition, we warrant that our products will be free of defect for 90 to 365 days after the date of purchase, depending on the product. In Europe, we are required by law in some countries to provide a two-year warranty for certain defects. In addition, certain of our contracts with wireless carriers include epidemic failure clauses with low thresholds that we have in some instances exceeded. If invoked, these clauses may entitle the carrier to return or obtain credits for products and inventory, or to cancel outstanding purchase orders. In addition, we must develop our hardware and software application products quickly to keep pace with the rapidly changing mobile computing market, and we have a history of frequently introducing new products. Products as sophisticated as ours are likely to contain undetected errors or defects, especially when first introduced or when new models or versions are released. Our smartphone and handheld products may not be free from errors or defects after commercial shipments have begun, which could result in the rejection of our products, damage to our reputation, lost revenues, diverted development resources, increased customer service and support costs and warranty claims and litigation which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are highly dependent on wireless carriers for the success of our smartphone products. The success of our business strategy and our smartphone products is highly dependent on our ability to establish new relationships and build on our existing relationships with domestic and international wireless carriers. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in establishing new relationships, or maintaining or advancing existing relationships, with wireless carriers or that these wireless carriers will act in a manner that will promote the success of our smartphone products. Factors that are largely within the control of wireless carriers, but which are important to the success of our smartphone products, include: · testing of our smartphone products on wireless carriers’ networks; · quality and coverage area of wireless voice and data services offered by the wireless carriers; · the degree to which wireless carriers facilitate the introduction of and actively market, advertise, promote, distribute and resell our smartphone products; · the extent to which wireless carriers require specific hardware and software features on our smartphone products to be used on their networks; · timely build out of advanced wireless carrier networks that enhance the user experience for data centric services through higher speed and “always on” functionality; 15 Table of Contents · contractual terms and conditions imposed on us by wireless carriers that, in some circumstances, could limit our ability to make similar products available through competitive carriers in some market segments; · wireless carriers’ pricing requirements and subsidy programs; and · pricing and other terms and conditions of voice and data rate plans that the wireless carriers offer for use with our smartphone products. For example, flat data rate pricing plans offered by some wireless carriers may represent some risk to our relationship with such carriers. While flat data pricing helps customer adoption of the data services offered by carriers and therefore highlights the advantages of the data applications of our smartphone products, such plans may not allow our smartphones to contribute as much average revenue per user, or ARPU, to wireless carriers as when they are priced by usage, and therefore reduces our differentiation from other, non-data devices in the view of the carriers. In addition, if wireless carriers charge higher rates than consumers are willing to pay, the acceptance of our wireless solutions could be less than anticipated and our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected. Wireless carriers have substantial bargaining power as we enter into agreements with them. They may require contract terms that are difficult for us to satisfy and could result in higher costs to complete certification requirements and negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, we do not have agreements with some of the wireless carriers with whom we do business and, in some cases, the agreements may be with third-party distributors and may not pass through rights to us or provide us with recourse or contact with the carrier. The absence of agreements means that, with little or no notice, these wireless carriers could refuse to continue to purchase all or some of our products or change the terms under which they purchase our products. If these wireless carriers were to stop purchasing our products, we may be unable to replace the lost sales channel on a timely basis and our results of operations could be harmed. Wireless carriers also significantly affect our ability to develop and launch products for use on their wireless networks. If we fail to address the needs of wireless carriers, identify new product and service opportunities or modify or improve our smartphone products in response to changes in technology, industry standards or wireless carrier requirements, our products could rapidly become less competitive or obsolete. If we fail to timely develop smartphone products that meet carrier product planning cycles or fail to deliver sufficient quantities of products in a timely manner to wireless carriers, those carriers may choose to emphasize similar products from our competitors and thereby reduce their focus on our products which would have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Carriers, who control most of the distribution and sale of, and virtually all of the access for, smartphone products could commoditize smartphones, thereby reducing the average selling prices and margins for our smartphone products which would have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if carriers move away from subsidizing the purchase of smartphone products, this could significantly reduce the sales or growth rate of sales of smartphone products. This could have an adverse impact on our business, revenues and results of operations. As we build strategic relationships with wireless carriers, we could be exposed to significant fluctuations in revenue for our smartphone products. Because of their large sales channels, wireless carriers may purchase large quantities of our products prior to launch so that the products are widely available. Reorders of products may fluctuate quarter to quarter, depending on end-customer demand and inventory levels required by the carriers. As we develop new strategic relationships and launch new products with wireless carriers, our smartphone products-related revenue could be subject to significant fluctuation based on the timing of carrier product launches, carrier inventory requirements, marketing efforts and our ability to forecast and satisfy carrier and end-customer demand. 16 Table of Contents We are dependent on a concentrated number of significant customers and the loss or credit failure of any of those customers could have an adverse affect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. Our three largest customers in terms of revenue represented 55% of our revenues during fiscal year 2006 compared to our three largest customers representing 34% of our revenues during fiscal year 2005. We determine our largest customers to be those who represent 10% or more of our total revenues. We expect this trend of revenue concentration with our largest customers, particularly with wireless carriers, to continue. If any significant customer discontinues its relationship with us for any reason, or reduces or postpones current or expected purchases from us, it could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operation and financial condition. In addition, our largest customers in terms of outstanding customer accounts receivable balances accounted for 66% of our accounts receivable at the end of fiscal year 2006 and 24% of our accounts receivable at the end of fiscal year 2005. We determine our largest customers to be those who have outstanding customer accounts receivable balances at the period end as 10% or more of our total net accounts receivables. We expect this trend of increased credit concentration with our largest customers, particularly with wireless carriers, to continue, increasing our bad debt risks and the costs of mitigating those risks. We routinely monitor the financial condition of our customers and review the credit history of each new customer. While we believe that our allowances for doubtful accounts adequately reflect the credit risk of our customers, as well as historical trends and other economic factors, we cannot assure you that such allowances will be accurate or sufficient. If any of our significant customers defaults on its account, or if we experience significant credit expense for any reason, it could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to compete effectively with existing or new competitors, we could experience price reductions, reduced demand for our products and services, reduced margins and loss of market share, and our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. The mobile computing device market is highly competitive, and we expect increased competition in the future, particularly as companies from established industry segments, such as mobile handset, personal computer and consumer electronics, enter this market or increasingly expand and market their competitive product offerings or both. Some of our competitors or potential competitors possess capabilities developed over years of serving customers in their respective markets that might enable them to compete more effectively than we compete in certain segments. In addition, many of our competitors have significantly greater engineering, manufacturing, sales, marketing and financial resources and capabilities than we do. These competitors may be able to respond more rapidly than we can to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements, including introducing a greater number and variety of products than we can. They may also devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products. They may have lower costs and be better able to withstand lower prices in order to gain market share at our expense. Finally, these competitors bring with them customer loyalties, which may limit our ability to compete despite superior product offerings. Our devices compete with a variety of mobile devices. Our principal competitors include: mobile handset and smartphone manufacturers such as HTC, Motorola, Nokia, Research in Motion, Samsung and Sony-Ericsson; computing device companies such as Acer, ASUSTek, BenQ, Dell, Hewlett-Packard, Medion and MiTac; consumer electronics companies, such as Garmin, NEC, Sharp Electronics and Yakumo; and a variety of early-stage technology companies. Some of these competitors, such as HTC, produce smartphones as carrier-branded devices in addition to their own branded devices. As technology advances, we also expect to compete with mobile phones without branded operating systems that synchronize with personal computers, as well as ultramobile personal computers and laptop computers with VoIP, and WiFi phones with VoIP. 17 Table of Contents In addition, our devices compete for a share of disposable income and enterprise spending on consumer electronic, telecommunications and computing products such as MP3 players, Apple’s iPods, media/photo viewers, digital cameras, personal media players, digital storage devices, handheld gaming devices, GPS devices and other such devices. Some competitors sell or license server, desktop and/or laptop computing products, software and/or recurring services in addition to mobile computing products and may choose to market their mobile computing products at a discounted price or give them away for free with their other products or services, which could negatively affect our ability to compete. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. They may devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we do. They may also be more diversified than we are and better able to leverage their other businesses, products and services to be able to accept lower returns in the mobile computing device market and gain market share. A number of our competitors have longer and closer relationships with the senior management of enterprise customers who decide which products and technologies will be deployed in their enterprises. Many competitors have larger and more established sales forces calling on carriers and enterprise customers and therefore could contact a greater number of potential customers with more frequency. Consequently, these competitors could have a better competitive position than we do, which could result in carriers and enterprise customers deciding not to choose our products and services, which would adversely impact our revenues. Successful new product introductions or enhancements by our competitors could cause intense price competition or make our products obsolete. To remain competitive, we must continue to invest significant resources in research and development, sales and marketing and customer support. We cannot be sure that we will have sufficient resources to make these investments or that we will be able to make the technological advances necessary to be competitive. Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced demand for our products and services, increased expenses, reduced margins and loss of market share. Failure to compete successfully against current or future competitors could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we do not correctly forecast demand for our products, we could have costly excess production or inventories or we may not be able to secure sufficient or cost effective quantities of our products or production materials and our revenues, cost of revenues and financial condition could be adversely impacted. The demand for our products depends on many factors, including pricing and channel inventory levels, and is difficult to forecast due in part to variations in economic conditions, changes in consumer and enterprise preferences, relatively short product life cycles, changes in competition, seasonality and reliance on key sales channel partners. It is particularly difficult to forecast demand by individual product. Significant unanticipated fluctuations in demand, the timing and disclosure of new product releases or the timing of key sales orders could result in costly excess production or inventories or the inability to secure sufficient, cost-effective quantities of our products or production materials. This could adversely impact our revenues, cost of revenues and financial condition. We rely on third parties to sell and distribute our products, and we rely on their information to manage our business. Disruption of our relationship with these channel partners, changes in their business practices, their failure to provide timely and accurate information or conflicts among our channels of distribution could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The wireless carriers, distributors, retailers and resellers who sell and distribute our products also sell products offered by our competitors. If our competitors offer our sales channel partners more favorable terms or have more products available to meet their needs or utilize the leverage of broader product lines sold through the channel, those wireless carriers, distributors, retailers and resellers may de-emphasize or decline to carry our 18 Table of Contents products. In addition, certain of our sales channel partners could decide to de-emphasize the product categories that we offer in exchange for other product categories that they believe provide higher returns. If we are unable to maintain successful relationships with these sales channel partners or to expand our distribution channels, our business will suffer. Because we sell our products primarily to wireless carriers, distributors, retailers and resellers, we are subject to many risks, including risks related to product returns, either through the exercise of contractual return rights or as a result of our strategic interest in assisting them in balancing inventories. In addition, these sales channel partners could modify their business practices, such as inventory levels, or seek to modify their contractual terms, such as return rights or payment terms. Unexpected changes in product return requests, inventory levels, payment terms or other practices by these sales channel partners could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on wireless carriers, distributors, retailers and resellers to provide us with timely and accurate information about their inventory levels as well as sell-through of products purchased from us. We use this information as one of the factors in our forecasting process to plan future production and sales levels, which in turn influences our public financial forecasts. We also use this information as a factor in determining the levels of some of our financial reserves. If we do not receive this information on a timely and accurate basis, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely impacted. Distributors, retailers and traditional resellers experience competition from Internet-based resellers that distribute directly to end-customers, and there is also competition among Internet-based resellers. We also sell our products directly to end-customers from our Palm.com web site and our Palm stores. These varied sales channels could cause conflict among our channels of distribution, which could harm our business, revenues and results of operations. If our smartphone products do not meet wireless carrier and governmental or regulatory certification requirements, we will not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate revenues will suffer. We are required to certify our smartphone products with governmental and regulatory agencies and with the wireless carriers for use on their networks. The certification process can be time consuming, could delay the offering of our smartphone products on carrier networks and affect our ability to timely deliver products to customers. As a result, carriers may choose to offer, or consumers may choose to buy, similar products from our competitors and thereby reduce their purchases of our products, which would have a negative impact on our smartphone products sales volumes, our revenues and our cost of revenues. We rely on third parties to design, manufacture, distribute, warehouse and support our smartphone and handheld products, and our reputation, revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected if these third parties fail to meet their performance obligations. We outsource most of our hardware design to third party manufacturers, some of whom, such as HTC, compete with us. We depend on their design expertise, and we rely on them to design our products at satisfactory quality levels. If our third party manufacturers fail to provide quality hardware design, our reputation and revenues could suffer. These third party designers and manufacturers have access to our intellectual property which increases the risk of infringement or misappropriation of such intellectual property. In addition, these third parties may claim ownership rights in certain of the intellectual property developed for our products, which may limit our ability to have these products manufactured by others. We outsource all of our manufacturing requirements to third party manufacturers at their international facilities, which are located primarily in China, Taiwan and Brazil. In general our products are manufactured by sole source providers. We depend on these third parties to produce a sufficient volume of our products in a timely fashion and at satisfactory quality levels. In addition, we rely on our third party manufacturers to place orders with suppliers for the components they need to manufacture our products. If they fail to place timely and sufficient orders with suppliers, our revenues and cost of revenues could suffer. Our reliance on third party 19 Table of Contents manufacturers in foreign countries exposes us to risks that are not in our control, including outbreaks of disease (such as an outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS, or bird flu), economic slowdowns, labor disruptions, trade restrictions, political conflicts and other events that could result in quarantines, shutdowns or closures of our third party manufacturers or their suppliers. The cost, quality and availability of third party manufacturing operations are essential to the successful production and sale of our smartphone and handheld products. If our third party manufacturers fail to produce quality products on time and in sufficient quantities, our reputation, business and results of operations could suffer. These manufacturers could refuse to continue to manufacture all or some of the units of our devices that we require or change the terms under which they manufacture our device products. If these manufacturers were to stop manufacturing our devices, we may be unable to replace the lost manufacturing capacity on a timely basis and our results of operations could be harmed. If these manufacturers were to change the terms under which they manufacture for us, our manufacturing costs and cost of revenues could increase. While we may have contractual remedies under manufacturing agreements, our business and reputation could be harmed. In addition, our contractual relationships are principally with the manufacturers of our products, and not with component suppliers. In the absence of a contract with the manufacturer that requires it to obtain and pass through warranty and indemnity rights with respect to component suppliers, we may not have recourse to any third party in the event of a component failure. We may choose from time to time to transition to or add new third party manufacturers. If we transition the manufacturing of any product to a new manufacturer, there is a risk of disruption in manufacturing and revenues and our results of operations could be adversely impacted. The learning curve and implementation associated with adding a new third party manufacturer may adversely impact revenues and our results of operations. We rely on third party distribution and warehouse services providers to warehouse and distribute our products. Our contract warehouse facilities are physically separated from our contract manufacturing locations. This requires additional lead-time to deliver products to customers. If we are shipping products near the end of a fiscal quarter, this extra time could result in us not meeting anticipated shipment volumes for that quarter, which may negatively impact our revenues for that fiscal quarter. As a result of economic conditions or other factors, our distribution and warehouse services providers may close or move their facilities with little notice to us, which could cause disruption in our ability to deliver products. With little or no notice, these distribution and warehouse services providers could refuse to continue to provide distribution and warehouse services for all or some of our devices or change the terms under which they provide such services. Any disruption of distribution and warehouse services could have a negative impact on our revenues and results of operations. Changes in transportation schedules or the timing of deliveries due to shipping problems, carrier financial difficulties, acts of nature or other business interruptions could cause transportation delays and increase our costs for both receipt of inventory and shipment of products to our customers. If these types of disruptions occur, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. We outsource most of the warranty support, product repair and technical support for our products to third party providers, which are located around the world. We depend on their expertise, and we rely on them to provide satisfactory levels of service. If our third party providers fail to provide consistent quality service in a timely manner and sustain customer satisfaction, our reputation and results of operations could suffer. We depend on our suppliers, some of which are the sole source and some of which are our competitors, for certain components, software applications and elements of our technology, and our production or reputation could be harmed if these suppliers were unable or unwilling to meet our demand or technical requirements on a timely and/or a cost-effective basis. Our smartphone and handheld products contain software applications and components, including liquid crystal displays, touch panels, memory chips, microprocessors, cameras, radios and batteries, which are procured 20 Table of Contents from a variety of suppliers, including some who are our competitors. The cost, quality and availability of software applications and components are essential to the successful production and sale of our device products. For example, email applications are critical to the functionality of our smartphone devices. Some components, such as screens and related integrated circuits, digital signal processors, microprocessors, radio frequency components and other discrete components, come from sole source suppliers. Alternative sources are not always available or may be prohibitively expensive. In addition, even when we have multiple qualified suppliers, we may compete with other purchasers for allocation of scarce components. Some components come from companies with whom we compete in the mobile computing device market. If suppliers are unable or unwilling to meet our demand for components and if we are unable to obtain alternative sources or if the price for alternative sources is prohibitive, our ability to maintain timely and cost-effective production of our smartphone and handheld products will be harmed. Shortages affect the timing and volume of production for some of our products as well as increasing our costs due to premium prices paid for those components. Some of our suppliers may be capacity-constrained due to high industry demand for some components and relatively long lead times to expand capacity. Our product strategy is substantially dependent on the Palm OS, which is owned by PalmSource, a former subsidiary of Palm that was acquired by Access Co., Ltd. We have a license agreement with PalmSource which extends through December 2, 2009. Our license of the Palm OS from PalmSource is critical to the operation of many of our products. We rely on PalmSource to provide the operating system for all of our handheld and a significant portion of our smartphone products. PalmSource was acquired by Access Co., Ltd., bringing the Palm OS under new management and control. While we began shipping, in January 2006, a product which utilizes Microsoft’s Windows Mobile operating system, most of our products remain based on the Palm OS. Termination of the Palm OS license, an adverse change in our relationship with PalmSource or Access, failure by PalmSource and Access to supply a competitive platform, retain employees or otherwise remain viable, or an unfavorable outcome in any material lawsuit involving the Palm OS, could harm our business. Additionally, we are contractually obligated to make a minimum annual payment to PalmSource for the contract year ending December 2, 2006, regardless of the volume of devices we sell containing the Palm OS. Contemporaneously with the license agreement, we entered into a co-development agreement with PalmSource to develop a next-generation Palm OS for use in future Palm products. PalmSource did not timely meet certain of the milestones under the co-development agreement, relieving us of our obligation to make minimum royalty payments under the license agreement after calendar year 2006. We are presently in negotiations with PalmSource to expand our development and distribution rights to the current version of the Palm OS. If we are unable to successfully conclude these negotiations, it may adversely affect our ability to develop and distribute new products based on a next-generation version of the Palm OS. Regardless, we will continue to release new products based on the current version of the Palm OS. Our business could also be harmed if: · we were to breach the license agreement and PalmSource terminated the license; · PalmSource and Access do not continuously upgrade the Palm OS and otherwise maintain the competitiveness of the Palm OS platform; · our Palm OS-based devices drop in volume, yet we still owe PalmSource minimum royalties under the license agreement; or · our products on Microsoft’s Windows Mobile operating system, or our development of other devices on the Microsoft or any other operating system, impacts our volumes of Palm OS-based devices, impacts the perception of the Palm OS’s viability in the market or affects our relationship with PalmSource and Access, which could cause a deterioration of our volume of Palm OS-based devices. We cannot be certain that the Palm OS or other PalmSource intellectual property important to our business will not eventually fall to a company less strategically aligned with us than PalmSource and Access. While our 21 Table of Contents license and other agreements with PalmSource include certain protections for us if PalmSource or Access is acquired, these protections may not be adequate to fully protect our interests, which may reduce our ability to compete in the marketplace and cause us to incur significant costs. Other than the restrictions on the use of certain trademarks and domain names, nothing prohibits PalmSource or Access from competing with Palm or offering the PalmSource operating system to competitors of Palm. Palm and either PalmSource or Access may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts that may arise between us, which may damage our relationship with PalmSource or Access. Although PalmSource generally indemnifies us for damages arising from lawsuits involving the Palm OS, and from damages relating to intellectual property infringement by the Palm OS that occurred prior to the spin-off of PalmSource from Palm, we could still be adversely affected by a determination adverse to PalmSource as a result of market uncertainty, or product changes that may be advisable or required due to such lawsuits, or the failure of PalmSource or Access to adequately indemnify us. If we are unable to obtain key technologies from third parties on a timely basis and free from errors or defects, we may have to delay or cancel the release of certain products or features in our products or incur increased costs. We license third-party software for use in our smartphone and handheld products, including the operating systems. Our ability to release and sell our products, as well as our reputation, could be harmed if the third-party technologies are not delivered to us in a timely manner, on acceptable business terms or contain errors or defects that are not discovered and fixed prior to release of our products and we are unable to obtain alternative technologies on a timely and cost effective basis to use in our products. As a result, our product shipments could be delayed, our offering of features could be reduced or we may need to divert our development resources from other business objectives, any of which could adversely affect our reputation, business and results of operations. Our product strategy is substantially dependent on our ability to differentiate the operating systems that we include in our mobile computing devices. Many of our products, including all of our handheld computing products, have historically been and continue to be dependent on the competitiveness of the Palm OS platform. We originally developed the Palm OS before spinning it off into a separate company, PalmSource, in 2003. We continued to innovate and customize the version of the Palm OS that we licensed from PalmSource. The Palm OS allows us to differentiate our products from the products of most of our competitors. We cannot assure you that the Palm OS and/or our efforts to customize the Palm OS will continue to draw the customer interest necessary for the Palm OS to provide us with a level of competitive differentiation. In the past year, we introduced our first smartphone based on a version of Microsoft’s Windows Mobile OS on which we had licensed a right to customize and differentiate our users’ experience. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain this unique relationship with Microsoft, that Microsoft will not grant similar rights to our competitors or that we will be able to sufficiently differentiate our smartphones from the multitude of other devices based on the Windows Mobile OS. In addition, there is significant competition in the operating system software and services market, including proprietary operating systems such as Symbian, open source operating systems, such as Linux, other proprietary operating systems and other software technologies, such as Java and RIM’s licensed technology. This competition is being developed and promoted by competitors and potential competitors, some of which have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have, such as Access, Motorola, Nokia, Sony-Ericsson and RIM. These competitors could provide additional or better functionality than we do or may be able to respond more rapidly than we can to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements. Competitors in this market could devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products and services and the third-party developer community, which could attract the attention of influential user segments. 22 Table of Contents If we are unable to continue to differentiate the operating systems that we include in our mobile computing devices, our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected. The market for smartphone and handheld products is volatile, and changing market conditions, or failure to adjust to changing market conditions, may adversely affect our revenues, results of operations and financial condition, particularly given our size, limited resources and lack of diversification. We operate in the mobile computing device market which includes both smartphone and handheld products. Over the last few years, we have seen year-over-year declines in the volume of handheld devices while demand for smartphone devices has increased. Although we are the leading provider of handheld products and while we intend to maintain this leadership position, we continue to shift our investment towards smartphone products in response to forecasted market demand trends. We cannot assure you that declines in the volume of handheld device units will not continue or that the growth of smartphone devices will offset any decline in handheld device sales. If we are unable to adequately respond to changes in demand for smartphone and handheld products, our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, as our products and product categories mature and face greater competition, we may experience pressure on our product pricing to preserve demand for our products, which would adversely affect our margins, results of operations and financial condition. This reliance on the success of and trends in our industry is compounded by the size of our organization and our focus on smartphone and handheld products. These factors also make us more dependent on investments of our limited resources. For example, we face many resource allocation decisions, such as: where to focus our research and development, geographic sales and marketing and partnering efforts; which aspects of our business to outsource; which operating systems and email solutions to support; and the balance between our smartphone and handheld products. Our smartphone products-related revenue grew to approximately 69% of our total revenue during fiscal year 2006 from approximately 46% of our total revenue during fiscal year 2005, causing us to shift the focus of a large portion of our engineering resources towards the smartphone opportunity as well as hire and integrate new employees. Given the size and undiversified nature of our organization, any error in investment strategy could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on third parties to manage and operate our e-commerce web store and related telesales call center, and disruption to this sales channel could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. We outsource the operations of our e-commerce web store and related telesales call centers to third parties. We depend on their expertise and rely on them to provide satisfactory levels of service. If these third party providers fail to provide consistent quality service in a timely manner and sustain customer satisfaction, our e-commerce web store and revenues could suffer. If these third parties were to stop providing these services, we may be unable to replace them on a timely basis and our e-commerce web store and results of operations could be harmed. In addition, if these third parties were to change the terms and conditions under which they provide these services, our selling costs could increase. Third parties have claimed, and may claim in the future, that we are infringing their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling products regardless of whether these claims are successful. In the course of our business, we frequently receive claims of infringement or otherwise become aware of potentially relevant patents or other intellectual property rights held by other parties. For example, as our focus has shifted to smartphone products, we have received, and expect to continue to receive communications from holders of patents related to GSM, GPRS, CDMA and other mobile communication standards. We evaluate the validity and applicability of these intellectual property rights, and determine in each case whether we must negotiate licenses to incorporate or use the proprietary technologies in our products. Third parties may claim that our customers or we are infringing or contributing to the infringement of their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to infringe or contribute to the infringement of those intellectual property rights and may be required to pay significant damages and obligated either to refrain from the further sale of our products or to 23 Table of Contents license the right to sell our products on an ongoing basis. We may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology, products and services. We may not have contractual relationships with some of the software and applications providers for our products, including some software and applications provided with our products, and as a result, we may not have indemnification, warranties or other protection with respect to such software or applications. Furthermore, claims against us or our suppliers may cause us or our customers to delay the introduction of or to stop using our devices or applications for our devices and, as a result, our revenues, business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time consuming and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. The complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of litigation generally increase the risks associated with intellectual property litigation. Moreover, patent litigation has increased due to the increased numbers of cases asserted by intellectual property licensing entities as well as increasing competition and overlap of product functionality in our markets. Claims of intellectual property infringement may also require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements or to indemnify our customers. However, we may not be able to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us or at all. We also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against the development and sale of our products. We are subject to general commercial litigation and other litigation claims as part of our operations, and we could suffer significant litigation expenses in defending these claims and could be subject to significant damage awards or other remedies. In the course of our business, we receive consumer protection claims, general commercial claims related to the conduct of our business and the performance of our products and services, employment claims and other litigation claims. Any litigation resulting from these claims could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. The complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of consumer, commercial, employment and other litigation increase these risks. We also may be subject to significant damages or equitable remedies regarding the development and sale of our products and operation of our business. Our products are subject to increasingly stringent laws, standards and other regulatory requirements, and the costs of compliance or failure to comply may adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our products must comply with a variety of laws, standards and other requirements governing, among other things, safety, materials usage, packaging and environmental impacts and must obtain regulatory approvals and satisfy other regulatory concerns in the various jurisdictions where our products are sold. Many of our products must meet standards governing, among other things, interference with other electronic equipment and human exposure to electromagnetic radiation. Failure to comply with such requirements can subject us to liability, additional costs and reputational harm and in severe cases prevent us from selling our products in certain jurisdictions. For example, many of our products are subject to laws and regulations that restrict the use of lead and other substances and require producers of electrical and electronic equipment to assume responsibility for collecting, treating, recycling and disposing of our products when they have reached the end of their useful life. In Europe, substance restrictions began to apply to the products we sell on July 1, 2006, and new recycling, labeling, financing and related requirements came into effect with respect to certain of our products in August 2005. Failure to comply with applicable environmental requirements can result in fines, civil or criminal sanctions and third-party claims. If products we sell in Europe after July 1, 2006 are found to contain more than the permitted percentage of lead or another listed substance, it is possible that we could be forced to recall the products, which could lead to substantial replacement costs, contract damage claims from customers, and reputational harm. We are now and expect in the future to become subject to similar requirements in the United States, China and other parts of the world. 24 Table of Contents As a result of these new European requirements and anticipated developments elsewhere, we are now facing increasingly complex procurement and design challenges, which, among other things, require us to incur additional costs identifying suppliers and contract manufacturers who can provide, and otherwise obtain, compliant materials, parts and end products and re-designing products so that they comply with these and the many other requirements applicable to them. Allegations of health risks associated with electromagnetic fields and wireless communications devices, and the lawsuits and publicity relating to them, regardless of merit, could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. There has been public speculation about possible health risks to individuals from exposure to electromagnetic fields, or radio signals, from base stations and from the use of mobile devices. While a substantial amount of scientific research by various independent research bodies has indicated that these radio signals, at levels within the limits prescribed by public health authority standards and recommendations, present no evidence of adverse effect to human health, we cannot assure you that future studies, regardless of their scientific basis, will not suggest a link between electromagnetic fields and adverse health effects. Government agencies, international health organizations and other scientific bodies are currently conducting research into these issues. In addition, other mobile device companies have been named in individual plaintiff and class action lawsuits alleging that radio emissions from mobile phones have caused or contributed to brain tumors and the use of mobile phones pose a health risk. Although our products are certified as meeting applicable public health authority safety standards and recommendations, even a perceived risk of adverse health effects from wireless communications devices could adversely impact use of wireless communications devices or subject us to costly litigation and could harm our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. Our success largely depends on our ability to hire, retain, integrate and motivate sufficient numbers of qualified personnel, including senior management. Our strategy and our ability to innovate, design and produce new products, sell products, maintain operating margins and control expenses depend on key personnel that may be difficult to replace. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel, including senior management. Over the past twelve months, we have experienced turnover in some of our senior management positions. We filled most of these positions and are actively recruiting to fill the remainder. We compensate our employees through a combination of salary, bonuses, benefits and equity compensation. Recruiting and retaining skilled personnel, including software and hardware engineers, is highly competitive, particularly in the San Francisco Bay Area where we are headquartered. If we fail to provide competitive compensation to our employees, it will be difficult to retain, hire and integrate qualified employees and contractors and we may not be able to maintain and expand our business. If we do not retain our senior managers or other key employees for any reason, we risk losing institutional knowledge and experience, expertise and other benefits of continuity. In addition, we must carefully balance the growth of our employee base with our current infrastructure, management resources and anticipated revenue growth. For example, we moved into, invested in and committed ourselves to a six-year headquarters lease and have recently executed a new five year, nine month lease for an additional facility which we will be investing in and occupying shortly, but our currently leased space may not be adequate for our needs over the full term of these leases. If we are unable to manage the growth of our employee base, particularly software and hardware engineers, we may fail to develop and introduce new products successfully and in a cost effective and timely manner. If our revenue growth or employee levels vary significantly, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price may also affect our ability to retain key employees, all of whom have been granted stock options, other equity incentives or both. Palm’s practice has been to provide incentives to all of its employees through the use of broad-based stock option plans, but the number of shares available for new option grants is limited and new accounting rules from the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, and other agencies concerning the expensing of stock 25 Table of Contents options, which will require us and other companies to record substantial charges to earnings, may cause us to re-evaluate our use of stock options as an employee incentive. Therefore, we may find it difficult to provide competitive stock option grants or other equity incentives and our ability to hire, retain and motivate key personnel may suffer. If third parties infringe our intellectual property or if we are unable to secure and protect our intellectual property, we may expend significant resources enforcing our rights or suffer competitive injury. Our success depends in large part on our proprietary technology and other intellectual property rights. In 2005, we made a significant investment in acquiring the rights to the Palm and related trademarks and will continue to invest in that brand and in our patent portfolio. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. Our intellectual property, particularly our patents, may not provide us a significant competitive advantage. If we fail to protect or to enforce our intellectual property rights successfully, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our results of operations. Our pending patent and trademark applications for registration may not be allowed, or others may challenge the validity or scope of our patents or trademarks, including patent or trademark applications or registrations. Even if our patents or trademark registrations are issued and maintained, these patents or trademarks may not be of adequate scope or benefit to us or may be held invalid and unenforceable against third parties. We may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and police our intellectual property rights. Effective policing of the unauthorized use of our products or intellectual property is difficult and litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights. Intellectual property litigation is not only expensive, but time-consuming, regardless of the merits of any claim, and could divert attention of our management from operating the business. Despite our efforts, we may not be able to detect infringement and may lose competitive position in the market before we do so. In addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. Intellectual property rights may also be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries, which could make it easier for competitors to capture market share. In the past, there have been leaks of proprietary information associated with our intellectual property. We have implemented a security plan to reduce the risk of future leaks of proprietary information. We may not be successful in preventing those responsible for past leaks of proprietary information from using our technology to produce competing products or in preventing future leaks of proprietary information. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, existing laws, contractual provisions and remedies afford only limited protection. Intellectual property lawsuits are subject to inherent uncertainties due to, among other things, the complexity of the technical issues involved, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in asserting intellectual property claims. Attempts may be made to copy or reverse engineer aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to protect our proprietary rights against unauthorized third party copying or use. The unauthorized use of our technology or of our proprietary information by competitors could have an adverse effect on our ability to sell our products. We have an international presence in countries whose laws may not provide protection of our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, which may make it more difficult for us to protect our intellectual property. As part of our business strategy, we target customers and relationships with suppliers and original distribution manufacturers in countries with large populations and propensities for adopting new technologies. 26 Table of Contents However, many of these countries do not address misappropriation of intellectual property or deter others from developing similar, competing technologies or intellectual property. Effective protection of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries. In particular, the laws of some foreign countries in which we do business may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. As a result, we may not be able to effectively prevent competitors in these regions from infringing our intellectual property rights, which would reduce our competitive advantage and ability to compete in those regions and negatively impact our business. We may pursue strategic acquisitions and investments which could have an adverse impact on our business if they are unsuccessful. We have made acquisitions in the past and will continue to evaluate other acquisition opportunities that could provide us with additional product or service offerings or with additional industry expertise, assets and capabilities. Acquisitions could result in difficulties integrating acquired operations, products, technology, internal controls, personnel and management teams and result in the diversion of capital and management’s attention away from other business issues and opportunities. If we fail to successfully integrate acquisitions, including timely integration of internal controls to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our business could be harmed. In addition, our acquisitions may not be successful in achieving our desired strategic objectives, which would also cause our business to suffer. Acquisitions can also lead to large non-cash charges that can have an adverse effect on our results of operations as a result of write-offs for items such as acquired in-process research and development, impairment of goodwill or the recording of stock-based compensation. In addition, from time to time we make strategic venture investments in other companies that provide products and services that are complementary to ours. If these investments are unsuccessful, this could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to utilize our net operating losses may be limited if we engage in transactions which bring cumulative change in ownership for Palm to 50% or more. As a result of the acquisition of Handspring in October 2003, we experienced a change in our ownership of approximately 30%. If over a rolling three-year period, the cumulative change in our ownership exceeds 50%, our ability to utilize our net operating losses to offset future taxable income may be limited. This would limit the net operating loss available to offset taxable income each year following the cumulative change in our ownership over 50%. In the event the usage of these net operating losses is subject to limitation and we are profitable, our earnings and cash flows could be adversely impacted due to our increased tax liability. Changes in financial accounting standards or practices may cause unexpected fluctuations in and adversely affect our reported results of operations. Any change in financial accounting standards or practices that cause us to change the methodology or procedures by which we track, calculate, record and report our results of operations or financial condition or both could cause fluctuations in and adversely affect our reported results of operations and cause our historical financial information to not be reliable as an indicator of future results. For example, in December 2004, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS No. 123(R), which requires companies to apply a fair-value-based measurement method in accounting for share-based payment transactions with employees and to record compensation cost for all stock awards granted after the required date of adoption and to awards modified, repurchased, or cancelled after that date. In addition, the Company is required to record compensation expense for the unvested portion of previously granted awards that remain outstanding at the date of adoption as such previous awards continue to vest. SFAS No. 123(R) will be effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005, which is Palm’s fiscal year 2007. The adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) is expected to have a material impact on our results of operations. Management currently estimates a charge to earnings before income taxes between $34 million to $38 million in fiscal year 2007. If investors attempt to compare our results with the results of other companies, our company and valuation may appear less attractive, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 27 Table of Contents We may need or find it advisable to seek additional funding which may not be available or which may result in substantial dilution of the value of our common stock. We currently believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated cash requirements for at least the next 12 months. We could be required to seek additional funding if our expectations are not met. Even if our expectations are met, we may find it advisable to seek additional funding. If we seek additional funding, adequate funds may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, or at all, we may be unable to adequately fund our business plans and it could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if funds are available, the issuance of equity securities or securities convertible into equity could dilute the value of shares of our common stock and cause the market price to fall and the issuance of debt securities could impose restrictive covenants that could impair our ability to engage in certain business transactions. Our future results could be harmed by economic, political, regulatory and other risks associated with international sales and operations. Because we sell our products worldwide and most of the facilities where our devices are manufactured, distributed and supported are located outside the United States, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, such as: · changes in foreign currency exchange rates; · changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions, particularly in emerging markets; · changes in international relations; · trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; · changes in tax laws; · compliance with a wide variety of laws and regulations which may have civil and/or criminal consequences for us and our officers and directors who we indemnify; · difficulty in managing widespread sales operations; and · difficulty in managing a geographically dispersed workforce in compliance with diverse local laws and customs. In addition, we are subject to changes in demand for our products resulting from exchange rate fluctuations that make our products relatively more or less expensive in international markets. If exchange rate fluctuations occur, our business and results of operations could be harmed by decreases in demand for our products or reductions in margins. While we sell our products worldwide, one component of our strategy is to expand our sales efforts in China, India and other countries with large populations and propensities for adopting new technologies. We have limited experience with sales and marketing in some of these countries. There can be no assurance that we will be able to market and sell our products in all of our targeted international markets. If our international efforts are not successful, our business growth and results of operations could be harmed. We use third parties to provide significant operational and administrative services, and our ability to satisfy our customers and operate our business will suffer if the level of services is interrupted or does not meet our requirements. We use third parties to provide services such as data center operations, desktop computer support and facilities services. Should any of these third parties fail to deliver an adequate level of service on a timely basis, our business 28 Table of Contents could suffer. Some of our operations rely on electronic data systems interfaces with third parties or on the Internet to communicate information. Interruptions in the availability and functionality of systems interfaces or the Internet could adversely impact the operations of these systems and consequently our results of operations. Business interruptions could adversely affect our business. Our operations and those of our suppliers and customers are vulnerable to interruption by fire, hurricanes, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failure, computer viruses, computer hackers, terrorist attacks, wars, military activity, labor disruptions, health epidemics and other natural disasters and events beyond our control. For example, a significant part of our third-party manufacturing is based in Taiwan that has experienced earthquakes and is considered seismically active. In addition, the business interruption insurance we carry may not be sufficient to compensate us fully for losses or damages—including, for example, loss of market share and diminution of our brand, reputation and customer loyalty—that may occur as a result of such events. Any such losses or damages incurred by us could have an adverse effect on our business. Wars, terrorist attacks or other threats beyond our control could negatively impact consumer confidence, which could harm our operating results. Wars, terrorist attacks or other threats beyond our control could have an adverse impact on the United States and world economy in general, and consumer confidence and spending in particular, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We own land that is not currently being utilized in our business. If our expected ability to ultimately recover the carrying value of this land is impaired, we would incur a non-cash charge against our results of operations. We own approximately 39 acres of land in San Jose, California which we do not plan to develop. In the third quarter of fiscal year 2003, we reported an impairment charge to adjust the carrying cost of the land to its then current fair market value. We have entered into an agreement for the sale of this land, which has several conditions which have not yet been met. If this sale is not completed, a future sale or other disposition of the land at less than its carrying value, or a further deterioration in market values that impacts our expected recoverable value, would result in a non-cash charge which would negatively impact our results of operations. Our historical financial information may not be reliable as an indicator of future results due to the spin-off of PalmSource and the acquisition of Handspring. In addition, charges to earnings resulting from the application of the purchase method of accounting may adversely affect our results of operations. The historical financial information for Palm, which includes results of the PalmSource business as discontinued operations, does not necessarily reflect what Palm’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows would have been had the PalmSource business not been a part of Palm during historical periods. In accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, we accounted for the acquisition of Handspring using the purchase method of accounting. Under the purchase method of accounting, we allocated the total purchase price to Handspring’s net tangible assets and amortizable intangible assets, based on their fair values as of the effective date of the acquisition of Handspring, and recorded the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. To the extent the value of goodwill becomes impaired, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets that may adversely affect our results of operations. PalmSource may be required to indemnify us for tax liabilities we may incur in connection with the distribution of PalmSource common stock to our stockholders, and we may be required to indemnify PalmSource for specified taxes. We received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, to the effect that the distribution of the shares of PalmSource common stock held by us to our stockholders would not be taxable to 29 Table of Contents our U.S. stockholders or us. This ruling is generally binding on the IRS, subject to the continuing accuracy of certain factual representations and warranties. Although some facts have changed since the issuance of the ruling, in the opinion of our tax counsel these changes will not adversely affect us. We are not aware of any material change in the facts and circumstances of the distribution that would call into question the validity of the ruling. Notwithstanding the receipt of the ruling described above, the distribution may nonetheless be taxable to us under Section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, if 50% or more of our stock or PalmSource stock is acquired as part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the PalmSource distribution. Under the tax sharing agreement between PalmSource and us, PalmSource would be required to indemnify us if the sale of PalmSource’s common stock caused the distribution of PalmSource’s common stock to be taxable to us. In addition, under the tax sharing agreement, Palm has agreed to indemnify PalmSource for certain taxes and similar obligations that PalmSource could incur under certain circumstances. PalmSource may not be able to adequately satisfy its indemnification obligation under the tax sharing agreement. Finally, although under the tax sharing agreement PalmSource is required to indemnify us for taxes of PalmSource, we may be held jointly and severally liable for taxes determined on a consolidated basis. Risks Related to the Securities Markets and Ownership of Our Common Stock Our common stock price may be subject to significant fluctuations and volatility. The market price of our common stock has been subject to significant fluctuations since the date of our initial public offering. These fluctuations could continue. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are: · quarterly variations in our operating results; · changes in revenues or earnings estimates or publication of research reports by analysts; · speculation in the press or investment community; · strategic actions by us, our customers, our suppliers or our competitors, such as new product announcements, acquisitions or restructurings; · actions by institutional stockholders or financial analysts; · general market conditions; and · domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance. The stock markets in general, and the markets for high technology stocks in particular, have experienced high volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law and our adoption of a stockholder rights plan may delay or prevent acquisition of us, which could decrease the value of shares of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our Board of Directors. These provisions include a classified Board of Directors and limitations on actions by our stockholders by written consent. Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. In addition, our Board of Directors has the right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer. Although we believe these provisions provide for an opportunity to receive a higher bid by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. 30 Table of Contents Our Board of Directors adopted a stockholder rights plan, pursuant to which we declared and paid a dividend of one right for each share of common stock outstanding as of November 6, 2000. Unless redeemed by us prior to the time the rights are exercised, upon the occurrence of certain events, the rights will entitle the holders to receive upon exercise of the rights shares of our preferred stock, or shares of an acquiring entity, having a value equal to twice the then-current exercise price of the right. The issuance of the rights could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 