Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks. Some of these risks are described below, and you should take such risks into account in evaluating us or any investment decision involving our Company. This section does not describe all risks that may be applicable to us, our industry or our business, and it is intended only as a summary of certain material risk factors. More detailed information concerning the risk factors described below is contained in other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS We are subject to ongoing governmental investigations which could require us to pay substantial fines or other penalties or otherwise have a material adverse effect on us. We and certain of our former executive officers, directors and other employees are currently subject to investigations by the SEC and the United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York. While we are cooperating with each of these investigations, adverse developments in connection with the investigations, including any expansion of the scope of the investigations, could negatively impact us and could divert the efforts and attention of our management team from our ordinary business operations. In connection with these investigations, it is possible that we will be required to pay criminal or civil fines, consent to injunctions on future conduct or suffer other penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” for a more detailed description of these investigations. Our potential indemnification obligations and limitations of our director and officer liability insurance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. As discussed elsewhere herein, several of our former directors, officers and employees are the subject of criminal, administrative and civil investigations and lawsuits. Under North Carolina law, our bylaws and certain indemnification agreements, we may have an obligation to indemnify our former officers and directors in relation to these matters. Some of these indemnification obligations would be covered by certain insurers under applicable directors’ and officers’ liability policies. In connection with the settlement of the securities class action and the partial settlement of the derivative litigation described below under Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” however, we have agreed with these insurers to limit our claims for reimbursement for legal fees and costs incurred in connection with those proceedings, and the related criminal and administrative investigations, to a specified reserve fund in the amount of $3.4 million (which currently has approximately $1.4 million remaining). Two of our former officers have agreed to limit their claims for indemnity from us in connection with these investigations to a portion of the amount deposited into the reserve fund. This portion is not available to us for our claims for reimbursement of the legal fees and costs described above. If the sums provided for in this fund are not sufficient to provide for reimbursement to us or if we incur significant uninsured indemnity obligations, our indemnity obligations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, counsel for the plaintiffs in several settled shareholder derivative actions have deferred their application for fees until conclusion of the derivative actions and there can be no assurance as to the amount that we will be required to pay to such counsel or whether the remaining reserve fund at such time will be sufficient to reimburse us for such amount. We have experienced declines in revenues and have incurred net losses in each of the last three fiscal years and may experience further declines and losses in the future. We incurred net losses of $135.8 million, $42.2 million and $67.1 million in fiscal 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively. We also experienced a decline in revenues in each of the last three fiscal years. The revenue decline reflects fewer Company stores in operation, a decline in domestic royalty revenues and in sales of mixes and other ingredients resulting from lower sales by the Company’s domestic franchisees. Lower revenues have adversely affected operating margins because of the fixed or semi-fixed nature of many of our direct operating expenses. In addition, we have recorded significant asset impairment charges, principally related to underperforming Company stores and, in fiscal 2008, a manufacturing and distribution facility we divested. Total impairment charges and lease termination costs for fiscal 2008 were $62.1 million. We may experience further revenue declines, asset impairments and net losses in the future. 14 Store profitability is sensitive to changes in sales volume. Each factory store has significant fixed or semi-fixed costs, and margins and profitability are significantly affected by doughnut production volume and sales. While our average weekly sales per store have risen over the past three years, the improvement has been driven principally by the closure of underperforming locations. We are in the process of reevaluating our business and have taken steps to improve our sales. There can be no assurance, however, that these steps will produce the desired results. Because significant fixed and semi-fixed costs prevent us from reducing our operating expenses in proportion with declining sales, our earnings are negatively impacted if sales decline. A number of factors have historically affected, and will continue to affect, our sales results, including, among other factors: Consumer trends; Our ability to execute our business strategy effectively; Competition; General regional and national economic conditions; and Weather conditions. Changes in our sales results could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. We rely in part on our franchisees. Disputes with our franchisees, or failures by our franchisees to operate successfully, to develop or finance new stores or build them on suitable sites or open them on schedule, could adversely affect our growth and our operating results. Area developers and associates, which are all independent contractors and not Krispy Kreme employees, contributed (including through purchases from KK Supply Chain) approximately 29% of our total revenues in fiscal 2008. We rely in part on these area developers and associates and the manner in which they operate their locations to develop and promote our business. We occasionally have disputes with franchisees. Future disputes could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We provide training and support to area developers and associates, but the quality of franchised store operations may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control. The failure of our area developers and associates to operate franchises successfully could have a material adverse effect on us, our reputation and our brands and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, although we do not control our franchisees and they operate as independent contractors, actions taken by any of our franchisees may be seen by the public as actions taken by us, which, in turn could adversely affect our reputation or brands. Reduced access to financing by our franchisees on reasonable terms could adversely affect our future operations by leading to additional store closures by our franchisees, which would in turn reduce our franchise revenues and KK Supply Chain revenues. Most area development agreements specify a schedule for opening stores in the territory covered by the agreement. These schedules form the basis for our expectations regarding the number and timing of new Krispy Kreme store openings. In the past, Krispy Kreme has agreed to extend or modify development schedules for certain area developers and may do so in the future. Several franchisees have been experiencing financial pressures which, in certain instances, became more exacerbated during fiscal 2008. We have guaranteed certain obligations of franchisees in which we have an equity interest. Financial pressures on these franchisees increase the likelihood that we would be required to perform under these guarantees. In fiscal 2008, two of our other franchisees filed for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. Franchisees closed 26 stores in fiscal 2008. We believe franchisees will close additional stores in the future, and the number of such closures may be significant. Royalty revenues and most of KK Supply Chain revenues are directly correlated to sales by franchise stores and, accordingly, franchise store closures have an adverse effect on our revenues, results of operations and cash flows. 15 A portion of our growth strategy depends on opening new Krispy Kreme stores internationally. Our ability to expand our store base is influenced by factors beyond our and our franchisees’ control, which may slow store development and impair our strategy. As we work to stabilize our operations and to refine our store format for new domestic stores, we do not expect that we or our franchisees will open a significant number of domestic factory stores in the near future, although we plan to begin construction of a limited number of Company-operated satellite stores in fiscal 2009, and domestic franchisees also may open satellite stores. Our recent growth strategy has depended on the opening of new Krispy Kreme stores internationally. Our ability to expand our store base both domestically and internationally is influenced by factors beyond our and our franchisees’ control, which may slow store development and impair our strategy. The success of these new stores will be dependent in part on a number of factors, which neither we nor our franchisees can control. Our new domestic store operating model and refranchising strategy may not be successful. We are working to refine our domestic store operating model to focus on a “hub and spoke” system, under which multiple satellite stores in a market are provided doughnuts from a single traditional factory store or commissary at which all doughnut production for the market takes place. Because the hub and spoke concept has not been completely refined, we do not expect that the Company or its franchisees will open a significant number of domestic factory stores in the near future. In addition, we cannot predict whether this new model will be successful in increasing our profitability. In addition, we are developing a strategy to refranchise certain geographic markets. Because we have not completed the development of our detailed refranchising plans and have not entered into any new domestic franchise agreements in several years, we cannot predict the likelihood of refranchising any such markets or the amount of any proceeds which might be received therefrom, including the amounts which might be realized from the sale of store assets and the execution of any related franchise agreements. Refranchising could result in the recognition of impairment losses on the related assets. Currency, economic, political and other risks associated with our international operations could adversely affect our operating results. As of February 3, 2008, there were 204 Krispy Kreme stores operated outside of the United States. Such operations are transacted in the respective local currency. Amounts payable to us by our international franchisees are based on a conversion of the royalties and other fees to U.S. dollars using the prevailing exchange rate. In particular, the royalties are based on a percentage of net sales generated by our foreign franchisees’ operations. Our revenues from international franchisees are exposed to the potentially adverse effects of our franchisees’ operations, currency exchange rates, local economic conditions, political instability and other risks associated with doing business in foreign countries. To the extent that the portion of our revenues generated from international operations increases in the future, our exposure to changes in foreign economic conditions and currency fluctuations will increase. In connection with our international operations, we typically export our products, principally our doughnut mixes and doughnut mix concentrates, to our franchisees in markets outside the United States. Numerous government regulations apply to both the export of food products from the United States as well as the import of food products into other countries. If one or more of the ingredients in our products are banned, alternative ingredients would need to be found. Although we intend to be proactive in addressing any product ingredient issues, such requirements may delay our ability to open stores in other countries in accordance with our desired schedule. Our profitability is sensitive to changes in the cost of raw materials. Although we utilize forward purchase contracts and futures contracts and options on such contracts to mitigate the risks related to commodity price fluctuations, such contracts do not fully mitigate commodity price risk, particularly over the longer term. In addition, the portion of our anticipated future commodity requirements that is subject to such contracts varies from time to time. 16 Flour and shortening are our two most significant raw materials. The prices of wheat and soybean oil, which are the principal components of flour and shortening respectively, reached record highs in fiscal 2008 and have continued to rise in fiscal 2009. Continued high prices or further adverse changes in commodity prices could adversely affect our profitability and liquidity and that of our franchisees. We are the exclusive supplier of doughnut mixes, other key ingredients and flavors to all domestic Krispy Kreme Company stores. If we have any problems supplying these ingredients, our and our franchisees’ ability to make doughnuts will be negatively affected. In addition, changes in vendor credit terms could adversely affect our profitability and liquidity. We are the exclusive supplier of doughnut mixes and other key ingredients and flavors to all domestic Company stores and most domestic franchise stores. We supply the doughnut mixes and other key ingredients and flavors out of our mix manufacturing facility located in Winston-Salem, North Carolina. Although we have a backup source to manufacture our doughnut mixes in the event of the loss of our Winston-Salem plant, we do not have a contract with that source and its facilities do not regularly produce our doughnut mixes. Any interruption of existing or planned production capacity at our manufacturing plants could impede our ability or that of our franchisees to make doughnuts. In addition, in the event that any of our supplier relationships terminate unexpectedly, even where we have multiple suppliers for the same ingredient, we may not be able to obtain adequate quantities of the same high-quality ingredient at competitive prices. We are the only manufacturer of our doughnut-making equipment. If we have any problems producing this equipment, our stores’ ability to make doughnuts will be negatively affected. We manufacture our custom doughnut-making equipment in one facility in Winston-Salem, North Carolina. Although we have limited backup sources for the production of our equipment, obtaining new equipment quickly in the event of the loss of our Winston-Salem plant would be difficult and would jeopardize our ability to supply equipment to new stores or new parts for the maintenance of existing equipment in established stores on a timely basis. We have only one supplier of glaze flavoring, and any interruption in supply could impair our ability to make our signature hot Original Glazed® doughnut. We utilize a sole supplier for our glaze flavoring. Any interruption in the distribution from our current supplier could affect our ability to produce our signature hot Original Glazed® doughnut. We are subject to franchise laws and regulations that govern our status as a franchisor and regulate some aspects of our franchise relationships. Our ability to develop new franchised stores and to enforce contractual rights against franchisees may be adversely affected by these laws and regulations, which could cause our franchise revenues to decline. We, as a franchisor, are subject to both regulation by the FTC and state laws regulating the offer and sale of franchises. Our failure to obtain or maintain approvals to offer franchises would cause us to lose franchise revenues and KK Supply Chain revenues. In addition, state laws that regulate substantive aspects of our relationships with franchisees may limit our ability to terminate or otherwise resolve conflicts with our franchisees. Because we plan to grow primarily through franchising, any impairment of our ability to develop new franchise stores will negatively affect us and our growth strategy. Off-premises sales represent a significant portion of our sales. The infrastructure necessary to support off-premises sales results in significant fixed and semi-fixed costs. Also, the loss of one of our large wholesale customers could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The Company operates a fleet network to support off-premises sales. Declines in off-premises sales without a commensurate reduction in operating expenses, as well as rising fuel costs, may adversely affect our business. 17 We have several large wholesale customers. Our top two such customers accounted for approximately 10.2% of total Company store sales during fiscal 2008. The loss of one of our large national wholesale customers could adversely affect our results of operations across all business segments. These customers do not enter into long-term contracts; instead, they make purchase decisions based on a combination of price, product quality, consumer demand and service quality. They may in the future use more of their shelf space, including space currently used for our products, for other products, including private label products. If our sales to one or more of these customers are reduced, this reduction may adversely affect our business. Our failure or inability to enforce our trademarks could adversely affect the value of our brands. We own certain common law trademark rights in the United States, as well as numerous trademark and service mark registrations in the United States and in other jurisdictions. We believe that our trademarks and other intellectual property rights are important to our success and our competitive position. We therefore devote appropriate resources to the protection of our trademarks and proprietary rights and aggressively pursue persons who unlawfully and without our consent use or register our trademarks. The protective actions that we take, however, may not be sufficient, in some jurisdictions, to secure our trademark rights for some of the goods and services that we offer and/or to prevent imitation by others, which could adversely affect the value of our trademarks and service marks. In jurisdictions outside the United States, specifically Costa Rica, Guatemala, Indonesia, Nigeria, Peru, the Philippines, Thailand and Venezuela, we are aware that some businesses have registered, used and/or may be using “Krispy Kreme” (or its phonetic equivalent) in connection with doughnut-related goods and services. There may be similar such uses or registrations of which we are unaware and which could perhaps arise from prior users. These uses and/or registrations could limit our operations and possibly cause us to incur litigation costs, or pay damages or licensing fees to a prior user or registrant of similar intellectual property. We have substantial indebtedness under our secured credit facilities that could adversely impact cash availability for growth and operations and may increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions. Our indebtedness for borrowed money as of February 3, 2008 was approximately $76.7 million, including $76.1 million under our secured credit facilities. Our debt service obligations with respect to this indebtedness could have an adverse impact on our earnings and cash flow for as long as the indebtedness is outstanding. Our substantial level of indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following: our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be impaired; our use of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments under our secured credit facilities, which will reduce the funds available to us for other purposes such as potential acquisitions and capital expenditures; our level of indebtedness may put us at a competitive disadvantage and reduce our flexibility in planning for, or responding to, changing conditions in our business; and our level of indebtedness may increase our vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse developments in our industry. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets to meet our debt service requirements. 18 Our secured credit facilities impose restrictions and obligations upon us that significantly limit our ability to operate our business, and in the past we have sought and received waivers relating to these restrictions and obligations. Our secured credit facilities impose financial and other restrictive covenants that limit our ability to plan for and respond to changes in our business. Under our secured credit facilities, we are required to meet certain financial tests, including a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio. In addition, we must comply with covenants which, among other things, limit the incurrence of additional indebtedness, liens, investments, dividends, transactions with affiliates, asset sales, acquisitions, capital expenditures, mergers and consolidations, prepayments of other indebtedness and other matters customarily restricted in such agreements. Any failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default under our secured credit facilities. We have sought and received waivers of defaults and amendments to covenants from the lenders under our current and former secured credit facilities. While we were able to obtain these waivers and amendments, in some cases at a significant additional cost, there is no assurance that we will not require additional waivers or amendments or that any future waivers or amendments will be granted. In the event of a default, the absence of waivers or amendments could result in acceleration of all or substantially all of our indebtedness and the loss of earning assets securing our indebtedness. As a result of amendments and waivers in fiscal 2008 and 2009, we have paid fees of approximately $835,000 and the interest rate on the loans has increased from LIBOR + 2.75% to LIBOR + 5.50% (with a LIBOR floor of 3.25%). Any future amendments or waivers could result in additional fees or rate increases, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. RISKS RELATING TO THE FOOD SERVICE INDUSTRY The food service industry is affected by consumer preferences and perceptions. Changes in these preferences and perceptions may lessen the demand for our doughnuts, which would reduce sales and harm our business. Food service businesses are often affected by changes in consumer tastes, national, regional and local economic conditions and demographic trends. Individual store performance may be adversely affected by traffic patterns, the cost and availability of labor, purchasing power, availability of products and the type, number and location of competing stores. Our sales have been and may continue to be affected by changing consumer tastes, such as health or dietary preferences, including the reduction of consumption of food products containing high levels of carbohydrates, that cause consumers to avoid doughnuts in favor of foods that are perceived as healthier. Moreover, because we are primarily dependent on a single product, if consumer demand for doughnuts should decrease, our business would suffer more than if we had a more diversified menu. The food service industry is affected by litigation, regulation and publicity concerning food quality, health and other issues, which can cause customers to avoid our products and result in liabilities. Food service businesses can be adversely affected by litigation, by regulation and by complaints from customers or government authorities resulting from food quality, illness, injury or other health concerns or operating issues stemming from one store or a limited number of stores, including stores operated by our franchisees. In addition, class action lawsuits have been filed and may continue to be filed against various food service businesses (including quick service restaurants) alleging, among other things, that food service businesses have failed to disclose the health risks associated with high-fat foods and that certain food service business marketing practices have encouraged obesity. Adverse publicity about these allegations may negatively affect us and our franchisees, regardless of whether the allegations are true, by discouraging customers from buying our products. Because one of our competitive strengths is the taste and quality of our doughnuts, adverse publicity or regulations relating to food quality or other similar concerns affects us more than it would food service businesses that compete primarily on other factors. We could also incur significant liabilities if such a lawsuit or claim results in a decision against us or as a result of litigation costs regardless of the result. 19 Our success depends on our ability to compete with many food service businesses. We compete with many well-established food service companies. At the retail level, we compete with other doughnut retailers and bakeries, specialty coffee retailers, bagel shops, fast-food restaurants, delicatessens, take-out food service companies, convenience stores and supermarkets. At the wholesale level, we compete primarily with grocery store bakeries, packaged snack foods and vending machine dispensers of snack foods. Aggressive pricing by our competitors or the entrance of new competitors into our markets could reduce our sales and profit margins. Moreover, many of our competitors offer consumers a wider range of products. Many of our competitors or potential competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do which may allow them to react to changes in pricing, marketing and the quick service restaurant industry better than we can. As competitors expand their operations, we expect competition to intensify. In addition, the start-up costs associated with retail doughnut and similar food service establishments are not a significant impediment to entry into the retail doughnut business. We also compete with other employers in our markets for hourly workers and may be subject to higher labor costs. RISKS RELATING TO OWNERSHIP OF OUR COMMON STOCK The market price of our common stock has been volatile and may continue to be volatile, and the value of any investment may decline. The market price of our common stock has been volatile and may continue to be volatile. This volatility may cause wide fluctuations in the price of our common stock, which is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”). The market price may fluctuate in response to many factors including: The results of the ongoing governmental investigations and civil litigation described under Item 3, “Legal Proceedings”; Changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets; Variations in our quarterly operating results or our operating results failing to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors in a particular period; Changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; Other developments affecting Krispy Kreme, our industry, customers or competitors; and The operating and stock price performance of companies that investors deem comparable to Krispy Kreme. Our charter, bylaws and shareholder rights agreement contain anti-takeover provisions that may make it more difficult or expensive to acquire us in the future or may negatively affect our stock price. Our articles of incorporation, bylaws and shareholder rights agreement contain several provisions that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions may make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting common stock. They may also delay, prevent or deter a merger, acquisition, tender offer, proxy contest or other transaction that might otherwise result in our shareholders’ receiving a premium over the market price for their common stock. 20 Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 