Item 1A. Risk Factors Like all financial companies, the Company’s business and results of operations are subject to a number of risks, many of which are outside of the Company’s control. In addition to the other information in this report, readers should carefully consider that the following important risk factors, among others, could materially impact the Company’s business and future results of operations. In addition, in analyzing whether to make or continue an investment in the Company’s securities, investors should consider, among other factors, the following risk factors. Changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operation. The earnings of the Company depend substantially on the interest rate spread, which is the difference between the rates the Company earns on loans, investment securities and other interest-earning assets, and the interest rates the Company pays on deposits and borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond the control of the Company, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. While the Company has taken measures intended to manage the risk of operating in a changing interest rate environment, there can be no assurance that such measures will be effective in avoiding undue interest rate risk. Regional economic changes in the Company’s markets could adversely impact results from operations. Like all banks, the Company is subject to the effects of any economic downturn, and in particular a significant decline in home values or reduced commercial development in the Company’s markets could have a negative effect on results of operations. The Company’s success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in the counties in which the Company conducts business, and in the southwest Ohio and southeast Indiana area in general. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, the Company provides banking and financial services to customers primarily in the southwest Ohio counties of Butler, Hamilton and Warren counties, as well as Dearborn and Ohio counties in Indiana. The local economic conditions in these market areas have a significant impact on the Company’s ability to originate loans, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. A significant decline in the general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond the Company’s control could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, because the Company has a significant amount of loans secured by commercial, multi-family, and non-owner occupied investment properties, decreases in tenant occupancy may also have a negative effect on the ability of many of the Company’s borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on the Company’s earnings. A significant decline in home values would likely lead to increased delinquencies and defaults in both consumer and home equity loans and owner-occupied residential real estate loan portfolios and result in increased losses in the portfolios. Recently, there has been a moderate downturn in the local economy, a softening in the real estate market and a oversupply of lots, speculative homes and non-owner occupied rental units, leading to cash flow issues faced by local property investors, builders, and developers. These issues have had a material adverse impact on the Bank’s nonaccrual loans. At December 31, 2006, the Bank’s nonperforming loans amounted to $25.8 million, or 3.17% of total net loans. The resolution of such nonperforming loans may substantially impact the Company’s provision for loan losses and allowance for loan losses. New or revised tax, accounting and other laws, regulations, rules and standards could significantly impact strategic initiatives, results of operations and financial condition. The financial services industry is highly regulated and laws and regulations may sometimes impose significant limitations on operations. These limitations, and sources or potential liability for the violation of such laws and regulation, are described in Item 1 of Part I of this report under the heading “Business — Regulation.” These regulations, along with the currently existing tax and accounting laws, regulations, rules and standards, control the methods by which financial institutions conduct business; implement strategic initiatives, as well as past, present, and contemplated tax planning; and govern financial disclosures. These laws, regulations, rules, and standards are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. The nature, extent, and timing of the adoption of significant new laws, changes in existing laws, or repeal of existing laws may have a material impact on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition, the effects of which are impossible to predict at this time. Strong competition within the Company’s market area may limit profitability. The Company faces significant competition both in attracting deposits and in the origination of loans, as described in Item 1 of Part I of this report under the heading “Business — Competition.” Mortgage bankers, commercial banks, credit unions and other savings institutions, which have offices in the Bank’s market area have historically provided most of the Company’s competition for deposits. Many competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than the Company. Moreover, the Company may face increased competition in the origination of loans if competing thrift institutions convert to stock form, because such converting thrifts would likely seek to invest their new capital into loans. Finally, credit unions do not pay federal or state income taxes and are subject to fewer regulatory constraints than savings banks and as a result, they may enjoy a competitive advantage over the Company. The Bank competes for loans principally on the basis of the interest rates and loan fees it charges, the types of loans it originates and the quality of services it provides to borrowers. This advantage places significant competitive pressure on the prices of loans and deposits. 29 Losses on a few large loans or lending relationships can cause significant volatility in earnings. Due to the Company’s limited size, individual loan values can be large relative to the Company’s earnings for a particular period. If a few relatively large loan relationships become non-performing in a period and the Company is required to increase its loss reserves, or to write off principal or interest relative to such loans, the operating results of that period could be significantly adversely affected. The effect on results of operations for any given period from a change in the performance of a relatively small number of loan relationships may be disproportionately larger than the impact of such loans on the quality of the Company’s overall loan portfolio. In each of the third and fourth quarters of 2006, the Company incurred losses on lending relationships that significantly impacted operating results for the relevant period. As of December 31, 2006, the Bank’s nonperforming loans amounted to $25.8 million, with six borrowers owing $12.1 million, or 46.9% of the total nonperforming loans. Nonresidential real estate secured non-accrual loans totaled $8.3 million at December 31, 2006, or 32.1% of the total nonperforming loans. The extended disruption of vital infrastructure could negatively impact the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s operations depend upon, among other things, its technology and physical infrastructure, including its equipment and facilities. Extended disruption of its vital infrastructure by fire, power loss, natural disaster, telecommunications failure, computer hacking and viruses, terrorist activity or the domestic and foreign response to such activity, or other events outside of the Company’s control, could have a material adverse impact either on the financial services industry as a whole, or on the Company’s business, results of operations, and financial condition. In order to mitigate some of this risk, the Company has a business continuity plan that is regularly updated and tested. Impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets could require charges to earnings, which could result in a negative impact on the Company’s results of operations. Under current accounting standards, goodwill and certain other intangible assets with indeterminate lives are no longer amortized but, instead, are assess for impairment periodically or when impairment indicators are present. Assessment of goodwill and such other intangible assets could result in circumstances where the applicable intangible asset is deemed to be impaired for accounting purposes. Under such circumstances, the intangible asset’s impairment would be reflected as a charge to earnings in the period during which such impairment is identified. The Company is a thrift holding company and its sources of funds are limited. The Company is a thrift holding company, and its operations are primarily conducted by the Bank, which is subject to significant federal regulation. Cash available to pay dividends to stockholders of the Company and to service the debt of the Company is largely dependent on the receipt of dividends from the Bank. In the event that the Bank is unable to pay dividends to the Company, the Company may not be able to service the debt or pay dividends on the common stock. Any payment of dividends in the future will depend, in large part, on the Bank’s earnings, capital requirements, regulatory approval and financial condition. Other risk factors. The above description of risk factors is not exhaustive. Other risk factors are described elsewhere herein as well as in other reports and documents that we file with or furnish to the SEC. Other factors that could also cause results to differ from our expectations may not be described in any such report or document. Each of these factors could by itself, or together with one or more other factors, adversely affect our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 30 