ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Certain Risks That May Affect Our Operating Results and Our Common Stock In addition to the other information in this report, the following factors should be considered in evaluating our business and our future prospects: Our customer base is concentrated and the loss of one or more of our customers could cause our business to suffer significantly. We have derived, and believe that we will continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of large customers in the telecommunications industry in China, such as China Mobile, China Telecom and China Unicom. China Mobile accounted for 60% of our revenues in 2008 and 58% of our revenues in 2007. The loss, cancellation or deferral of any large contract would have a material adverse effect on our revenues, and consequently our profits. Despite our entering the IT security products and services market following the acquisition of Lenovo’s IT service business unit in 2004, the revenue expected to be generated by customers outside the telecommunications industry is still limited compared to our overall revenues. Moreover, we cannot provide any assurance that a material proportion of our revenues will be derived from other customers in the future. The growth of our business is dependent on government telecommunications infrastructure and budgetary policies, particularly the allocation of funds to sustain the growth of the telecommunications industry in China. Our telecommunications customers are directly or indirectly owned or controlled by the government of China. Accordingly, their business strategies, capital expenditure budgets and spending plans are largely decided in accordance with government policies, which, in turn, are determined on a centralized basis at the highest level by the National Development and Reform Commission of China. As a result, the growth of our business is heavily dependent on government policies for telecommunications infrastructure. Insufficient government allocation of funds to sustain the growth of China’s telecommunications industries in the future could reduce the demand for our products and services and have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow our business. 19 Table of Contents The Chinese economic slow-down may negatively impact our operating results. The Chinese economy has recently experienced a slowing of its growth rate. A number of factors have contributed to this slow-down, including appreciation of the Renminbi, the currency of China, or RMB, which has adversely affected China’s exports. In addition, the slow-down has been exacerbated by the recent global crisis in the financial services and credit markets, which has resulted in significant volatility and dislocation in the global capital markets. It is uncertain how long the global crisis in the financial services and credit markets will continue and how much adverse impact it will have on the global economy in general or the Chinese economy in particular. Slowing economic growth in China could result in slowing growth for China’s major telecommunications carriers, which are our largest customers, as well as slowing growth for enterprises and government entities that buy our IT security software and services. Any such adverse conditions for our customers could reduce their demand for our software and services and therefore reduce our revenues. Further restructuring of China’s telecommunications sector may have an adverse impact on our business prospects and results of operations. Historically, China’s telecommunications sector has been subject to a number of state-mandated restructurings. For example, in 2002 China Telecom was split geographically into a northern division (comprising 10 provinces) and a southern division (comprising 21 provinces). Under the restructuring, the northern division of China Telecom merged with China Netcom and was renamed China Network Communications Group Corporation, or China Netcom Group, while the southern division continued to use the China Telecom name. As a result of the restructuring, new orders for telecommunications infrastructure expansion and improvement projects decreased, which adversely affected our revenue. Any similar restructurings of this nature could cause our operating results to vary unexpectedly from quarter to quarter in the future. In May 2008, China announced a new restructuring plan for the country’s telecommunications operators. This restructuring plan reorganized the operations of Chinese telecommunications carriers, creating three major operators that have both mobile and fixed-line services. It is the Chinese government’s intention to enhance the competitiveness of local telecommunications operators and clear the way for 3G licenses, which were released after the completion of this restructuring. Such restructuring could disrupt, slow down or otherwise materially affect our customers’ capital expenditures on telecommunications infrastructure and improvement projects and, therefore, our revenues. Additionally, the competitive situation in the wireless communications market in China may be altered, or the resulting entities may change suppliers or sourcing policies. If China Mobile or any of our other large customers decides to significantly change its procurement methods for telecommunications software and services, reduces or eliminates the purchase of our software and services or becomes unable or refuses to pay for our software and services, our revenues would decline significantly. Any future acquisitions or investments we make may expose us to potential risks and have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. Selective acquisitions and strategic investments form part of our strategy to further expand our business. If we are presented with appropriate opportunities that we feel will enhance our revenue growth, operations and profitability, we may acquire additional businesses, services or products that are complementary to our core business. Such acquisitions could result in the use of significant amounts of cash and/or dilutive issuances of our common stock. Such acquisitions also involve other significant risks. For example, our integration of such acquired entities and/or operations into our business may not be successful and may not enable us to expand into new business platforms as well as we expect. This would significantly affect the expected benefits of these acquisitions. Moreover, the integration of new businesses into our operations has required significant attention from our management. Future acquisitions will also likely present similar challenges. Future acquisitions or strategic investments may also expose us to other potential risks, including risks associated with unforeseen or hidden liabilities, the diversion of resources from our existing businesses and potential loss, or harm to, relationships with employees and clients as a result of our integration of new 20 Table of Contents businesses. In addition, we cannot be sure that we will be able to realize the benefits we anticipate from acquiring any business, services and products, or that we will not incur costs, including those relating to intangible assets or goodwill, in excess of our projected costs for these transactions. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material and adverse effect on our ability to manage our business, our financial condition and our results of operations. The long and variable sales cycles for our software and services can cause our revenues and operating results to vary significantly from period to period and may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Our revenues and operating results will vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and any of which may cause our stock price to fluctuate. A customer’s decision to purchase our software and services involves a significant commitment of its resources and extended evaluation. As a result, our sales cycle tends to be lengthy. We spend considerable time and expense educating and providing information to prospective customers about features and applications of our software and services. Because our major customers often operate large and complex networks, they usually expand their networks in large increments on a periodic basis. The combination of these factors can cause our revenues and results of operations to vary significantly and unexpectedly from quarter to quarter. A large part of the contract amount of our projects sometimes relates to hardware procurement. Since we recognize most of the revenues relating to hardware plus a portion of services and software revenues at the time of hardware delivery, the timing of hardware delivery can cause our quarterly gross revenues to fluctuate significantly. Due to the foregoing factors, we believe that quarter to quarter comparisons of our results of operations may not be a good indication of our future performance and should not be overly relied upon. It is likely that our results of operations in some periods may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In this event, the price of our common stock will probably decline, perhaps significantly more in percentage terms than any corresponding decline in our operating results. Our working capital requirements may increase significantly. We typically purchase hardware for our customers as part of our turn-key total solutions services. We generally require our customers to pay 80% to 90% of the invoice value of the hardware upon delivery. We typically place orders for hardware against back-to-back orders from customers and seek favourable payment terms from hardware vendors. This policy has historically minimized our working capital requirements. However, for certain large and strategically important projects, we have agreed to payment of less than 80% to 90% of the invoice value of the hardware upon delivery in order to maintain competitiveness. Wider adoption of less favourable payment terms or delays in hardware deliveries could cause our working capital needs to increase significantly. We have sustained losses in prior years and may incur slower earnings growth, earnings declines or net losses in the future. Although we had net income in 2004, 2006, 2007 and 2008, we sustained net losses in 2005. There are no assurances that we can sustain profitability or avoid net losses in the future. We continue to expect that certain of our operating expenses will increase as our business grows. The level of these expenses will be largely based on anticipated organizational growth and revenue trends and a high percentage of those expenses, particularly compensation expenses, will be fixed. As a result, any delays in expanding sales volume and generating revenue could result in substantial operating losses or slower earnings growth or earnings declines. Our high level of fixed costs, as well as increased competition in the software market, could result in reduced operating margins. We maintain a relatively stable work force of software and network engineers engaged in all phases of planning and executing projects on behalf of our customers. As a result, our operating costs are relatively fixed from quarter to quarter, regardless of fluctuations in our revenues. Future fluctuations in our revenues could 21 Table of Contents result in decreases in our operating margins. In addition, enhanced competition in the software market and other markets in which we operate could result in reduced prices, which, together with our relatively fixed operating costs, could also result in reduced operating margins. Moreover, our operating margins may decline as a result of the strong bargaining power of our customers, general economic conditions or the restructuring of the telecommunications sector in China. China’s laws and regulations currently prohibit foreign-invested companies from engaging in systems integration businesses involving state secrets, which is part of the IT services business we acquired from Lenovo in 2004. China’s laws and regulations also restrict certain foreign-invested companies from participating in the value-added telecommunications, or VATS, business. Substantial uncertainties exist with respect to our contractual arrangements with our affiliates engaged in these businesses, due to uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of current and future China laws and regulations. In 2001, the State Secrecy Bureau of China promulgated the Administrative Measures for Qualification of Computer Information Systems Integration Involving State Secrets, which expressly prohibits foreign persons or foreign-invested enterprises from engaging in systems integration businesses involving state secrets, also referred to as “restricted businesses”. We and our PRC operating subsidiaries in China are considered foreign persons or foreign-invested enterprises under the laws of China and cannot therefore engage in restricted businesses. Many of the IT security services provided by our Lenovo-AsiaInfo division comprise restricted businesses. We operate the restricted businesses primarily through contractual agreements with Lenovo Security Technologies (Beijing), Inc., or Lenovo Security, and Lenovo Computer System and Technology Services Limited, or Lenovo Computer. When we acquired the restricted businesses, we agreed to have Lenovo Security engage in the operation of the restricted businesses upon Lenovo Security’s receipt of all requisite business licenses and qualifications, such as the Computer Information System Integration Involving State Secrets Qualification Certificate issued by the State Secrecy Bureau of China for Protection of State Secrets. Lenovo Security has obtained most of these licenses. Certain licenses are subject to annual review and we cannot assure you that Lenovo Security can successfully renew such licenses. Since September, 2006, Lenovo Security has conducted most of our operations related to the restricted businesses and, consequently, generates most of our revenue derived from the restricted businesses. Lenovo Computer is owned by certain subsidiaries of Lenovo. Lenovo Security is owned by Legend Holdings Limited, the parent company and controlling shareholder of Lenovo, and two of our employees, Mr. Jian Qi, the President and Chief Executive Officer of Lenovo-AsiaInfo division, and Ms. Zheng Wang, our Director of Investments. Mr. Qi and Ms. Wang are citizens of China. We do not currently have any equity interest in either Lenovo Computer or Lenovo Security, but instead enjoy economic benefits and control over these entities substantially similar to equity ownership through contractual arrangements among one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, these affiliated entities and their respective shareholders. Consistent with the provisions of Financial Accounting Standard Board “FASB” Interpretation No. 46 (revised), “Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities—an Interpretation of ARB No. 51”, we consolidate the operating results of Lenovo Computer and Lenovo Security with our operating results. At the closing of our acquisition of Lenovo’s IT services business, our PRC legal counsel who represented us in the transaction, T&C Law Firm, and PRC legal counsel to Lenovo Group, Tian Yuan Law Firm, each delivered legal opinions to the effect that our ownership structure of Lenovo Computer and Lenovo Security, and the contractual arrangements among Lenovo-AsiaInfo, these affiliated entities and their respective shareholders, were in compliance with all existing PRC laws and regulations. There are, however, substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of current or future PRC laws and regulations, including regulations governing the validity and enforcement of such contractual arrangements. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that PRC government authorities will not ultimately take a view contrary to the opinion of our and Lenovo’s PRC legal counsel. Like the IT security business in China, many aspects of the telecommunications services industry, such as VATS, are also restricted from foreign ownership in most circumstances. In September 2004 we entered into 22 Table of Contents contractual arrangements with Star VATS, a domestic company owned by certain of our employees who are citizens of China, which has been established to engage in the VATS business in China. Star VATS is in the process of developing VATS products and services that we hope to offer in China. We anticipate that if we successfully launch our VATS products and services, all of our business related to such products and services will be conducted through Star VATS. Star VATS will generate any revenue relating to such business and will make use of the licenses and approvals that are essential to such business. We do not have any equity interest in Star VATS, but instead have the right to enjoy economic benefits similar to equity ownership through our contractual arrangements with Star VATS and its shareholders. In the opinion of our PRC legal counsel who represented us in the transaction, T&C Law Firm, delivered at the time Star VATS was established, the contractual arrangements among us, Star VATS, and the shareholders of Star VATS were in compliance with all existing PRC laws and regulations. There are, however, substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of current and future PRC laws and regulations, including regulations governing the validity and enforcement of such contractual arrangements. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that China government authorities will not ultimately take a view contrary to the opinion of our PRC legal counsel. In addition, as part of the contractual arrangements described above, the shareholders of Lenovo Computer, Lenovo Security and Star VATS agreed to pledge their respective shares in those entities to certain of our subsidiaries. Pursuant to a regulation in China known as the Provisions for Changes of Investors’ Equity in Foreign Invested Enterprises, effective May 28, 1997, a pledge of the equity interests of a foreign-invested enterprise will only be effective after obtaining approval from and registering with the relevant governmental authorities. Furthermore, under the PRC Property Rights Law, effective October 1, 2007, a pledge is created only after registration with the local branch of the Administration for Industry and Commerce in China. The pledges of the equity interests in Lenovo Computer, a foreign-invested company, have not yet been approved by or registered with the relevant governmental authorities in China. Lenovo Computer intends, however, to take the necessary steps to comply with the requirements described above. In addition, the pledges of the equity interests in Lenovo Security have not been registered with the relevant governmental authorities in China because the registration procedures were only recently announced. Lenovo Security is currently in the process of registering such pledges. The pledges of the equity interests in Star VATS have recently been registered with the relevant governmental authorities in China. Before compliance with the approval and registration requirements described above, we cannot assure you that these pledges will be effective or deemed created by the relevant governmental authorities. If we or any of our contractual arrangements with Lenovo Computer, Lenovo Security and Star VATS are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations concerning the systems integration business involving state secrets or the VATS businesses, the relevant PRC regulatory authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations, including: • revoking the business licenses of our subsidiaries in China; • discontinuing or restricting our PRC subsidiaries’ operations; • imposing conditions or requirements with which we or our PRC subsidiaries may not be able to comply; or • requiring us or our PRC subsidiaries to restructure the relevant ownership structure or operations. The imposition of any of these penalties could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. The principal shareholders and directors of Lenovo Security, Lenovo Computer and Star VATS may have potential conflicts of interest with us, which may adversely affect our business. We operate the restricted businesses in China primarily through Lenovo Security and Star VATS, which are jointly owned by certain of our employees, and through Lenovo Computer, which is indirectly owned by Lenovo Group Limited, the indirect parent company of one of our shareholders. Conflicts of interests between their 23 Table of Contents duties to us and to Lenovo Security, Lenovo Computer and Star VATS may arise. We cannot assure you that when conflicts of interest arise, any or all of these persons will act in the best interests of our company or that any conflict of interest will be resolved in our favor. In addition, these persons or their heirs or other successors may breach or cause Lenovo Security, Lenovo Computer and Star VATS to breach or refuse to renew the existing contractual arrangements that allow us to effectively control Lenovo Security and Lenovo Computer and Star VATS and to receive economic benefits from them. Other than relying on the duties of loyalty owed to us by the shareholders of Lenovo Security and Star VATS who are also our officers, and the contractual arrangements with the shareholders of Lenovo Security, Lenovo Computer and Star VATS, we currently do not have any measure or policy to address these potential conflicts of interest. In the event of any disputes regarding the contractual arrangements, we would have to rely on legal remedies under PRC law. These remedies may not always be effective, particularly in light of uncertainties in the PRC legal system. If we cannot resolve any conflicts of interest or disputes between us and the shareholders of Lenovo Security, Lenovo Computer and Star VATS, we would have to rely on legal proceedings, the outcome of which may be uncertain and which could be disruptive to our business. Our contractual arrangements with Lenovo Computer, Lenovo Security and Star VATS may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct ownership of these affiliated entities and may be difficult to enforce. We rely on contractual arrangements with Lenovo Computer, Lenovo Security and Star VATS to operate our IT security and VATS businesses. These contractual arrangements, which require Lenovo Computer, Lenovo Security and Star VATS to pay service and licensing fees to our subsidiaries in China, are currently the primary means by which we could receive economic benefits from these affiliated companies. In the future, we expect to continue to obtain economic benefits from Lenovo Computer, Lenovo Security and Star VATS through these contractual arrangements. Although we have been advised by our PRC legal counsel that our contractual arrangements with Lenovo Computer, Lenovo Security and Star VATS are valid, binding and enforceable under PRC laws, these contractual arrangements may not be as effective as direct ownership of these affiliated entities. For example, these affiliated entities and their respective shareholders could fail to perform or make payments as required under such contractual arrangements. In such event, we would have to rely on the PRC legal system to enforce these agreements. Any legal proceedings would be uncertain as to outcome and could result in the disruption of our business, damage to our reputation, diversion of our resources and the incurrence of substantial costs. In addition, in the event we are unable to so extend our contractual arrangements, we may fail to obtain the requisite license to conduct certain IT security and VATS businesses in China and may be required to temporarily suspend these businesses. Contractual arrangements we have entered into between our subsidiaries and each of Lenovo Computer, Lenovo Security and Star VATS may be subject to scrutiny by China tax authorities, and a finding that we or any of our subsidiaries or any of Lenovo Computer, Lenovo Security and Star VATS owe additional taxes or are ineligible for our preferential tax treatment, or both, could substantially increase our taxes owed, or could materially reduce our profits and the value of your investment. Under PRC law, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be audited or challenged by the tax authorities in PRC. If any of the transactions between our subsidiaries and each of Lenovo Computer, Lenovo Security and Star VATS are found to not have been entered into on an arm’s-length basis, or to result in an unreasonable reduction in tax under PRC law, the tax authorities in China have the authority to disallow our tax savings, adjust the profits and losses of our respective Chinese entities and assess late payment interest and penalties. A finding by the tax authorities in China that we are ineligible for certain tax savings, or that any of our subsidiaries or any of Lenovo Computer, Lenovo Security and Star VATS is ineligible for their preferential tax treatment, could increase our taxes owed and reduce our profits and the value of your investment. 24 Table of Contents We may not be able to operate the systems integration businesses involving state secrets if we acquire all of the equity interest in Lenovo Computer and Lenovo Security. PRC laws and regulations currently prohibit foreign persons or foreign-invested enterprises from engaging in systems integration businesses involving state secrets. We and our subsidiaries are considered foreign persons or foreign-invested enterprises under China laws. Unless such prohibition is lifted in the future, we will not be able to operate such business if and when we acquire all of the equity interest in Lenovo Computer and Lenovo Security pursuant to the terms of our contractual arrangements with Lenovo Computer and Lenovo Security and their respective shareholders. The loss of this line of business may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Regulations relating to acquisitions of Chinese companies by foreign entities may limit our ability to acquire Chinese companies and adversely affect the implementation of our acquisition strategy and any failure by our stockholders who are Chinese residents to make or obtain any required registrations pursuant to such regulations may subject us to legal sanctions. On October 21, 2005, the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, issued a notice, known as “Circular 75,” which sets forth a regulatory framework for acquisitions of PRC businesses involving offshore companies owned by a PRC residents or passport holders, known as “round-trip” investments or acquisitions. Among other things, Circular 75 provides that if a round-trip investment in a PRC company by an offshore company controlled by PRC residents occurred prior to the issuance of Circular 75, certain PRC residents were required to submit a registration form to the local SAFE branch to register their ownership interests in the offshore company prior to March 31, 2006. Circular 75 also provides that, prior to establishing or assuming control of an offshore company for the purpose of obtaining financing for that offshore company using the assets or equity interests in an onshore enterprise in the PRC, each PRC resident or passport holder who is an ultimate controller of such offshore company, whether an individual or a legal entity, must complete the overseas investment foreign exchange registration procedures with the relevant local SAFE branch. Such PRC residents must also amend the registration form if there is a material event affecting the offshore company, such as, among other things, a change in share capital, a transfer of shares, or if such company is involved in a merger, acquisition or a spin-off transaction or uses its assets in China to guarantee offshore obligations. In May 2007, SAFE issued guidance to its local branches with respect to the operational process for SAFE registration, known as “Circular 106,” which standardized registration under Circular 75. In the past, we have acquired a number of assets from, or equity interests in, PRC companies. However, there is substantial uncertainty as to whether we would be considered an “offshore company” for purposes of Circular 75, and, at present, it is unclear whether Circular 75 requires a company such as ours to register. We have in any event requested our stockholders who are PRC residents to make the necessary applications, filings and amendments as required under Circular 75 and other related regulations. We will attempt to comply, and attempt to ensure that all of our stockholders subject to these rules comply, with the relevant requirements. We cannot, however, assure the compliance of all of our PRC-resident stockholders. Any failure to comply with the relevant requirements could subject us to fines or sanctions imposed by the PRC government, including restrictions on certain of our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends to us and our ability to increase our investment in those subsidiaries. As Circular 75, Circular 106 and related regulations are relatively new and it is uncertain how these regulations will be interpreted, implemented or enforced, we cannot predict how these regulations will affect our future acquisition strategies and business operations. For example, if we decide to acquire additional PRC companies, we cannot assure you that we or the owners of such companies will be able to complete the filings and registrations, if any, required by Circular 75, Circular 106 and related regulations. Under Circular 75, failure to comply with the registration procedures set forth thereunder may result in the imposition of restrictions on the foreign exchange activities of the relevant onshore company, including the payment of dividends and other distributions to its offshore parent or affiliate and the capital inflow from the offshore entity, and may also subject relevant PRC residents to penalties under PRC foreign exchange administration regulations. Any such restrictions or penalties may restrict our ability to implement an acquisition strategy and could adversely affect our business and prospects. 25 Table of Contents In addition, six PRC regulatory authorities, including the PRC Ministry of Commerce and the Chinese Securities Regulatory Commission, or CSRC, jointly promulgated regulations entitled Provisions regarding Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the New M&A Rules effective September 8, 2006. The New M&A Rules established additional procedures and requirements that make merger and acquisition activities by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including, in some circumstances, advance notice to the Ministry of Commerce of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise. Compliance with the New M&A Rules, and any related approval processes, including obtaining approval from the Ministry of Commerce, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete acquisitions of domestic PRC companies, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. Furthermore, on August 29, 2008, SAFE issued a notice, known as “Circular 142,” regulating the conversion by a foreign-invested company of foreign currency into RMB by restricting the uses for the converted RMB. Circular 142 requires that the registered capital of a foreign-invested company denominated in RMB but converted from a foreign currency may only be used pursuant to the purposes set forth in the foreign-invested company’s business scope as approved by the applicable governmental authority. Such registered capital may not be used for equity investments within the PRC. In addition, SAFE strengthened its oversight of the flow and use of the registered capital of a foreign-invested company that was denominated in RMB but converted from foreign currency. The use of such registered capital may not be changed without SAFE’s approval, and may not in any case be used to repay RMB loans if the proceeds of such loans have not been used. Violations of Circular 142 may result in severe penalties, including significant fines. As a result, Circular 142 may significantly limit our ability to invest in or acquire other PRC companies using the RMB-denominated capital of our PRC subsidiaries. Asset impairment reviews may result in future write-downs. Effective January 1, 2002, we adopted SFAS No. 142, which requires us, among other things, to conduct annual reviews of goodwill, and SFAS No. 144, which requires us to test intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable. In connection with our business acquisitions, we make assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and other factors to determine the fair value of goodwill and intangible assets. In assessing the related useful lives of those assets, we have to make assumptions regarding their fair value, our recoverability of those assets and our ability to successfully develop and ultimately commercialize acquired technology. If those assumptions change in the future when we conduct our periodic reviews in accordance with applicable accounting standards, we may be required to record impairment charges. For example, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $21.2 million as a result of an independent valuation during the fourth quarter of 2005 of the goodwill and acquired intangible assets mainly attributable to our acquisition of Lenovo’s IT services business in 2004. It is possible that future reviews will result in further write-downs of goodwill and other intangible assets. We have recorded a US$4.6 million non-cash impairment charge to net income, and may be required to record additional significant charges to earnings from the declines in fair value of our marketable securities if such declines become other than temporary. Our short-term investment policy and strategy attempt primarily to preserve capital and meet our liquidity requirements. Our marketable securities are classified as available-for-sale securities in short-term investments and are reported at fair value with net unrealized losses recognized as accumulated other comprehensive income in stockholders’ equity unless there is a decline in fair value below cost that we consider is other than temporary, in which case the amount of the decline would be recognized as a loss and reflected in our income statement. As of December 31, 2008, we recognized a $4.6 million non-cash impairment charge to net income related to our short-term investments in certain stock funds. We review our short-term investments to determine whether any differences between cost and fair value are other-than-temporary impairment in accordance with FASB Staff Position SFAS 115-1, “The Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments” and SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin Topic 5M, “The Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary 26 Table of Contents Impairment of Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities.” In addition, as of December 31, 2008, we also recognized a $2.0 million impairment on long-term investments, representing the decline in fair value of our 5% equity stake in Hinge Software Company Limited, a Shanghai-based provider of business intelligence software solutions. We review long-term investments for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of such investments may no longer be recoverable. The losses incurred on these short-term and long-term investments are primarily related to the changes in the general global market conditions. If factors arise that would require us to account for additional declines as other than temporary or if we are unable to hold investments until the carrying value of such investments is recovered, we may need to recognize the declines as additional realized losses with a charge to income, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. We may be subject to fines and legal sanctions if we or our employees who are PRC citizens fail to comply with recent PRC regulations relating to employee stock options granted by overseas listed companies to PRC citizens. On March 28, 2007, SAFE issued the Application Procedure for Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Holding Plans or Stock Option Plans of Overseas Listed Companies, also known as Circular 78. Under Circular 78, PRC individuals who participate in an employee stock option holding plan or a stock option plan of an overseas listed company are required, through a PRC domestic agent or PRC subsidiary of the overseas listed company, to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures. We and our Chinese employees who have been granted restricted stock or stock options pursuant to our stock incentive plans are subject to Circular 78 because we are an overseas listed company. However, in practice, significant uncertainties exist with respect to the interpretation and implementation of Circular 78. We intend to submit the application for registration of our employee stock incentive plan as soon as possible. We cannot provide any assurance that we or our Chinese employees will be able to comply with, qualify under, or obtain any registration required by Circular 78. In particular, if we or our Chinese employees fail to comply with the provisions of Circular 78, we or they may be subject to fines and legal sanctions imposed by SAFE or other PRC governmental authorities, which could result in a material and adverse effect to our business operations and employee stock incentive plans. We are highly dependent on our executive officers. Each of our executive officers is responsible for an important sector of our operations. Although we believe that we have significant depth at all levels of management, the loss of any of our executive officers’ services could be detrimental to our operations. We do not have, and do not plan to obtain, “key man” life insurance on any of our officers. We face a competitive labor market in China for skilled personnel and therefore are highly dependent on the skills and services of our existing key skilled personnel and our ability to hire additional skilled employees. Competition for highly skilled software design, engineering and sales and marketing personnel is intense in China. Our failure to attract, assimilate or retain qualified personnel to fulfill our current or future needs could impair our growth. Competition for skilled personnel comes primarily from our local competitors, as well as a wide range of foreign companies active in China, many of which have substantially greater resources than we have. Limitations on our ability to hire and train a sufficient number of personnel at all levels would limit our ability to undertake projects in the future and could cause us to lose market share. Increases in wages for software design, engineering, sales and marketing and management personnel will increase our net cash outflow and our gross margin and profit margin may decline. Historically, wages for comparably skilled technical and management personnel in the telecommunications software solutions and IT security products industry in China have been lower than in developed countries, such as in the U.S. or Europe. In recent years, wages in China’s software and IT security industry have increased and 27 Table of Contents may continue to increase at faster rates. Wage increases will increase our cost of our products and services of the same quality and increase our cost of operations. As a result, our gross margin and profit margin may decline. In the long term, unless offset by increases in efficiency and productivity of our work force, wage increases may also result in increased prices for our solutions and services, making us potentially less competitive. Increases in wages, including an increase in the cash component of our compensation expenses, will increase our net cash outflow and our gross margin and profit margin may decline. We extend warranties to our customers that expose us to potential liabilities. We customarily provide our customers with one to three year warranties, which cover third-party hardware and software products. Although we seek to arrange back-to-back warranties with hardware and software vendors, we have the primary responsibility with respect to their warranties. Our contracts often lack disclaimers or limitations on liability for special, consequential and incidental damages, nor do we typically cap the amounts our customers can recover for damages. In addition, we do not currently purchase any insurance policy with respect to our exposure to warranty claims. The failure of our installed projects to operate properly could give rise to substantial liability for special, consequential or incidental damages, which in turn could materially and adversely affect us. We sell our services on a fixed-price, fixed-time basis, which exposes us to risks associated with cost overruns and delays. We sell most of our services on a fixed-price, fixed-time basis. In contracts with our customers, we typically agree to pay late completion fines of up to 5% of the total contract value. In large scale telecommunications infrastructure projects, there are many factors beyond our control which could cause delays or cost overruns. In this event, we would be exposed to cost overruns and liability for late completion fines. We may become less competitive if we are unable to develop or acquire new products, or enhancements to our existing products, that are marketable on a timely and cost-effective basis. Our future operating results will depend, to a significant extent, upon our ability to enhance our existing products and services and to introduce new products and services to meet the requirements of our customers in a rapidly developing and evolving market. If we do not enhance our existing products and services or introduce new successful products and services in a timely manner, our products and services may become obsolete, and our revenues and operating results may suffer. Moreover, unexpected technical, operational, distribution or other problems could delay or prevent the introduction of any products or services that we may plan to introduce in the future. We cannot be sure that any of these products or services will achieve widespread market acceptance or generate incremental revenues. Our proprietary rights may be inadequately protected and there is a risk of poor enforcement of intellectual property rights in China. Our success and ability to compete depend substantially upon our intellectual property rights, which we protect through a combination of confidentiality arrangements and copyright, trademark, and patent registrations. We have registered some marks and filed trademark applications for other marks with the United States Patent and Trademark Office, the Trademark Bureau of the State Administration of Industry and Commerce in China and the Trade Marks Registry in Hong Kong. We have also registered copyrights with the State Copyright Bureau in China with respect to certain of our software products, although we have not applied for copyright protection elsewhere (including the U.S.). We have filed some patent applications and have acquired some existing patents in China for certain hardware and software products used or developed in our business. Despite these precautions, the legal regime protecting intellectual property rights in China is weak. Because the Chinese legal system in general and the intellectual property regime in particular, are relatively weak, it is often difficult to enforce intellectual property rights in China. In addition, there are other countries where effective copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited. 28 Table of Contents We enter into confidentiality agreements with most of our employees and consultants, and control access to, and distribution of, our documentation and other licensed information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our licensed services or technology without authorization, or to develop similar technology independently. Policing unauthorized use of our licensed technology is difficult and there can be no assurance that the steps we take will prevent misappropriation or infringement of our proprietary technology. In addition, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. A portion of our business involves the development and customization of software applications for customers. We generally retain significant ownership or rights to use and market such software for other customer projects, where possible. However, our customers sometimes retain co-ownership and rights to use the applications, processes, and intellectual property so developed. In some cases, we may have no right or only limited rights to reuse or provide these developments to projects involving other customers. To the extent that we are unable to negotiate contracts which permit us to reuse source-codes and methodologies, or to the extent that we have conflicts with our customers regarding our ability to do so, we may be unable to provide similar solutions to our other customers. We are exposed to certain business and litigation risks with respect to technology rights held by third parties. We currently license technology from third parties and intend to do so increasingly in the future as we introduce services that require new technology. There can be no assurance that these technology licenses will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Our inability to obtain any of these licenses could delay or compromise our ability to introduce new services. In addition, we may or may allegedly breach the technology rights of others and incur legal expenses and damages, which could be substantial. Investors may not be able to enforce judgments entered by United States courts against certain of our officers and directors. We are incorporated in the State of Delaware. However, a majority of our directors and executive officers, and certain of our principal stockholders, live outside of the U.S., principally in Beijing and Hong Kong. As a result, you may not be able to: • effect service of process upon those persons within the U.S.; or • enforce against those persons judgments obtained in United States courts, including judgments relating to the federal securities laws of the U.S. The fact that our business is conducted in both U.S. dollars and RMB may subject us to currency exchange rate risk due to fluctuations in the exchange rate between those two currencies. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the RMB to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the RMB is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies, including the U.S. dollar. This change in policy has resulted in approximately 17% appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar. The PRC government may decide to adopt an even more flexible currency policy in the future, which could result in further and more significant appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar. A majority of our revenues and expenses relating to hardware sales, the software and service components of our business are denominated in Renminbi. The value of our shares will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between US dollars and Renminbi because the value of our business is effectively denominated in Renminbi, while our shares are traded in US dollars. Furthermore, an increase in the value of the Renminbi may require us to exchange more US dollars into Renminbi in order to meet the working capital requirements of our subsidiaries in China. Depreciation of the value of the US dollar will also reduce the value of the cash we hold in US dollars, which we may use for purposes of future acquisitions or other business expansion. 29 Table of Contents We use U.S. dollars as our reporting and functional currency. The financial records of our Chinese subsidiaries are maintained in RMB, their functional currency. Their assets and liabilities are translated into U.S. dollars based on the rates of exchange existing on the balance sheet date. Their statements of operations are translated using a weighted average rate for the period. Foreign currency translation adjustments are reflected as accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in stockholders’ equity. Fluctuation in exchange rate might result in significant foreign currency translation adjustments. We reported foreign currency translation adjustments of $6.5 million, $7.0 million and $2.6 million in other comprehensive income (loss) in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The markets in which we sell our services and products are competitive and we may not be able to compete effectively. We operate in a highly competitive environment, both in the telecommunications software market and in the market for IT security services and solutions. In the telecommunications software market, our competitors include both multinational and local companies such as Amdocs, Digital China, Huawei, Linkage and Neusoft. In the IT security services and solutions market, our competitors include local players such as Topsec and international players such as Cisco. Our competitors, many of whom have greater financial, technical and human resources than we have, may be able to respond more quickly to new and emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of new products or services. It is possible that competition in the form of new competitors or alliances, joint ventures or consolidation among existing competitors may decrease our market share. Increased competition could result in lower personnel utilization rates, billing rate reductions, fewer customer engagements, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, any one of which could materially and adversely affect our profits and overall financial condition. Political and economic policies of the Chinese government could affect our industry in general and our competitive position in particular. Since the establishment of the People’s Republic of China in 1949, the Communist Party has been the governing political party in China. The highest bodies of leadership are the Politburo of the Communist Party, the Central Committee and the National People’s Congress. The State Council, which is the highest institution of government administration, reports to the National People’s Congress and has under its supervision various commissions, agencies and ministries, including the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, or MIIT, the telecommunications regulatory body of the Chinese government. Since the late 1970s, the Chinese government has been reforming the Chinese economic system. Although we believe that economic reform and the macroeconomic measures adopted by the Chinese government has had and will continue to have a positive effect on economic development in China, there can be no assurance that the economic reform strategy will not from time to time be modified or revised. Such modifications or revisions, if any, could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China. Such developments could reduce, perhaps significantly, the demand for our products and services. Furthermore, changes in political, economic and social conditions in China, adjustments in policies of the Chinese government or changes in laws and regulations could adversely affect our industry in general and our competitive position in particular. High technology and emerging market shares have historically experienced extreme volatility and may subject you to losses. The trading price of our shares may be subject to significant market volatility due to investor perceptions of investments relating to China and Asia, as well as developments in the telecommunications industry. In addition, the high technology sector of the stock market frequently experiences extreme price and volume fluctuations, which have particularly affected the market prices of many software companies and which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of those companies. 30 Table of Contents We may become subject to securities litigation, which is expensive and could result in a diversion of resources. In the past, periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities have often been followed by the institution of securities class action litigation against that company. Many companies in our industry have been subject to this type of litigation in the past. Moreover we are currently involved in a securities class action litigation as a result of allegedly improper allocation procedures relating to the sale of our common stock in connection with our initial public offering in March 2000. Although we cannot guarantee the outcome of these proceedings, we believe the final result of these actions will have no material effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. However, litigation is often expensive and diverts management’s attention and resources, and could materially and adversely affect our business. A significant number of shares of our common stock are or will be eligible for sale in the open market, which could drive down the market price for our common stock and make it difficult for us to raise capital. As of February 23, 2009, 43,486,816 shares of our common stock were outstanding, and there were approximately 4,412,876 shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of outstanding stock options and vesting of outstanding performance stock units and restricted stock units. Sales of a large number of shares by our stockholders could materially decrease the market price of our common stock and make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital through the sale of equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. Our stockholders may experience substantial dilution if we raise additional funds through the sale of equity securities. The issuance of a large number of additional shares of our common stock upon the exercise of outstanding options or in an equity financing transaction could cause a decline in the market price of our common stock due to the sale of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market, or the perception that these sales could occur. The risk of dilution and the resulting downward pressure on our stock price could also encourage investors to engage in short sales of our common stock. By increasing the number of shares offered for sale, material amounts of short selling could further contribute to progressive price declines in our common stock. We are subject to anti-takeover provisions that could prevent a change of control and prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium on their common stock. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of our preferred stock. Without any further vote or action on the part of our stockholders, our board of directors has the authority to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of the preferred stock. This preferred stock, if it is ever issued, may have preference over and harm the rights of the holders of our common stock. Although the issuance of this preferred stock will provide us with flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, such an issuance may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. We currently have authorized the size of our board of directors to be not less than three or more than ten directors. The terms of the office of our current eight-member board of directors have been divided into three classes: Class I, whose term will expire at the annual meeting of the stockholders to be held in 2009; Class II, whose term will expire at the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2010; and Class III, whose term will expire at the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2011. This classification of the board of directors may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in our control or management. We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. In general, the statute prohibits a publicly-held Delaware corporation from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years after the date when the person became an interested stockholder unless, subject to certain exceptions, the business combination or the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder is approved in a prescribed manner. Generally, a “business combination” 31 Table of Contents includes a merger, asset or stock sale, or other transaction resulting in a financial benefit to the stockholder; and an “interested stockholder” includes any person that owns 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or that is our affiliate or associate. Our change of control severance agreements with executive officers may discourage a change of control. We have entered into change of control severance agreements with most of our executive officers. These agreements provide, among other things, that the executive officers would be entitled to various benefits upon the occurrence of a covered termination (as defined therein) which occurs within one year after a change of control (as defined therein), including payment of one year of base salary and bonus, immediate vesting of 50% of any outstanding unvested stock options held by the executive officer and the provision of medical benefits and housing allowance. If a change of control occurs, and regardless of whether a covered termination takes place, the executive officers may be entitled to accelerated vesting of 50% of any outstanding unvested stock options held by the executive officer. The potential obligations to pay executive officers such severance amounts may discourage a potential acquirer from effecting a change of control. Failure to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. Since we are a Delaware corporation and a public company in the United States, we are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits U.S. companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Non-U.S. companies, including some that may compete with our company, are not subject to these prohibitions. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices may occur in China. We can make no assurance, however, that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences, including adverse publicity and damage to our reputation that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to potential liabilities and anticipate recurring costs in complying with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In July 2002, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Act, was signed into law. Among other things, the Act imposes corporate governance, reporting, and disclosure requirements; introduces stricter independence and financial expertise standards for audit committees; and sets stiff penalties for securities fraud. The Act and the related rules and regulations have increased the scope, complexity and costs of our corporate governance, reporting, and disclosure practices, and may increase the risk of personal liability for our directors, chief executive officer, and chief financial officer. Any such liabilities may adversely affect our reputation, our business, or our ability to meet listing criteria. Section 404 of the Act requires our management and our independent registered public accounting firm to assess our internal controls over financial reporting on an annual basis. During the course of this evaluation, documentation and attestation, we may identify deficiencies that we may not be able to remedy in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Act for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal controls, on an ongoing basis, over financial reporting in accordance with the Act. Moreover, effective internal controls over financial reporting, particularly those related to revenue recognition, are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent or detect fraud. Any failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our common stock. 32 Table of Contents We are exposed to certain tax risks with respect to tax benefits enjoyed by certain of our subsidiaries in China under the new Enterprise Income Tax Law of the PRC, or the EIT Law. Our subsidiaries and affiliated entities in China are subject to tax in China. Historically, as foreign-invested enterprises, or FIEs, most of those subsidiaries enjoyed various tax holidays and other preferential tax treatments, which reduced their effective income tax rates to 15% or lower. The EIT Law, which took effect on January 1, 2008, has applied a uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate to all “resident enterprises” in China, including FIEs. Moreover, the EIT Law applies to enterprises established outside of China with “de facto management bodies” located in China. Under the implementation regulations to the EIT Law issued by the PRC State Council, “de facto management body” is defined as a body that has material and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel and human resources, finances and treasury, and acquisition and disposition of properties and other assets of an enterprise. While we do not believe we are a “resident enterprise,” because ambiguities exist with the interpretation and application of the EIT Law and the implementation regulations, we may be considered a PRC resident enterprise and therefore may be subject to the China enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on certain of our income. Certain of our subsidiaries in China will continue to enjoy preferential tax rates as they have been qualified as key software enterprises or High and New Technology Enterprises (“HNTE”) under the new EIT Law. The official HNTE certificates have been issued to those subsidiaries in December 2008, prior to the filing of their China enterprise income tax returns. Dividends payable by us to our non-PRC stockholders, and gains on the sales of our common stock, may be subject to withholding taxes under PRC tax laws, which may materially reduce the value of your investment. The EIT Law and its implementing regulations, effective January 1, 2008, provide that a 10% withholding tax will normally be applicable on dividends payable to non-PRC stockholders which are derived from sources within the PRC, unless otherwise exempted or reduced by tax treaties or similar arrangements. Any gains realized on the transfer of shares by such stockholders may also be subject to a 10% withholding tax if such gains are regarded as income derived from sources within the PRC. The dividends we pay with respect to our common stock, or the gain our non-PRC stockholders may realize from the transfer of our common stock, may be treated as PRC-sourced income and may therefore be subject to a 10% PRC withholding tax. The EIT Law and its implementing regulations are, however, relatively new and ambiguities exist with respect to the interpretation and identification of PRC-sourced income. If we are required under the EIT Law and its implementing regulations to withhold PRC income tax on dividends payable to our non-PRC stockholders, or if non-PRC stockholders are required to pay PRC income tax on gains on the transfer of their shares of common stock, the value of your investment may be materially reduced. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We did not receive any material comments from the SEC staff which were received more than 180 days before the end of 2008, regarding our periodic or current reports that remained unresolved at the date hereof. 