ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to other information in this Report, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating our business, because such factors may have a significant impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition, and could cause our stock price to decline. As a result of the risk factors set forth below and elsewhere in this Report, and the risks discussed in our other Securities and Exchange Commission filings, actual future results could differ materially from historical results or those projected in any forward-looking statements. Risks related to our growth strategy We may be required to increase sales and marketing expenses or change our Small and Medium Business strategy in order to achieve revenue goals if our assumptions about targeted prospects are inaccurate. We plan to increase new client acquisition and lifetime client value by focusing our sales efforts on a targeted group of companies that we have identified as ideal fits for our products and services. We expect to divert marketing expenses from historical lead generating activities toward campaigns directed at these targeted prospects. If our assumptions about these companies and their interest level in our products and services are inaccurate, we may not be able to achieve our acquisition sales targets, and we may be required to increase our marketing spend to compensate for any shortfall in actual conversion rates versus planned conversion rates on these targeted companies. We may fail to attract, hire and retain sales associates who can effectively communicate the value of our products to our clients and prospects, and they may be unable to achieve expected sales targets. We are transforming our Small and Medium Business, or SMB, sales organization from a transactional sales organization to a consultative selling organization. Our hiring profile now includes prior experience in a consultative selling environment. If our existing sales associates are unable to effectively and efficiently transition to a consultative selling process, we will be unable to achieve our projected sales targets. In order to achieve these targets, our sales teams must be able to effectively communicate the value of our products to existing and potential clients. We expect to see increases in client retention rates and in new client acquisition revenue and our sales goals are aggressive. 9 We may not be successful in the development and execution of an enterprise sales and marketing program. We expect to derive a significant portion of our growth from sales to larger businesses, who offer the highest lifetime value to our organization. In the past, we have attempted to grow our enterprise organization, but were not successful in achieving our goals around these initiatives. We believe we now have the right plan and people in place to execute this initiative; however, if we are unsuccessful in driving growth through this channel, our growth rates will suffer. We may not be successful in expanding our channel sales program. We believe there are close to 1.9 million businesses who are “casual users” of government procurement data. These businesses are not part of our new target market, and a portion of our existing client base falls into this category. We intend to focus our sales and marketing efforts on a more profitable target market of approximately 100,000 companies who are “power-users” of government procurement data. This strategy may be at the expense of lower retention rates for existing clients that are outside of this target market. We expect to partner with other companies who market to this audience of smaller businesses routinely, and can serve this market more economically than we can. If we are unsuccessful in accelerating growth in these partnerships, our growth r ates will suffer. The success of clients who are new to the public sector may impact our first year retention rates. The collapse of the commercial development sector and the increase in government spending under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, have increased interest in public sector projects. Companies who have never participated in the public sector are investing in resources, such as Onvia’s services, to help them compete in this marketplace. If or when the private sector recovers, or if companies new to the public sector do not have success in this marketplace, companies new to the public sector may not continue their investment in Onvia’s services and our retention rates may suffer. We may not be able to increase subscriptions to high value products. We expect that a significant portion of future growth will come from increasing annual contract value per client, and we expect this to be driven by increased adoption of our high value products. Subscribers to our high value products have higher annual contract value, higher renewal rates and provide greater lifetime value to us. Failure to increase subscribership to these products would limit our future growth and adversely affect our results of operations. If we cannot effectively satisfy clients across all targeted industry verticals, we may decide to target fewer industries, and as a result, may lose clients. If we find that retention and acquisition rates in any of our focused verticals are not meeting expectations due to lack of bid-flow or for other reasons, we may choose to specialize in fewer industry verticals to improve client satisfaction and retention in the remaining verticals. As a result, we may lose clients in the non-core verticals. A more targeted focus on these core verticals may not generate the expected level of increased retention and acquisition. Our competitors may develop similar technologies that are more broadly accepted in the marketplace. The functionality in the Onvia Online Database is robust, and we expect that if adoption of this product is in line with our expectations that competitors may introduce products with similar functionality. If competitors introduce products with similar functionality or are able to more effectively market and price their products for broad customer acceptance, new client acquisition and existing client retention would be adversely impacted. If we are unable to enhance functionality or increase marketing efforts to offset challenges from competitors, we may lose market share. Rapid advances in technology and new mediums for distributing information may diminish the value of our service offerings. Our business model is predicated on providing access to and analysis of hard to find public and private sector information. Information in general is quickly becoming more accessible at a low cost as new distribution mediums, such as blogs, and new search technologies are developed. We may be unable to keep up with the rapid advances in information collection, and new technologies and mediums may be developed that commoditize the value of our services. If this were to occur, our revenues would suffer. 10 Risks related to our new product strategy We may fail to introduce new content and products that are broadly accepted by clients, and there may be delays in the introduction of these tools and products. We expect to introduce new content in 2011. If client acceptance and adoption of these new products is below our expectations, projected growth rates and client acquisition and retention goals may not be achieved, and financial results would be harmed. We expect to utilize internally developed technology and technology licensed from third parties for the development of new tools and content. If we are unable to develop or acquire the required technology on time, or at all, or if the launch of these new products is delayed for any other reason beyond our anticipated launch dates, projected growth rates may not be achieved. We may be unable to control the cost of ongoing content collection or the cost of collecting new content types to support new product offerings. We will need to identify cost effective sources and develop efficient collection processes for new content types required to support new product development plans. If we are unable to find new ways to collect content efficiently, and aggregate new content types in a cost effective manner, gross margins may decline. We may improperly price new product offerings for broad client acceptance. We may implement price increases with respect to some of our existing products in 2011. We have developed pricing strategies for our existing products, and will be required to develop new pricing strategies for planned new product launches. If existing clients do not perceive that the pricing of our products is commensurate with the value they receive from the products, or if our sales staff is unable to communicate the value of the products, particularly in light of the current economic climate, new client adoption and existing client retention would be adversely impacted. We may overestimate the value of sales and marketing intelligence to companies in the infrastructure marketplace. We believe there is a large unmet market need for robust public sector sales and marketing information. Our business model assumes that clients will pay an annual fee for this information and we expect increases in the annual value of these contracts in the near-term and long-term. If we have overestimated the value of this information, we will not achieve our forecasted revenue goals. Financial, economic and market risks Utilization of our net operating loss carryforwards may be subject to annual limitations under the Internal Revenue Code. We have substantial net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”) that could be used to offset future tax liabilities arising from future taxable income. We are currently analyzing whether an “ownership change” has occurred, as defined under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (which is generally a greater than a 50 percentage point increase by certain “5% shareholders” over a rolling three-year period). Section 382 imposes an annual limitation on the utilization of deferred tax assets, such as NOLs and other tax attributes, once an ownership change has occurred. Depending on the size of the annual limitation (which is, in part, a function of our market capitalization at the time of the ownership change) and the remaining carryforward peri od of the tax assets (U.S. federal net operating losses generally may be carried forward for a period of 20 years), we could realize a permanent loss of a portion of our U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets and certain built-in losses that have not been recognized for tax purposes. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability based on a history of earnings, expectations for future earnings and expected timing of reversals of temporary differences. Realization of deferred tax assets ultimately depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income, including taxable income in prior carryback years, as well as future taxable income. It is possible that we could ultimately lose a significant portion of our deferred tax assets, including as a result of an “ownership change” under Section 382 of the Code, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we determine that we will be unable to realize all or part of the net deferred tax asset, we would adjust this deferred tax asset, which would negat ively impact our financial condition and results of operations. 11 We may not be able to generate positive cash flows from operations. We have not yet demonstrated that we are able to generate positive cash flow from operations on a consistent year over year and quarter over quarter basis, and our business is subject to some seasonal fluctuations. Due to these seasonal fluctuations and limited performance history on client adoption of new products, we may not be able to achieve positive cash flow from operations in the near-term. Our quarterly financial results are subject to fluctuations that may make it difficult to forecast future performance. We have experienced some seasonal fluctuations in our business, reflecting a combination of seasonal trends for the services and products we offer, as well as seasonal trends in the buying habits of target business clients and government agencies. Operating results may continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter, making it difficult to formulate meaningful comparisons of results between quarters. A significant portion of our subscription revenue for a particular quarter is derived from transactions that are initiated in previous quarters, because revenue is generally recognized ratably over the subscription term. Our current and future levels of operating expenses and capital expenditures are based largely on our growth plans and estimates of future revenue. These expenditure levels are, to a large extent, fixed in the short term. We may not be able to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall, and any significant shortfall in revenue relative to planned expenditures could harm our business and results of operations. We implemented anti-takeover provisions that may discourage takeover attempts and depress the market price of our stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, the state of our incorporation, can have the effect of making it difficult for a third-party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include: • the classification of our Board of Directors into three classes so that the directors serve staggered three-year terms, which may make it difficult for a potential acquirer to gain control of our Board; • authorizing the issuance of shares of undesignated preferred stock without a vote of stockholders; and • non-cumulative voting for the election of directors. In addition, in 2002, our Board of Directors adopted a Stockholders’ Rights Agreement, designed to protect stockholder interests in the event of an unsolicited takeover attempt by distributing one preferred stock purchase right for each outstanding share of common stock. The Stockholders’ Rights Agreement may make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us. Political pressure to reduce federal and state spending as a result of federal deficits and state budget shortfalls may lead to reduced spending by government agencies Should agencies reduce spending, there may be fewer revenue opportunities to deliver to our clients. Existing clients that leverage our products primarily for new sales leads may perceive a drop in opportunities as reduction in their return on investment, which could lead to reduced retention rates. In addition, prospects considering an investment in our products may perceive a decline in government spending as a signal that there will be fewer opportunities and they may decide against purchasing a business intelligence solution, or may decide against pursuing a gBusiness strategy all together, which would negatively impact new client acquisition. Operational risks We may not effectively implement new technologies, and new product functionality could fail to perform as designed. We periodically release products that employ new search technologies and complex database architecture in new and innovative ways. These technologies are usually built in house, or purchased from third party vendors and reengineered to meet our operational needs. If the creative application of these technologies does not work as planned or if we implement these new technologies poorly or in incompatible ways, our new products and services may not function properly, delivery of our products could be disrupted or delayed and our client retention and new client acquisition may suffer. 12 System failures could cause an interruption in the services of our network and impact our ability to compile information and deliver our products to clients. Any system failure that causes an interruption in the service of our suite of products, disrupts our ability to aggregate, organize and publish new content, or reduces timely access to and delivery of our content could result in client dissatisfaction, which would impact client acquisition and retention rates. Further, prolonged or ongoing performance problems on our web sites or our application servers, which support bid creation and distribution, could damage our reputation and result in the permanent loss of clients. In the past, system interruptions have made our web sites and application servers totally unavailable, slowed their response time or prevented us from making service available to clients. These problems may occur again in the future. We may not have sufficient business interruption insurance to cover losses from major interruptions. We deployed our primary business application servers to a secure offsite facility with backup utility power and redundant Internet connectivity in 2008. Our current physical and virtual tape drive based disaster recovery systems are not capable of recovering core business functionality in less than a period of several days depending on severity in the event of a disaster scenario at the offsite facility. Production Information Technology and Research department functions will be operational in the event of a local building disaster so that delivery of our products will not be significantly interrupted as long as the offsite facility is still operational. Our disaster recovery plan does not yet include automated failover of product distrib ution-related systems, requiring extensive manual intervention to complete the recovery process which could result in prolonged service interruptions and ultimately lower client satisfaction. In addition, all our platform related servers are in the Seattle area and we do not have redundancy outside this geographical area in case of some natural calamity. Our current technology infrastructure and network software systems may be unable to accommodate our anticipated growth, and we may require a significant investment in these systems to accommodate performance and storage requirements of new and planned products. Expansion of the historical content contained in our Onvia Online Database and future product offerings have and will place significant additional demands on the network and on our database. We add thousands of records to our database each day, which has required us to expand the storage capacity of the database. If new content types or product introductions change current network and database requirements or if growth in our client base exceeds our expectations, we may be required to make significant investments to upgrade our systems to accommodate such changes, which could negatively impact our cash flows and results of operations. We may not be successful in our efforts to upgrade our systems, or if we do successfully upgrade our systems, we may not do so on time and within budget. Failure to achieve a stable te chnological platform in time to handle increasing network traffic may discourage potential clients from using our network. We may not be able to retain the services of our executive officers, directors, senior managers and other key employees, which would harm our business. Our business and operations are substantially dependent on the performance of senior management, directors and key employees. The loss and inability to replace any of these employees or directors would likely harm our business. Political, social or environmental conditions in off-shore locations may impact the collection and delivery of our content and/or development of new products. Portions of our content are aggregated and/or formatted by off-shore vendors. Delivery of that content may be impacted by local political, social or environmental conditions, which may result in delayed delivery to clients resulting in client dissatisfaction. We also outsource portions of the development of new products to off-shore vendors. Political, social or environmental conditions in those locations may result in delays of new product introductions. We may be unable to effectively monitor and prevent unauthorized redistribution of our published information. In the past we have identified a number of entities that have redistributed proprietary information without authorization and against our terms of use. We have been and will continue to be aggressive about monitoring and combating such unauthorized use, and are considering technological avenues for blocking such users from our database. However, if we fail to effectively combat such unauthorized use, our business could be harmed. 13 Our services and products depend upon the continued availability of licensed technology from third parties, and we may not be able to obtain those licenses on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We license, and will continue to license, technology integral to our services and products from third parties. If we are unable to acquire or retain key third-party product licenses or integrate the related third-party products into our network services, our service and product development may be delayed. We also expect to acquire new licenses in the future as our business grows and technology evolves. We may not be able to obtain these licenses on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Increased blocking of our emails could negatively impact client satisfaction with our products and could inhibit the effectiveness of our marketing efforts. Portions of our content are currently delivered in the form of an attached file via email. Some network administrators could flag and block emails from us due to increased filtering of email attachments as a result of the threat of email borne viruses or unwanted “spam” or for other reasons. We also conduct marketing campaigns to our customer base and occasionally these campaigns are done via email. Excessive filtering of our emails could negatively impact client satisfaction and could inhibit our marketing efforts. Regulatory, judicial or legislative risks Any settlement or claim awarded against us in our ongoing litigation matters could negatively impact operating results. We are defending against the litigation matters as referred to in the “Legal Proceedings” section in Note 3 of this Report. While we believe we have a strong defense in this case, we cannot be certain that the outcome of the case will be favorable to us. A settlement or award in this or other potential suits could negatively impact our operating results. It is also possible that defense of this and future claims may result in a significant diversion of management attention. Future regulations could be enacted that either directly restrict our business or indirectly impact our business by limiting the growth of e-commerce. We are subject to laws and regulations governing the Internet and e-commerce. These laws and regulations may cover privacy, content, taxation, data protection, copyrights, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, unencumbered Internet access to our services, the design and operations of websites, and the characteristics and quality of products and services. If enacted, unfavorable laws and regulations could limit the market for our services and offerings. Although many regulations might not apply to the business directly, we expect that laws regulating the collection or processing of personal or consumer information could indirectly affect our business. It is possible that legislation could expose companies involved in e-commerce to restrictions or liability, which could limit the growth of e-commerce generally . Legislation could hinder the growth in Internet use and decrease our acceptance as a medium for communication and commerce. If laws were enacted that made our products taxable at the state level, we may be required to pass those additional taxes along to our customers, which would increase the overall cost of our product to our end users and could impact the buying decisions of existing and potential new clients. Our access to new content from governmental entities and other third parties may be restricted if bid aggregation on the Internet is restricted by law or regulations. We aggregate new information from various public data sources and do not have exclusive access to this content. We cannot ensure that these data sources will continue to be available in the future. Moreover, public disclosure laws, which require governmental entities to produce bid information directly to members of the public, may negatively impact our business and reduce the value of our services to clients. The loss or the unavailability of data sources in the future, or the loss of right to distribute some of the data sources, would harm our business. Our proprietary bid aggregation technology is integral to our success. If the process of bid aggregation becomes regulated in the future and our process for acquiring government bids is no longer cost-effective, our business will be significantly harmed. If new regulations restricting our ability to charge a fee for public bid information are enacted, our business will be significantly harmed. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 14 