ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other factors discussed elsewhere in this report and in other reports we file with the SEC, the following factors could cause our actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. In addition, other risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks or such other risks occur, it could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as cause the value of our common stock to decline. Risks Related to Our Business We expect to continue to incur significant research and development expenses, which may make it difficult for us to attain profitability. We have expended substantial funds to discover and develop our drug candidates and additional substantial funds will be required for further development, including preclinical testing and clinical trials of any product candidates we develop internally. Additional funds will be required to manufacture and market any products we own or retain rights to commercialize that are approved for commercial sale. Because the successful development of our products is uncertain, we are unable to precisely estimate the actual funds we will require to develop and potentially commercialize them. We currently believe that our existing cash resources, will enable us to continue to fund our current operations for at least the next 23 Table of Contents 12 months. However, our ability to obtain additional funding when needed, changes to our operating plans, our existing and anticipated working capital needs, the acceleration or modification of our planned research and development activities or expenditures, increased expenses or other events may affect our need for additional capital in the future. Additional funding may include milestone payments under existing collaborations, up-front fees or research funding through new out-licensing transactions, sales of debt or equity securities and/or securing additional credit facilities. If we are unable to generate enough revenue or secure additional sources of funding and/or reduce our current rate of research and development spending or further reduce our expenses, we may be unable to continue to fund our current operations. Even if we are able to secure the additional sources of funding, it may not be on terms that are favorable or satisfactory to us and may result in significant dilution to our stockholders. These events may result in an inability to maintain a level of liquidity necessary to continue operating our business and the loss of all or part of the investment of our stockholders in our common stock. In addition, if we are unable to maintain certain levels of cash and marketable securities, our obligations under our credit facilities with Deerfield Private Design Fund, L.P. and Deerfield Private Design International Fund, L.P. (who we refer to collectively as Deerfield) and our loan agreement with Comerica Bank may be accelerated. We have a history of operating losses and may not achieve or sustain profitability. We are at an early stage of executing our business plan and we have a limited history of developing and out-licensing our proprietary drug candidates and offering our drug discovery capabilities. We have incurred significant operating and net losses and negative cash flows from operations since our inception. As of June 30, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of $490.8 million. We had net losses of $77.6 million, $127.8 million and $96.3 million for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We expect to incur additional losses and negative cash flows in the future and these losses may continue or increase due in part to anticipated increases in expenses for research and development for proprietary drug discovery, particularly clinical development, expansion of our clinical and scientific capabilities, development of commercial capabilities and acquisitions of complementary technologies. Moreover, if we do achieve profitability, the level of any profitability cannot be predicted and may vary significantly. We may not be successful in entering into additional out-license agreements on favorable terms, which may adversely affect our liquidity or require us to change our spending priorities on our proprietary programs. We are committing significant resources to create our own proprietary drug candidates and to build a commercial-stage biopharmaceutical company. Although spending in fiscal 2010 of $72.5 million in research and development for proprietary drug discovery expenses was down from fiscal years 2009 and 2008, during which we spent $89.6 million and $90.3 million, respectively, we invested and expect to continue to invest significantly in proprietary research. Our proprietary drug discovery programs are in their early stage of development and are unproven. Our ability to continue to fund our planned investment in our proprietary drug programs and in building our commercial capabilities depends to a large degree on up-front fees, milestone payments and other revenue we receive as a result of our partnered programs. To date, we have entered into seven out-licensing agreements for the development and commercialization of our drug candidate and we plan to continue to pursue opportunities in calendar 2011 to partner select clinical candidates to obtain additional capital. We may not be successful, however, in entering into additional out-licensing agreements with favorable terms as a result of factors, many of which are outside of our control and which include: • Our ability to create valuable proprietary drug candidates targeting large market opportunities; • Research and spending priorities of potential licensing partners; • Willingness of and the resources available to, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to in-license drug candidates to fill their clinical pipelines; and • Our ability or inability to generate proof-of-concept data and to agree with a potential partner on the value of proprietary drug candidates we are seeking to out-license, or on the related terms. 24 Table of Contents If we are unable to enter into out-licensing agreements and realize milestone, license and/or upfront fees when anticipated, it may adversely affect our liquidity and we may be forced to curtail or delay development of all or some of our proprietary programs, which in turn may harm our business and the value of our stock. We may not receive royalty or milestone revenue under our collaboration agreements for several years, or at all. Much of our current revenue is non-recurring in nature and unpredictable as to timing and amount. Several of our out-license and collaboration agreements provide for royalties on product sales. However, because none of our drug candidates have been approved for commercial sale, our drug candidates are at early stages of development and drug development entails a high risk of failure, we do not expect to receive any royalty revenue for several years, if at all. For the same reasons, we may never realize much of the milestone revenue provided for in our out-license and collaboration agreements. Similarly, drugs we select to commercialize ourselves or partner for later-stage co-development and commercialization may not generate revenue for several years, or at all. Our drug candidates are at early stages of development and we may not successfully develop a drug candidate that becomes a commercially viable drug. The drug discovery and development process is highly uncertain and we have not developed and may never develop, a drug candidate that ultimately leads to a commercially viable drug. All of our most advanced drug candidates are in the early stages of development, in either Phase 1 or Phase 2 and we do not have any drugs approved for commercial sale. Before a drug product is approved by the FDA, for commercial marketing, it is tested for safety and effectiveness in clinical trials that can take up to six years or longer. Promising results in preclinical development or clinical trials may not be predictive of results obtained in later clinical trials. A number of pharmaceutical companies have experienced significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after obtaining promising results in earlier preclinical and clinical trials. At any time, the FDA may place a clinical trial on clinical hold, or temporarily or permanently stop the trial, for a variety of reasons, principally for safety concerns. We or our collaborators may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, the clinical development process that could delay or prevent our drug candidates from being approved, including: • Failure to achieve clinical trial results that indicate a candidate is effective in treating a specified condition or illness in humans; • Presence of harmful side effects; • Determination by the FDA that the submitted data do not satisfy the criteria for approval; • Lack of commercial viability of the drug; • Failure to acquire, on reasonable terms, intellectual property rights necessary for commercialization; and • Existence of therapeutics that are more effective. We or our collaborators may choose not to commercialize a drug candidate at any time during development, which would reduce or eliminate our potential return on investment for that drug. At any time, we or our collaborators may decide to discontinue the development of a drug candidate or not to commercialize a candidate. If we terminate a program in which we have invested significant resources, we will not receive any return on our investment and we will have missed the opportunity to have allocated those resources to potentially more productive uses. Even if one of our drug candidates receives regulatory approval for marketing, physicians or consumers may not find that its effectiveness, ease of use, side effect profile, cost or other factors make it effective in treating disease or more beneficial than or preferable to other drugs on the market. Additionally, third-party payors, such as government health plans and health insurance plans or maintenance organizations, may choose not to include our drugs on their formulary lists for reimbursement. As a result, our drugs may not be used or may be used only for restricted applications. 25 Table of Contents Our capital requirements could significantly increase if we choose to develop more of our proprietary programs internally. We believe that the maximum value for certain proprietary drug candidates is best achieved by retaining the rights to develop and commercialize the candidate and not seeking a partner or by waiting until later in the development process to seek a partner to co-develop and commercialize or co-promote a product. It is difficult to predict which of our proprietary programs are likely to yield higher returns if we elect to develop them further before seeking a partner or to not seek a partner at all as a result of many factors, including the competitive position of the product, our capital resources, the perceived value among potential partners of the product and other factors outside of our control. Therefore, we may undertake and fund, solely at our expense, further development, clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing activities for a greater number of proprietary candidates than we planned. In addition, we may choose not to out-license certain of our proprietary programs if we are unable to do so on terms that are favorable to us. As a result, our requirements for capital could increase significantly. We may be unable to raise additional required capital on favorable terms, or at all, however, or we may be required to substantially reduce our development efforts, which would delay, limit or prevent our ability to commercialize and realize revenue from our drug candidates. We may not out-license our proprietary programs at the most appropriate time to maximize the total value or return of these programs to us. A critical aspect of our business strategy is to out-license drug candidates for later-stage development, co-development and/or commercialization to obtain the highest possible value while also evaluating earlier out-licensing opportunities to maximize our risk-adjusted return on our investment in proprietary research. Because the costs and risk of failure of bringing a drug to market are high, the value of out-licensing a drug candidate generally increases as it successfully progresses through clinical trials. We may choose or be forced to out-license a drug candidate or program on terms that require us to relinquish commercial or market rights or at a point in the research and development process that does not provide as great a value or return than what might have been obtained if we had further developed the candidate or program internally. Likewise, we may decline, or be unable to obtain favorable, early out-licensing opportunities in programs that do not result in a commercially viable drug, which could leave the resulting program with little or no value even though significant resources were invested in its development. Our inability to successfully out-license our programs on favorable terms could materially adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Because we rely on a small number of collaborators for a significant portion of our revenue, if one or more of our major collaborators terminates or reduces the scope of their agreement with us, our revenue may significantly decrease. A relatively small number of collaborators account for a significant portion of our revenue. Genentech, Amgen and Celgene accounted for 38.6%, 28.2% and 26.1%, respectively, of our total revenue for fiscal 2010. We expect that revenue from Genentech, Amgen and Celgene will continue to account for a large portion of our revenue in future periods. Additionally, Novartis will begin accounting for a large portion of our revenue in future periods. In general, our collaborators may terminate their contracts with us upon 90 to 180 days’ notice for any reason. In addition, some of our major collaborators can determine the scope of research or development activities and whether to continue development of programs we out license under these agreements. As a result, if any one of our major collaborators cancels, declines to renew or reduces the scope of its contract with us, we may not receive milestone, royalties or other payments we anticipate under these agreements and our revenue may significantly decrease. If we need, but are unable to obtain, additional funding to support our operations, we could be unable to successfully execute our operating plan or be forced to reduce our operations. We have historically funded our operations through revenue from our collaborations, the issuance of equity securities and debt financing. Operating activities provided $17.6 million in cash flows in fiscal 2010. 26 Table of Contents However, excluding the $100 million in up-front fees received from Amgen and Novartis under agreements we entered into with them in fiscal 2010, we used $82.4 million in our operating activities in fiscal 2010, while we used $92.9 million and $45.7 million in our operating activities in fiscal 2009 and 2008, respectively. In addition, a portion of our cash flow is dedicated to the payment of principal and interest to and possibly to fund increased compensating and restricted cash balances with, Comerica Bank on our existing senior secured credit facility and to the payment of principal and interest on our credit facility with Deerfield. Our debt obligations could therefore render us more vulnerable to competitive pressures and economic downturns and imposes some restrictions on our operations. Although we anticipate that we will use more cash in our operating activities in future periods, we believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, will be sufficient to support our current operating plan for at least the next 12 months. However, our current operating plan and assumptions could change as a result of many factors and we could require additional funding sooner than anticipated. In addition, we are currently restricted in our ability to liquidate the auction rate securities, or ARS, we hold. Our ARS have an aggregate cost of $26.3 million and fair value as of June 30, 2010 of $16.6 million. If we are unable to meet our capital requirements from cash generated by our future operating activities and are unable to obtain additional funds when needed, we may be required to curtail operations significantly or to obtain funds through other arrangements on unattractive terms, which could prevent us from successfully executing our operating plan. If we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or debt securities, the issuance of those securities would result in dilution to our stockholders. Recent disruptions in the financial markets could affect our ability to obtain financing for development of our proprietary drug programs and other purposes on reasonable terms and have other adverse effects on us and the market price of our common stock. The U.S. stock and credit markets have been experiencing significant price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions, which have caused market prices of many stocks to fluctuate substantially and the spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. These circumstances have materially impacted liquidity in the financial markets, making terms for certain financings less attractive and in some cases have resulted in the unavailability of financing. Continued uncertainty in the stock and credit markets may negatively impact our ability to access additional financing for our research and development activities and other purposes on reasonable terms, which may cause us to curtail or delay our discovery and development efforts and harm our business. In January 2009, we announced plans designed to conserve our existing capital and to allow us to obtain additional capital outside the financial markets by accelerating partnering opportunities and focusing resources on advancing the development of our most advanced clinical programs. As part of these efforts we also reduced our workforce by approximately 40 employees. A prolonged downturn in the financial markets, however, may cause us to seek alternative sources of potentially less attractive financing and may require us to make further adjustments to our business plan. These events also may make it more difficult or costly for us to raise capital through the issuance of equity or debt. The disruptions in the financial markets may have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock and other adverse effects on us and our business. In addition, if we are unable to obtain financing when needed, or to fund our operations from funds received through collaboration agreements, our level of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities may fall below thresholds specified in our debt agreements, requiring us to pay interest at a higher interest rate. Such higher interest rates could also result in a significant increase in the estimated fair value of the embedded derivative liability, which would adversely impact our reported results of operations. Our investments in ARS are not currently liquid and our inability to access these funds may adversely affect our liquidity, capital resources and results of operations. If the issuers of our ARS are unable to successfully close future auctions and credit ratings continue to deteriorate, we may be required to further adjust the carrying value of our investments through additional impairment charges. A portion of our investment portfolio is invested in ARS. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, auctions for all of the ARS were unsuccessful. During fiscal 2009 and 2010, the auctions continued to be 27 Table of Contents unsuccessful. As a result, these securities are no longer readily convertible to cash. In the event we need to access these funds, we will not be able to sell these securities for cash until a future auction on these investments is successful, the original issuers retire these securities or a secondary market develops for these securities. We can make no assurances that any of these events will occur prior to the time that we may need to access these investments or, if they do, what value we will realize on our ARS. In addition, as currently there is not an active market for these securities, we estimated the fair value of these securities using a discounted cash flow model based on assumptions that management believes to be reasonable. Based on the continual decline in fair value and the magnitude of the discount of fair value from par value for these securities, we have recorded other-than-temporary impairment charges as described in Note 3 – Marketable Securities to the audited financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K. If the market makers in these securities are unable to successfully conduct future auctions or the issuer’s credit ratings deteriorate, or if our estimates of fair value later prove to be inaccurate, we may be required to further adjust the carrying value of some or all of these investments through an impairment charge and we may be required to sell them. In addition, if we are required to liquidate these ARS prior to the time auctions for them are successful or the issuer redeems them, we may be required to sell them in a distressed sale in a secondary market most likely for a value that may be lower than their current fair value. If our drug discovery and development programs do not progress as anticipated, our revenue and stock price could be negatively impacted. We estimate the timing of a variety of preclinical, clinical, regulatory and other milestones for planning purposes, including when a drug candidate is expected to enter clinical trials, when a clinical trial will be completed, when and if additional clinical trials will commence, or when an application for regulatory approval will be filed. Some of our estimates are included in this report. We base our estimates on facts that are currently known to us and on a variety of assumptions that may prove not to be correct for a variety of reasons, many of which are beyond our control. For example, delays in the development of drugs by Array or our collaborators may be caused by regulatory or patent issues, negative or inconclusive interim or final results of on-going clinical trials, scheduling conflicts with participating clinics and the availability of patients who meet the criteria for and the rate of patient enrollment in, clinical trials and the development priorities of our collaborators. In addition, in preparing these estimates we rely on the timeliness and accuracy of information and estimates reported or provided to us by our collaborators concerning the timing, progress and results of clinical trials or other development activities they conduct under our collaborations with them. If we or our collaborators do not achieve milestones when anticipated, we may not achieve our planned revenue and our stock price could decline. In addition, any delays in obtaining approvals to market and sell drugs may result in the loss of competitive advantages in being on the market sooner than, or in advance of, competing products, which may reduce the value of these products and the potential revenue we receive from the eventual sale of these products, either directly or under agreements with our partners. We may not realize anticipated benefits from future acquisitions, investments and strategic partnerships. As part of our business strategy, we may acquire, invest in or form strategic partnerships with businesses with complementary products, services and/or technologies. Acquisitions, investments and strategic partnerships involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to: • Difficulties and increased costs in connection with integration of the personnel, operations, technologies and products of acquired companies; • Diversion of management’s attention from other operational matters; • Potential loss of key employees; • Potential loss of key collaborators; • Lack of synergy, or the inability to realize expected synergies, resulting from the acquisition or partnership; and 28 Table of Contents • Impairment of acquired intangible assets as a result of technological advancements or worse-than-expected clinical results or performance of the acquired company or the partnered assets. Acquisitions, investments and strategic partnerships are inherently risky and involve significant investments in time and resources to effectively manage these risks and integrate an acquired business or create a successful drug with a strategic partner. Even with investments in time and resources, an acquisition or strategic partnership may not produce the revenues, earnings or business synergies we anticipate. An acquisition or strategic partnership that fails to meet our expectations could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to recruit and retain the experienced scientists and management we need to compete in the drug research and development industry. We have 340 employees as of June 30, 2010 and our future success depends upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled scientists and management. Our ability to achieve our business strategies, including progressing drug candidates through later stage development or commercialization, attracting new collaborators and retaining, renewing and expanding existing collaborations, depends on our ability to hire and retain high caliber scientists and other qualified experts, particularly in clinical development and commercialization. We compete with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, contract research companies and academic and research institutions to recruit personnel and face significant competition for qualified personnel, particularly clinical development personnel. We may incur greater costs than anticipated, or may not be successful, in attracting new scientists or management or in retaining or motivating our existing personnel. Our future success also depends on the personal efforts and abilities of the principal members of our senior management and scientific staff to provide strategic direction, manage our operations and maintain a cohesive and stable environment. In particular, we rely on the services of Robert E. Conway, our Chief Executive Officer; Dr. Kevin Koch, our President and Chief Scientific Officer; Dr. David L. Snitman, our Chief Operating Officer and Vice President, Business Development; R. Michael Carruthers, our Chief Financial Officer; and John R. Moore, our Vice President and General Counsel. We have employment agreements with all of the above personnel that are terminable upon 30 days’ prior notice. Risks Related to Our Clinical Development Activities and Obtaining Regulatory Approval for Our Programs We have limited clinical development and commercialization experience. One of our business strategies is to develop select drug candidates through later stage clinical trials before out-licensing them to a pharmaceutical or biotechnology partner for further clinical development and commercialization and to commercialize select drug candidates ourselves. We have not yet conducted a Phase 3 or later stage clinical trial ourselves, nor have we commercialized a drug. We have limited experience conducting clinical trials and obtaining regulatory approvals and we may not be successful in some or all of these activities. We have no experience as a company in the sales, marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical products and do not currently have a sales and marketing organization. We expect to expend significant amounts to recruit and retain high quality personnel with clinical development experience. Developing commercialization capabilities would be expensive and time-consuming and could delay any product launch and we may never be able to develop this capacity. To the extent we are unable to or determine not to develop these resources internally, we may be forced to rely on third-party clinical investigators, or clinical research or marketing organizations, which could subject us to costs and to delays that are outside our control. If we are unable to establish adequate capabilities independently or with others, we may be unable to generate product revenues for certain candidates. 29 Table of Contents If we fail to adequately conduct clinical trials, we may not obtain regulatory approvals necessary for the sale of drugs when anticipated, or at all, which would reduce or eliminate our potential return on that program. Before any of our drug candidates can be sold commercially, we or our collaborators must conduct clinical trials that demonstrate that the drug is safe and effective for use in humans for the indications sought. The results of these clinical trials are used as the basis to obtain regulatory approval from government authorities such as the FDA. Conducting clinical trials is a complex, time-consuming and expensive process that requires an appropriate number of trial sites and patients to support the product label claims being sought. The length of time, number of trial sites and number of patients required for clinical trials vary substantially according to their type, complexity, novelty and the drug candidate’s intended use and therefore, we may spend as much as several years completing certain trials. Further, the time within which we can complete our clinical trials depends in large part on the ability to enroll eligible patients that meet the enrollment criteria and who are in proximity to the trial sites. We and our collaborators also face competition with other clinical trials for eligible patients. As a consequence, there may be limited availability of eligible patients, which can result in increased development costs, delays in regulatory approvals and associated delays in drug candidates reaching the market. Patients may also suffer adverse medical events or side effects in the course of our clinical trials that may delay or prohibit regulatory approval of our drug candidates. Even if we or our collaborators successfully conduct clinical trials, we or our collaborators may not obtain favorable clinical trial results and may not be able to obtain regulatory approval on this basis. In addition, to execute our clinical development plans, we need to accelerate the growth of our clinical development organization and increase dependence on third-party clinical trial service providers. We anticipate that we will be required to contract with clinical sites and enroll patients in a number of new geographic locations where our experience conducting clinical trials is more limited, including some countries in Eastern Europe, South America and in India. We are conducting and plan to conduct, further clinical trial activities in territories outside the U.S. through third-party clinical trial service providers. Some of these foreign jurisdictions may impose requirements on us or our third-party clinical trial service providers or contract manufacturers that are more stringent than those imposed by the FDA, which may delay the development and approval of our drug candidates. If we or our collaborators fail to adequately manage the increasing number, size and complexity of clinical trials, the clinical trials and corresponding regulatory approvals may be delayed or we or our collaborators may fail to gain approval for our drug candidates altogether. If we or our collaborators are unable to market and sell our drug candidates or are unable to obtain approvals in the timeframe needed to execute our product strategies, our business and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Delays in the commencement or completion of clinical testing could result in increased costs to us and delay or limit our ability to generate revenues. Delays in the commencement or completion of clinical testing of our products could significantly affect our product development costs and our ability to generate revenue from these products. We do not know whether planned clinical trials will begin on time or be completed on schedule, if at all. The commencement and completion of clinical trials can be delayed for a number of reasons, including delays related to our ability to do the following: • Obtain regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial; • Reach agreement on acceptable terms with prospective clinical research organizations, or CROs, and trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs and trial sites; • Select CROs, trial sites and, where necessary, contract manufacturers that do not encounter any regulatory compliance problems; • Manufacture sufficient quantities of a product candidate for use in clinical trials; • Obtain institutional review board, or IRB, approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site; 30 Table of Contents • Recruit and enroll patients to participate in clinical trials, which can be impacted by many factors outside our control, including competition from other clinical trial programs for the same or similar indications; and • Retain patients who have initiated a clinical trial but may be prone to withdraw due to side effects from the therapy, lack of efficacy or personal issues. Clinical trials may also be delayed as a result of ambiguous or negative interim results. In addition, a clinical trial may be suspended or terminated by us, the FDA, the IRB overseeing the clinical trial at issue, any of our clinical trial sites with respect to that site, or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including: • Failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements (including Good Clinical Practices, or GCP) or our clinical protocols; • Inspection of the clinical trial operations, trial sites or manufacturing facility by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in findings of non-compliance and the imposition of a clinical hold; • Unforeseen safety issues or results that do not demonstrate efficacy; and • Lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial. Additionally, changes in regulatory requirements and guidance may occur and we may need to amend clinical trial protocols to reflect these changes. Amendments may require us to resubmit our clinical trial protocols to IRBs for reexamination, which may impact the costs, timing or successful completion of a clinical trial. If we experience delays in completion of, or if we terminate, any of our clinical trials, the commercial prospects for our product candidates may be harmed and our ability to generate product revenues will be delayed and/or reduced. In addition, many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of a product candidate. Drug candidates that we develop with our collaborators or on our own may not receive regulatory approval. The development and commercialization of drug candidates for our collaborators and our own internal drug discovery efforts are subject to regulation. Pharmaceutical products require lengthy and costly testing in animals and humans and regulatory approval by governmental agencies prior to commercialization. It takes several years to complete testing and failure can occur at any stage of the testing. Results attained in preclinical testing and early clinical trials for any of our drug candidates may not be indicative of results that are obtained in later studies and significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials may arise, even after promising results in earlier studies. Clinical trials may not demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals or result in marketable products. Furthermore, data obtained from preclinical and clinical studies are susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. In addition, the administration of any drug candidate we develop may produce undesirable side effects or safety issues that could result in the interruption, delay or suspension of clinical trials, or the failure to obtain FDA or other regulatory approval for any or all targeted indications. Based on results at any stage of testing, we or our collaborators may decide to repeat or redesign a trial or discontinue development of a drug candidate. Approval of a drug candidate as safe and effective for use in humans is never certain and regulatory agencies may delay or deny approval of drug candidates for commercialization. These agencies may also delay or deny approval based on additional government regulation or administrative action, on changes in regulatory policy during the period of clinical trials in humans and regulatory review or on the availability of alternative treatments. Similar delays and denials may be encountered in foreign countries. None of our collaborators have obtained regulatory approval to manufacture and sell drug candidates owned by us or identified or developed under an agreement with us. If we or our collaborators cannot obtain this approval, we will not realize milestone or royalty payments based on commercialization goals for these drug candidates. 31 Table of Contents In light of widely publicized events concerning the safety of certain drug products, such as Avandia® (rosiglitazone), regulatory authorities, members of Congress, the Government Accountability Office, medical professionals and the general public have raised concerns about potential postmarketing drug safety issues. These events have resulted in the withdrawal of drug products, revisions to drug labeling that further limit use of the drug products and establishment of risk evaluations and mitigation strategies, or REMS, that may, for instance, restrict distribution of drug products and impose burdensome implementation requirements on the company. Although drug safety concerns have occurred over time, the increased attention to this issue may result in a more cautious approach by the FDA. As a result, data from clinical trials may receive greater scrutiny with respect to safety. Safety concerns may result in the FDA or other regulatory authorities terminating clinical trials before completion or requiring longer or additional clinical trials that may result in substantial additional expense and a delay or failure in obtaining approval or approval for a more limited indication than originally sought. Even if our drug candidates obtain regulatory approval, we and our collaborators will be subject to ongoing government regulation. Even if regulatory authorities approve any of our drug candidates, the manufacture, labeling, storage, recordkeeping, distribution, marketing and sale of these drugs will be subject to strict and ongoing regulation. Compliance with this regulation consumes substantial financial and management resources and may expose us and our collaborators to the potential for other adverse circumstances. For example, approval for a drug may be conditioned on costly post-marketing follow-up studies. Based on these studies, if a regulatory authority does not believe that the drug demonstrates a clinical benefit to patients, it could limit the indications for which a drug may be sold or revoke the drug’s marketing approval. In addition, identification of certain side effects after a drug is on the market may result in the subsequent withdrawal of approval, reformulation of a drug, additional preclinical and clinical trials, changes in labeling or distribution, or we may be required by FDA to develop and implement a REMS to ensure the safe use of our products. Any of these events could delay or prevent us from generating revenue from the commercialization of these drugs and cause us to incur significant additional costs. Given the number of high profile safety events with certain drug products, the FDA may require, as a condition of approval, a REMS that includes costly risk management programs with components including safety surveillance, restricted distribution and use, patient education, enhanced labeling, special packaging or labeling, expedited reporting of certain adverse events, pre-approval of promotional materials and restrictions on direct-to-consumer advertising. Furthermore, heightened Congressional scrutiny on the adequacy of the FDA’s drug approval process and the agency’s efforts to assure the safety of marketed drugs has resulted in the proposal of new legislation addressing drug safety issues. If enacted, any new legislation could result in delays or increased costs for manufacturers and drug sponsors during the period of product development, clinical trials and regulatory review and approval, as well as increased costs to assure compliance with any new post-approval regulatory requirements. In addition, the marketing of these drugs by us or our collaborators will be regulated by federal and state laws pertaining to health care “fraud and abuse,” such as the federal anti-kickback law prohibiting bribes, kickbacks or other remuneration for the order, purchase or recommendation of items or services reimbursed by federal health care programs. Many states have similar laws applicable to items or services reimbursed by commercial insurers. Violations of fraud and abuse laws can result in fines and/or imprisonment. If our drug candidates do not gain market acceptance, we may be unable to generate significant revenue. Even if our drug candidates are approved for sale, they may not be successful in the marketplace. Market acceptance of any of our drug candidates will depend on a number of factors including: • Demonstration of clinical effectiveness and safety; • Potential advantages of our drug candidates over alternative treatments; 32 Table of Contents • Ability to offer our drug candidates for sale at competitive prices; • Availability of adequate third-party reimbursement; and • Effectiveness of marketing and distribution methods for the products. If our drug candidates do not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients and others in the medical community, our ability to generate meaningful revenues from our drug candidates would be limited. Our collaborators have substantial control and discretion over the timing and the continued development and marketing of drug candidates we create for them. Our collaborators have significant discretion in determining the efforts and amount of resources that they dedicate to our collaborations. Our collaborators may decide not to proceed with clinical development or commercialization of a particular drug candidate for any number of reasons that are beyond our control, even under circumstances where we might have continued such a program. In addition, our ability to generate milestone payments and royalties from our collaborators depends on our collaborators’ abilities to establish the safety and efficacy of our drug candidates, obtain regulatory approvals and achieve market acceptance of products developed from our drug candidates. We also depend on our collaborators to manufacture clinical scale quantities of some of our drug candidates and would depend on them in the future for commercial scale manufacture, distribution and direct sales. Our collaborators may not be successful in manufacturing our drug candidates on a commercial scale or in successfully commercializing them. We face additional risks in connection with our collaborations, including the following: • Collaborators may develop and commercialize, either alone or with others, products and services that are similar to, or competitive with, the products that are the subject of the collaboration with us; • Collaborators may under-fund or not commit sufficient resources to the testing, marketing, distribution or other development of our drug candidates; • Collaborators may not properly maintain or defend our intellectual property rights or they may utilize our proprietary information in such a way as to invite litigation that could jeopardize or potentially invalidate our intellectual property or proprietary information or expose us to potential liability; • Collaborators may encounter conflicts of interest, changes in business strategy or other business issues which could adversely affect their willingness or ability to fulfill their obligations to us (for example, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies historically have re-evaluated their priorities following mergers and consolidations, which have been common in recent years in these industries); and • Disputes may arise between us and our collaborators delaying or terminating the research, development or commercialization of our drug candidates, resulting in significant litigation or arbitration that could be time-consuming and expensive, or causing collaborators to act in their own self-interest and not in the interest of our stockholders. Our cGMP and Pharmacology facilities and practices may fail to comply with government regulations. All facilities and manufacturing processes used in the production of drug products, including APIs for clinical use in the U.S., must be operated in conformity with cGMP as established by the FDA. Similar requirements in other countries exist for manufacture of drug products for clinical use. These requirements include, among other things, quality control, quality assurance and the maintenance of records and documentation. If we or any contract manufacturers we use fail to comply with these requirements, we may not be able to continue the production of our products and we could be subject to civil and criminal fines and penalties, suspension of production, suspension or delay in product approval, product seizure or recall, or withdrawal of product approval. We operate a clinical-scale manufacturing facility that we believe conforms to cGMP requirements. This facility and our cGMP practices are subject to periodic regulatory inspections to ensure compliance with cGMP requirements. In addition, we could be required to comply with specific 33 Table of Contents requirements or specifications of other countries and/or of our collaborators, which may exceed applicable regulatory requirements. Failure on our part to comply with applicable regulations and specific requirements or specifications of other countries and/or our collaborators could result in the termination of ongoing research, disqualification of data for submission to regulatory authorities, delays or denials of new product approvals, warning letters, fines, consent decrees restricting or suspending manufacturing operations, injunctions, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products and criminal prosecution. Material violations of cGMP requirements could result in regulatory sanctions and, in severe cases, could result in a mandated closing of our cGMP facility. In connection with our application for commercial approvals and, if any drug candidate is approved by the FDA or other regulatory agencies for commercial sale, a significant scale-up in manufacturing may require additional validation studies. If we are unable to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity for a drug candidate, the regulatory approval or commercial launch of that drug candidate may be delayed, or there may be a shortage of supply, which could limit our ability to commercialize the drug. In addition, our pharmacology facility may be subject to FDA Good Laboratory Practices, or GLP, and the USDA regulations for certain animal species. Failure on our part to comply with applicable regulations and specific requirements of our collaborators could result in the termination of ongoing pharmacology research. Material violations of GLP and USDA requirements could result in additional regulatory sanctions and, in severe cases, could result in a mandated closing of our pharmacology facility for certain species. Our development, testing and manufacture of drug candidates may expose us to product liability and other lawsuits. We develop, test and manufacture drug candidates that are generally intended for use in humans. Our drug discovery and development activities, including clinical trials we or our collaborators conduct, that result in the future manufacture and sale of drugs by us or our collaborators expose us to the risk of liability for personal injury or death to persons using these drug candidates. We may be required to pay substantial damages or incur legal costs in connection with defending any of these product liability claims, or we may not receive revenue from expected royalty or milestone payments if the commercialization of a drug is limited or ceases as a result of such claims. We have product liability insurance that contains customary exclusions and provides coverage up to $10 million per occurrence and in the aggregate, which we believe is customary in our industry for our current operations. However, our product liability insurance does not cover every type of product liability claim that we may face or loss we may incur and may not adequately compensate us for the entire amount of covered claims or losses or for the harm to our business reputation. We may be unable to acquire or maintain additional or maintain our current insurance policies at acceptable costs or at all. If our use of chemical and hazardous materials violates applicable laws or regulations or causes personal injury we may be liable for damages. Our drug discovery activities, including the analysis and synthesis of chemical compounds, involve the controlled use of chemicals, including flammable, combustible, toxic and radioactive materials that are potentially hazardous. Our use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations, including the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Occupational Safety and Health Act and local fire codes and regulations promulgated by the Department of Transportation, the Drug Enforcement Agency, the Department of Energy, the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment and the Colorado Department of Human Services, Alcohol and Drug Abuse Division. We may incur significant costs to comply with these laws and regulations in the future. In addition, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials, which could result in material unanticipated expenses, such as substantial fines or penalties, remediation costs or damages, or the loss of a permit or other authorization to operate or engage in our business. Those expenses could exceed our net worth and limit our ability to raise additional capital. 34 Table of Contents Our operations could be interrupted by damage to our specialized laboratory facilities. Our operations depend on the continued use of our highly specialized laboratories and equipment in Boulder and Longmont, Colorado. Catastrophic events, including fires or explosions, could damage our laboratories, equipment, scientific data, work in progress or inventories of chemical compounds and may materially interrupt our business. We employ safety precautions in our laboratory activities in order to reduce the likelihood of the occurrence of these catastrophic events; however, we cannot eliminate the chance that such an event will occur. The availability of laboratory space in these locations is limited and rebuilding our facilities could be time consuming and result in substantial delays in fulfilling our agreements with our collaborators. We maintain business interruption insurance in the amount of $18 million to cover continuing expenses and lost revenue caused by such occurrences. However, this insurance does not compensate us for the loss of opportunity and potential harm to customer relations that our inability to meet our collaborators’ needs in a timely manner could create. Due to our reliance on contract research organizations and other third parties to conduct our clinical trials, we are unable to directly control the timing, conduct and expense of our clinical trials. We rely primarily on third parties to conduct our clinical trials. As a result, we have had and will continue to have less control over the conduct of our clinical trials, the timing and completion of the trials, the required reporting of adverse events and the management of data developed through the trial than would be the case if we were relying entirely upon our own staff. Communicating with outside parties can also be challenging, potentially leading to mistakes as well as difficulties in coordinating activities. Outside parties may have staffing difficulties, may undergo changes in priorities or may become financially distressed, adversely affecting their willingness or ability to conduct our trials. We may experience unexpected cost increases that are beyond our control. Problems with the timeliness or quality of the work of a contract research organization may lead us to seek to terminate the relationship and use an alternative service provider. However, making this change may be costly and may delay our trials and contractual restrictions may make such a change difficult or impossible. Additionally, it may be impossible to find a replacement organization that can conduct our trials in an acceptable manner and at an acceptable cost. Controls we or our third-party service providers have in place to ensure compliance with laws may not be effective to ensure compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. The discovery and development of our products, together with our general operations, are subject to extensive regulation in the U.S. by state and federal agencies and, as we begin to conduct clinical trials and other activities outside the U.S., in foreign countries. Due to escalating costs and difficulties associated with conducting certain types of clinical trials in the U.S., we expect that we will be required to conduct certain clinical trials in foreign locations where we have little experience, including countries in Eastern Europe, South America and India. We expect that we typically will conduct these trials through third-party clinical trial service providers. In addition, we purchase from third-party suppliers and manufacturers that are located outside the U.S., principally countries in Europe, intermediate and bulk API that are used in our development efforts. As a result, we and our contractors are subject to regulations in the U.S. and in the foreign countries in which the API is sourced and manufactured relating to the cross-border shipment of pharmaceutical ingredients. Although we have developed and instituted controls based on what we believe to be current best practices, we, our employees, our consultants or our contractors may not be in compliance with all potentially applicable U.S. federal and state regulations and/or laws or all potentially applicable foreign regulations and/or laws. Further, we have a limited ability to monitor and control the activities of third-party service providers, suppliers and manufacturers to ensure compliance by such parties with all applicable regulations and/or laws. We may be subject to direct liabilities or be required to indemnify such parties against certain liabilities arising out of any failure by them to comply with such regulations and/or laws. If we or our employees, consultants or contractors fail to comply with any of these regulations and/or laws a range of actions could result, including, but not limited to, the termination of clinical trials, the failure to approve a product candidate, restrictions on our products or manufacturing 35 Table of Contents processes, including withdrawal of our products from the market, significant fines, exclusion from government healthcare programs or other sanctions or litigation. Risks Related to Our Drug Discovery Activities Revenue from collaborations depends on the extent to which the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries collaborate with other companies for one or more aspects of their drug discovery process. Our capabilities include aspects of the drug discovery process that pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have traditionally performed internally. The willingness of these companies to expand or continue drug discovery collaborations to enhance their research and development process is based on several factors that are beyond our control, any of which could cause our revenue to decline. These include their ability to hire and retain qualified scientists, the resources available for entering into drug discovery collaborations and the spending priorities among various types of research activities. In addition, our ability to convince these companies to use our drug discovery capabilities, rather than develop them internally, depends on many factors, including our ability to: • Develop and implement drug discovery technologies that will result in the identification of higher-quality drug candidates; • Attract and retain experienced, high caliber scientists; • Achieve timely, high-quality results at an acceptable cost; and • Design, create and manufacture our chemical compounds in quantities, at purity levels and at costs that are acceptable to our collaborators. The importance of these factors varies depending on the company and type of discovery program and we may be unable to meet any or all of them in the future. Even if we are able to address these factors, these companies may still decide to perform these activities internally or retain other companies that provide drug research and development expertise similar to ours. Our research and development capabilities may not produce viable drug candidates. We have entered into several research and development collaborations under which we provide drug discovery and development services to identify drug candidates for our collaborators. We also seek to identify and develop drug candidates for our proprietary programs. It is uncertain whether we will be able to provide drug discovery more efficiently or create high quality drug candidates that are suitable for our or our collaborators’ purposes, which may result in delayed or lost revenue, loss of collaborators or failure to expand our existing relationships. Our ability to create viable drug candidates for ourselves and our collaborators depends on many factors, including the implementation of appropriate technologies, the development of effective new research tools, the complexity of the chemistry and biology, the lack of predictability in the scientific process and the performance and decision-making capabilities of our scientists. Our information-driven technology platform, which we believe allows our scientists to make better decisions, may not enable our scientists to make correct decisions or develop viable drug candidates. Risks Related To Our Industry The concentration of the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry and any further consolidation could reduce the number of our potential collaborators. There are a limited number of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and these companies represent a significant portion of the market for our capabilities. The number of our potential collaborators could decline even further through consolidation among these companies. If the number of our potential collaborators declines even further, they may be able to negotiate greater rights to the intellectual property they license from us, price discounts or other terms that are unfavorable to us. 36 Table of Contents Capital market conditions may reduce our biotechnology collaborators’ ability to fund research and development. Traditionally, many unprofitable biotechnology companies have funded their research and development expenditures through raising capital in the equity markets. Declines and uncertainties in these markets have severely restricted their ability to raise new capital and to continue to expand or fund existing research and development efforts. If our current or future biotechnology collaborators are unable to raise sufficient capital to fund research and development expenditures, we may not be able to expand or maintain current revenue. Health care reform, including those based on recently enacted legislation and cost control initiatives by third-party payors could reduce the prices that can be charged for drugs, which could limit the commercial success of our drug candidates. In March 2010, the President signed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, or the “Healthcare Reform Act.” This law substantially changes the way health care is financed by both governmental and private insurers and significantly impacts the pharmaceutical industry. The Healthcare Reform Act contains a number of provisions that will be expected to impact our business and operations, in some cases in ways we cannot currently predict. Changes that may affect our business include those governing enrollment in federal healthcare programs, reimbursement changes and fraud and abuse enforcement. These changes will impact existing government healthcare programs and will result in the development of new programs, including Medicare payment for performance initiatives and improvements to the physician quality reporting system and feedback program. Additional provisions of the Healthcare Reform Act, some of which become effective in 2011, may negatively affect any associated product revenues and prospects for continued profitability in the future. For example, the Healthcare Reform Act imposes a non-deductible excise tax on pharmaceutical manufacturers or importers that sell branded prescription drugs to U.S. government programs that may impact any associated product revenue and therefore revenue we are entitled to receive from royalties on product sales. In addition, as part of the Healthcare Reform Act’s provisions closing a funding gap that currently exists in the Medicare Part D prescription drug program (commonly known as the “donut hole”), manufacturers of branded prescription drugs will be required to provide a 50% discount on drugs dispensed to beneficiaries within this donut hole. We expect that the Healthcare Reform Act and other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future could have a material adverse effect on our industry generally and on the ability of Array or our collaborators to successfully commercialize product candidates or could limit or eliminate our future spending on development projects. In addition to the Healthcare Reform Act, there will continue to be proposals by legislators at both the federal and state levels, regulators and third-party payors to keep healthcare costs down while expanding individual healthcare benefits. Certain of these changes could limit the prices that can be charged for drugs we develop or the amounts of reimbursement available for these products from governmental agencies or third-party payors, or may increase the tax obligations on pharmaceutical companies, increase our rebate liability and may limit our commercial opportunity and reduce any associated revenue and profits. For example, federal laws require drug manufacturers to pay specified rebates to each state Medicaid program for medicines reimbursed by Medicaid and to provide discounts for out-patient medicines purchased by certain public health service entities and “disproportionate share” hospitals and for purchases by some federal governmental departments such as the Department of Veterans Affairs and the Department of Defense. Rebates are based on pricing data reported by us on a monthly and quarterly basis to the Centers for Medicare and Medicare Services, the federal agency which administers the Medicaid drug rebate program. These data include the average manufacturer price, or AMP, and in the case of innovator products, the best price for each drug. As a result of the enactment of the Healthcare Reform Act, rebates now also will be due on the utilization of Medicaid managed care organizations, effective March 23, 2010. 37 Table of Contents Pursuant to the Healthcare Reform Act, the amount of the Medicaid rebate for each unit of a drug has been increased. For innovator products, in general a drug marketed under a new drug application, or NDA, the minimum rebate has been increased from 15.1% to 23.1% of the AMP for that product, or if it is greater, the difference between the AMP and the best price for the drug. The Medicaid rebate for innovator products also includes an additional rebate amount if price increases for the drug exceed the rate of inflation since the product’s launch. The Healthcare Reform Act also caps the total rebate amount for innovator drugs at 100% of the AMP for the drug. In addition, the Healthcare Reform Act changes the definition of AMP and there is additional legislation that is currently pending that would further amend the AMP definition. Regulations have not been adopted to implement any of the enacted statutory changes. There may be additional increases in rebates or other costs and charges from government agencies. Regulations continue to be issued and coverage expanded by various governmental agencies relating to these programs, increasing the cost and complexity of compliance. It is possible that health reform will expand the number of public health service entities that receive discounted product and increase our rebate liability on drugs reimbursed by Medicaid. In some countries other than the U.S., reimbursement, pricing and profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals and biopharmaceuticals are subject to government control. We are unable to predict what additional legislation or regulation, if any, relating to the healthcare industry or third-party coverage and reimbursement may be enacted in the future or what effect such legislation or regulation would have on our business. Also, we expect managed care plans will continue to put pressure on the pricing of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical products due to a trend toward managed health care, the increasing influence of health maintenance organizations and additional legislative proposals. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price that we, or any potential collaborators, receive for any of our future products, which could adversely affect our profitability. These initiatives may also have the effect of reducing the resources that pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can devote to in-licensing drug candidates and the research and development of new drugs, which could reduce our resulting revenue. Any cost containment measures or other reforms that are adopted could have a negative impact on our ability to commercialize successfully our products or could limit or eliminate our spending on development of new drugs and affect our profitability. We, or our collaborators, may not obtain favorable reimbursement rates for our drug candidates. The commercial success of our drug candidates will depend on the availability and adequacy of coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors, including government and private insurance plans. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for pharmaceuticals and other medical products. Our products may be considered less cost-effective than existing products and, as such, coverage and reimbursement to the patient may not be available or be sufficient to allow the sale of our products on a competitive basis. In addition, the market for our drug candidates will depend significantly on access to third-party payors’ drug formularies, or lists of medications for which third-party payors provide coverage and reimbursement. Industry competition to be included in such formularies can result in downward pricing pressures on pharmaceutical companies. As such, we cannot provide assurances that our products will be placed on third-party payors’ formularies. To the extent that our products are listed on third-party payors’ formularies, we or our collaborators may not be able to negotiate favorable reimbursement rates for our products. If we, or our collaborators, fail to obtain an adequate level of reimbursement for our products by third-party payors, sales of the drugs would be adversely affected or there may be no commercially viable market for the products. 38 Table of Contents The drug research and development industry has a history of patent and other intellectual property litigation and we may be involved in costly intellectual property lawsuits. The drug research and development industry has a history of patent and other intellectual property litigation and we believe these lawsuits are likely to continue. Legal proceedings relating to intellectual property would be expensive, take significant time and divert management’s attention from other business concerns. Because we produce drug candidates for a broad range of therapeutic areas and provide many different capabilities in this industry, we face potential patent infringement suits by companies that control patents for similar drug candidates or capabilities or other suits alleging infringement of their intellectual property rights. There could be issued patents of which we are not aware that our products infringe or patents that we believe we do not infringe that we are ultimately found to infringe. Moreover, patent applications are in many cases maintained in secrecy for 18 months after filing or even until patents are issued. The publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature frequently occurs substantially later than the date on which the underlying discoveries were made and patent applications were filed. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications of which we are unaware that may later result in issued patents that we infringe with our products. In addition, technology created under our research and development collaborations may infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties, in which case we may not receive milestone or royalty revenue from those collaborations. If we do not prevail in an infringement lawsuit brought against us, we might have to pay substantial damages, including triple damages and we could be required to stop the infringing activity or obtain a license to use the patented technology or redesign our products so as not to infringe the patent. We may not be able to enter into licensing arrangements at a reasonable cost or effectively redesign our products. Any inability to secure licenses or alternative technology could delay the introduction of our products or prevent us from manufacturing or selling products. The intellectual property rights we rely on to protect our proprietary drug candidates and the technology underlying our tools and techniques may be inadequate to prevent third parties from using our technology or developing competing capabilities or to protect our interests in our proprietary drug candidates. Our success depends in part on our ability to protect patents and maintain the secrecy of proprietary processes and other technologies we develop for the testing and synthesis of chemical compounds in the drug discovery process. We currently have numerous U.S. patents and patent applications on file with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office as well as around the world. Any patents that we may own or license now or in the future may not afford meaningful protection for our drug candidates or our technology and tools. In order to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, we may have to initiate legal proceedings against third parties. Our efforts to enforce and maintain our intellectual property rights may not be successful and may result in substantial costs and diversion of management time. In addition, other companies may challenge our patents and, as a result, these patents could be narrowed, invalidated or rendered unenforceable, or we may be forced to stop using the technology covered by these patents or to license the technology from third parties. In addition, current and future patent applications on which we depend may not result in the issuance of patents in the U.S. or foreign countries. Even if our rights are valid, enforceable and broad in scope, competitors may develop drug candidates or other products based on similar research or technology that is not covered by our patents. Patent applications relating to or affecting our business may have been filed by a number of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies and academic institutions. A number of the technologies in these applications or patents may conflict with our technologies, patents or patent applications, which could reduce the scope of patent protection we could otherwise obtain. We could also become involved in interference proceedings in connection with one or more of our patents or patent applications to determine priority of inventions. We cannot be certain that we are the first creator of inventions covered by pending patent applications, or that we were the first to file patent applications for any such inventions. 39 Table of Contents Drug candidates we develop that are approved for commercial marketing by the FDA would be eligible for market exclusivity for varying time periods during which generic versions of a drug may not be marketed and we could apply to extend patent protection for up to five additional years under the provisions of the Hatch-Waxman Act. The Hatch-Waxman Act provides a means for approving generic versions of a drug once the marketing exclusivity period has ended and all relevant patents have expired. The period of exclusive marketing, however, may be shortened if a patent is successfully challenged and defeated, which could reduce the amount of royalties we receive on the product. Agreements we have with our employees, consultants and collaborators may not afford adequate protection for our trade secrets, confidential information and other proprietary information. In addition to patent protection, we also rely on copyright and trademark protection, trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovation and licensing opportunities. In an effort to maintain the confidentiality and ownership of our trade secrets and proprietary information, we require our employees, consultants and advisors to execute confidentiality and proprietary information agreements. However, these agreements may not provide us with adequate protection against improper use or disclosure of confidential information and there may not be adequate remedies in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. Furthermore, we may from time to time hire scientific personnel formerly employed by other companies involved in one or more areas similar to the activities we conduct. In some situations, our confidentiality and proprietary information agreements may conflict with, or be subject to, the rights of third parties with whom our employees, consultants or advisors have prior employment or consulting relationships. Although we require our employees and consultants to maintain the confidentiality of all proprietary information of their previous employers, these individuals, or we, may be subject to allegations of trade secret misappropriation or other similar claims as a result of their prior affiliations. Finally, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Our failure or inability to protect our proprietary information and techniques may inhibit or limit our ability to compete effectively, or exclude certain competitors from the market. The drug research and development industry is highly competitive and we compete with some companies that offer a broader range of capabilities and have better access to resources than we do. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are characterized by rapid and continuous technological innovation. We compete with many companies worldwide that are engaged in the research and discovery, licensing, development and commercialization of drug candidates. Some of our competitors have a broader range of capabilities and have greater access to financial, technical, scientific, regulatory, business development, recruiting and other resources than we do. Their access to greater resources may allow them to develop processes or products that are more effective, safer or less costly, or gain greater market acceptance, than products we develop or for which they obtain FDA approval more rapidly than we do. We anticipate that we will face increased competition in the future as new companies enter the market and advanced technologies become available. We face potential liability related to the privacy of health information we obtain from research institutions. Most health care providers, including research institutions from which we or our collaborators obtain patient information, are subject to privacy regulations promulgated under HIPAA. Our clinical research efforts are not directly regulated by HIPAA. However, conduct by a person that may not be prosecuted directly under HIPAA’s criminal provisions could potentially be prosecuted under aiding and abetting or conspiracy laws. Consequently, depending on the facts and circumstances, we could face substantial criminal penalties if we receive individually identifiable health information from a health care provider or research institution that has not satisfied HIPAA’s disclosure standards. In addition, international data protection laws including the EU Data Protection Directive and member state implementing legislation may 40 Table of Contents apply to some or all of the clinical data obtained outside of the U.S. Furthermore, certain privacy laws and genetic testing laws may apply directly to our operations and/or those of our collaborators and may impose restrictions on our use and dissemination of individuals’ health information. Moreover, patients about whom we or our collaborators obtain information, as well as the providers who share this information with us, may have contractual rights that limit our ability to use and disclose the information. Claims that we have violated individuals’ privacy rights or breached our contractual obligations, even if we are not found liable, could be expensive and time-consuming to defend and could result in adverse publicity that could harm our business. Risks Related To Our Stock Our officers and directors have significant control over us and their interests may differ from those of our stockholders. As of June 30, 2010, our directors and officers beneficially owned or controlled approximately 10.8% of our issued and outstanding common stock. Individually and in the aggregate, these stockholders significantly influence our management, affairs and all matters requiring stockholder approval. These stockholders may vote their shares in a way with which other stockholders do not agree. In particular, this concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing an acquisition of us or entrenching management and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our quarterly operating results could fluctuate significantly, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. Entering into licensing or drug discovery collaborations typically involves significant technical evaluation and/or commitment of capital by our collaborators. Accordingly, negotiation can be lengthy and is subject to a number of significant risks, including collaborators’ budgetary constraints and internal acceptance reviews and a significant portion of our revenue from these collaborations is attributable to up-front payments and milestones that are non-recurring. Further, some of our collaborators can influence when we deliver products and perform services and therefore receive revenue, under their contracts with us. Due to these factors, our operating results could fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. In addition, we may experience significant fluctuations in quarterly operating results due to factors such as general and industry-specific economic conditions that may affect the research and development expenditures of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Due to the possibility of fluctuations in our revenue and expenses, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. Our operating results in some quarters may not meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors. If we do not meet analysts’ and/or investors’ expectations, our stock price could decline. Because our stock price may be volatile, our stock price could experience substantial declines. The market price of our common stock has historically experienced and may continue to experience volatility. The high and low closing bids for our common stock were $4.45 and $1.72, respectively, in fiscal 2010; $8.79 and $2.51, respectively, in fiscal 2009; and $12.91 and $4.66, respectively, in fiscal 2008. Our quarterly operating results, the success or failure of our internal drug discovery efforts, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets and other developments affecting our collaborators, our competitors or us could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. This volatility coupled with market declines in our industry over the past several years have affected the market prices of securities issued by many companies, often for reasons unrelated to their operating performance and may adversely affect the price of our common stock. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities. A securities class action suit against us could result in potential liabilities, substantial costs and the diversion of management’s attention and resources, regardless of whether we win or lose. 41 Table of Contents Because we do not intend to pay dividends, stockholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and are restricted in our ability to do so under our current credit agreement. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to finance the expansion of our business and do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend entirely upon any future appreciation. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which stockholders have purchased their shares. The ability of our stockholders to control our policies and effect a change of control of our company is limited, which may not be in the best interests of our stockholders. There are provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws that may discourage a third-party from making a proposal to acquire us, even if some of our stockholders might consider the proposal to be in their best interests. These include the following provisions in our certificate of incorporation: • Our certificate of incorporation provides for three classes of directors with the term of office of one class expiring each year, commonly referred to as a “staggered board.” By preventing stockholders from voting on the election of more than one class of directors at any annual meeting of stockholders, this provision may have the effect of keeping the current members of our Board of Directors in control for a longer period of time than stockholders may desire; and • Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval and to establish the preferences and rights of any preferred stock issued, which would allow the board to issue one or more classes or series of preferred stock that could discourage or delay a tender offer or change in control. In addition, our Board of Directors approved a Rights Agreement on August 2, 2001, which could prevent or deter a potential unsolicited takeover of us by causing substantial dilution of an acquirer of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. We are also subject to the business combination provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which, in general, imposes restrictions upon acquirers of 15% or more of our stock. As a result, it is difficult for a third-party to acquire control of us without the approval of the Board of Directors and, therefore, mergers and acquisitions of us that our stockholders may consider in their best interests may not occur. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 