Item 1A: Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below as well as other information provided to you in this annual report, including information in the section of this document entitled “Forward-Looking Statements.” The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected, the value of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to our Business and Industry We are a development stage company. We are an early development stage biotechnology company with a history of losses and can provide no assurance as to future operating results. As a result of losses that will continue throughout our development stage, we may exhaust our financial resources and be unable to complete the development of our products. We anticipate that our ongoing operational costs will increase significantly as we continue conducting our clinical development program. Our deficit will continue to grow during our drug development period. Since our inception, we have had no revenue, and do not expect to have any revenue for another three to five years, depending on when we can commercialize our immunotherapies, if at all. We have sustained losses from operations in each fiscal year since our inception, and we expect losses to continue for the indefinite future due to the substantial investment in research and development. As of October 31, 2013 we had an accumulated deficit of $70,465,823 and shareholders’ equity of $18,002,142. We expect to spend substantial additional sums on the continued administration and research and development of proprietary products and technologies with no certainty that our immunotherapies will become commercially viable or profitable as a result of these expenditures. If we fail to raise a significant amount of capital, we may need to significantly curtail operations or cease operations in the near future. If any of our product candidates fails in clinical trials or does not gain regulatory approval, we may never become profitable. Even if we achieve profitability in the future, we may not be able to sustain profitability in subsequent periods. Our limited operating history does not afford investors a sufficient history on which to base an investment decision. We commenced our Lm -LLO based immunotherapy development business in February 2002 and have existed as a development stage company since such time. Prior thereto we conducted no business. Accordingly, we have a limited operating history. We have no approved products or products pending approval and therefore have not derived any revenue from the sales of products and have not yet demonstrated ability to obtain regulatory approval, formulate and manufacture commercial scale products, or conduct sales and marketing activities necessary for successful product commercialization. Consequently, there is limited information for investors to use as basis for assessing our future viability. Investors must consider the risks and difficulties we have encountered in the rapidly evolving vaccine and immunotherapy industry. Such risks include the following: • difficulties, complications, delays and other unanticipated factors in connection with the development of new drugs; • competition from companies that have substantially greater assets and financial resources than we have; • need for acceptance of our immunotherapies; • ability to anticipate and adapt to a competitive market and rapid technological developments; • need to rely on multiple levels of complex financing agreements with outside funding due to the length of drug development cycles and governmental approved protocols associated with the pharmaceutical industry; and • dependence upon key personnel including key independent consultants and advisors. We cannot be certain that our strategy will be successful or that we will successfully address these risks. In the event that we do not successfully address these risks, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may be required to reduce our staff, discontinue certain research or development programs of our future products and cease to operate. We may face legal claims; Litigation is expensive and we may not be able to afford the costs. We may face legal claims involving stockholders, consumers, competitors, and other issues. As described in “Legal Proceedings” in Part I Item 3 of this Form 10-K, we are engaged in a number of legal proceedings. Litigation and other legal proceedings are inherently uncertain, and adverse rulings could occur, including monetary damages, or an injunction stopping us from engaging in business practices, or requiring other remedies, such as compulsory licensing of patents. The costs of litigation or any proceeding relating to our intellectual property or contractual rights could be substantial even if resolved in our favor. Some of our competitors or financial funding sources have far greater resources than we do and may be better able to afford the costs of complex litigation. Also, in a law suit for infringement or contractual breaches, even if frivolous, will require considerable time commitments on the part of management, its attorneys and consultants. Defending these types of proceedings or legal actions involve considerable expense and could negatively affect our financial results. We can provide no assurance of the successful and timely development of new products. Our immunotherapies are at various stages of research and development. Further development and extensive testing will be required to determine their technical feasibility and commercial viability. We will need to complete significant additional clinical trials demonstrating that our product candidates are safe and effective to the satisfaction of the FDA and other non-U.S. regulatory authorities. The drug approval process is time-consuming, involves substantial expenditures of resources, and depends upon a number of factors, including the severity of the illness in question, the availability of alternative treatments, and the risks and benefits demonstrated in the clinical trials. Our success will depend on our ability to achieve scientific and technological advances and to translate such advances into licensable, FDA-approvable, commercially competitive products on a timely basis. Failure can occur at any stage of the process. If such programs are not successful, we may invest substantial amounts of time and money without developing revenue-producing products. As we enter a more extensive clinical program for our product candidates, the data generated in these studies may not be as compelling as the earlier results. 22 Immunotherapies and vaccines that we may develop are not likely to be commercially available until five to ten or more years. The proposed development schedules for our immunotherapies may be affected by a variety of factors, including technological difficulties, clinical trial failures, regulatory hurdles, competitive products, intellectual property challenges and/or changes in governmental regulation, many of which will not be within our control. Any delay in the development, introduction or marketing of our products could result either in such products being marketed at a time when their cost and performance characteristics would not be competitive in the marketplace or in the shortening of their commercial lives. In light of the long-term nature of our projects, the unproven technology involved and the other factors described elsewhere in this section, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully complete the development or marketing of any new products. Our research and development expenses are subject to uncertainty. Factors affecting our research and development expenses include, but are not limited to: • competition from companies that have substantially greater assets and financial resources than we have; • need for acceptance of our immunotherapies; • ability to anticipate and adapt to a competitive market and rapid technological developments; • amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure; • need to rely on multiple levels of outside funding due to the length of drug development cycles and governmental approved protocols associated with the pharmaceutical industry; and • dependence upon key personnel including key independent consultants and advisors. There can be no guarantee that our research and development expenses will be consistent from period to period. We may be required to accelerate or delay incurring certain expenses depending on the results of our studies and the availability of adequate funding. We are subject to numerous risks inherent in conducting clinical trials. We outsource the management of our clinical trials to third parties. Agreements with clinical investigators and medical institutions for clinical testing and with other third parties for data management services, place substantial responsibilities on these parties that, if unmet, could result in delays in, or termination of, our clinical trials. For example, if any of our clinical trial sites fail to comply with FDA-approved good clinical practices, we may be unable to use the data gathered at those sites. If these clinical investigators, medical institutions or other third parties do not carry out their contractual duties or obligations or fail to meet expected deadlines, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to their failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or for other reasons, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated, and we may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for, or successfully commercialize, agents such as ADXS-HPV. We are not certain that we will successfully recruit enough patients to complete our clinical trials nor that we will reach our primary endpoints. Delays in recruitment, lack of clinical benefit or unacceptable side effects would delay or prevent the initiation of the Phase 3 trials of ADXS-HPV. We or our regulators may suspend or terminate our clinical trials for a number of reasons. We may voluntarily suspend or terminate our clinical trials if at any time we believe they present an unacceptable risk to the patients enrolled in our clinical trials or do not demonstrate clinical benefit. In addition, regulatory agencies may order the temporary or permanent discontinuation of our clinical trials at any time if they believe that the clinical trials are not being conducted in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements or that they present an unacceptable safety risk to the patients enrolled in our clinical trials. Our clinical trial operations are subject to regulatory inspections at any time. If regulatory inspectors conclude that we or our clinical trial sites are not in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements for conducting clinical trials, we may receive reports of observations or warning letters detailing deficiencies, and we will be required to implement corrective actions. If regulatory agencies deem our responses to be inadequate, or are dissatisfied with the corrective actions we or our clinical trial sites have implemented, our clinical trials may be temporarily or permanently discontinued, we may be fined, we or our investigators may be precluded from conducting any ongoing or any future clinical trials, the government may refuse to approve our marketing applications or allow us to manufacture or market our products, and we may be criminally prosecuted. The lengthy approval process as well as the unpredictability of future clinical trial results may result in our failing to obtain regulatory approval for ADXS-HPV or our other product candidates, which would materially harm our business, results of operations and prospects. The successful development of immunotherapies is highly uncertain. Successful development of biopharmaceuticals is highly uncertain and is dependent on numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. Immunotherapies that appear promising in the early phases of development may fail to reach the market for several reasons including: • preclinical study results that may show the immunotherapy to be less effective than desired (e.g., the study failed to meet its primary objectives) or to have harmful or problematic side effects; • clinical study results that may show the immunotherapy to be less effective than expected (e.g., the study failed to meet its primary endpoint) or to have unacceptable side effects; • failure to receive the necessary regulatory approvals or a delay in receiving such approvals. Among other things, such delays may be caused by slow enrollment in clinical studies, length of time to achieve study endpoints, additional time requirements for data analysis, or Biologics License Application preparation, discussions with the FDA, an FDA request for additional preclinical or clinical data, or unexpected safety or manufacturing issues; • manufacturing costs, formulation issues, pricing or reimbursement issues, or other factors that make the immunotherapy uneconomical; and • the proprietary rights of others and their competing products and technologies that may prevent the immunotherapy from being commercialized. Success in preclinical and early clinical studies does not ensure that large-scale clinical studies will be successful. Clinical results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals. The length of time necessary to complete clinical studies and to submit an application for marketing approval for a final decision by a regulatory authority varies significantly from one immunotherapy to the next, and may be difficult to predict. 23 Even if we are successful in getting market approval, commercial success of any of our product candidates will also depend in large part on the availability of coverage and adequate reimbursement from third-party payers, including government payers such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs and managed care organizations, which may be affected by existing and future health care reform measures designed to reduce the cost of health care. Third-party payers could require us to conduct additional studies, including post-marketing studies related to the cost effectiveness of a product, to qualify for reimbursement, which could be costly and divert our resources. If government and other health care payers were not to provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for one any of our products once approved, market acceptance and commercial success would be reduced. In addition, if one of our products is approved for marketing, we will be subject to significant regulatory obligations regarding the submission of safety and other post-marketing information and reports and registration, and will need to continue to comply (or ensure that our third party providers) comply with cGMPs, and GCPs, for any clinical trials that we conduct post-approval. In addition, there is always the risk that we or a regulatory authority might identify previously unknown problems with a product post-approval, such as adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency. Compliance with these requirements is costly, and any failure to comply or other issues with our product candidates post-market approval could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We must comply with significant government regulations. The research and development, manufacture and marketing of human therapeutic and diagnostic products are subject to regulation, primarily by the FDA in the United States and by comparable authorities in other countries. These national agencies and other federal, state, local and foreign entities regulate, among other things, research and development activities (including testing in animals and in humans) and the testing, manufacturing, handling, labeling, storage, record keeping, approval, advertising and promotion of the products that we are developing. If we obtain approval for any of our product candidates, our operations will be directly or indirectly through our customers, subject to various federal and state fraud and abuse laws, including, without limitation, the federal Anti-Kickback Statue and the federal False Claims Act, and privacy laws. Noncompliance with applicable laws and requirements can result in various adverse consequences, including delay in approving or refusal to approve product licenses or other applications, suspension or termination of clinical investigations, revocation of approvals previously granted, fines, criminal prosecution, civil and criminal penalties, recall or seizure of products, exclusion from having our products reimbursed by federal health care programs, the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, injunctions against shipping products and total or partial suspension of production and/or refusal to allow a company to enter into governmental supply contracts. The process of obtaining requisite FDA approval has historically been costly and time-consuming. Current FDA requirements for a new human biological product to be marketed in the United States include: (1) the successful conclusion of preclinical laboratory and animal tests, if appropriate, to gain preliminary information on the product’s safety; (2) filing with the FDA of an IND to conduct human clinical trials for drugs or biologics; (3) the successful completion of adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the investigational new drug for its recommended use; and (4) filing by a company and acceptance and approval by the FDA of a Biologic License Application, or BLA, for a biological investigational new drug, to allow commercial distribution of a biologic product. The FDA also requires that any drug or formulation to be tested in humans be manufactured in accordance with its Good Manufacturing Practices, or GMP, regulations. This has been extended to include any drug that will be tested for safety in animals in support of human testing. The GMPs set certain minimum requirements for procedures, record-keeping and the physical characteristics of the laboratories used in the production of these drugs. A delay in one or more of the procedural steps outlined above could be harmful to us in terms of getting our immunotherapies through clinical testing and to market. We can provide no assurance that our clinical product candidates will obtain regulatory approval or that the results of clinical studies will be favorable. We are currently evaluating the safety and efficacy of ADXS-HPV in a number of ongoing clinical trials. However, even though the initiation and conduct of these trials is in accordance with the governing regulatory authorities in each country, as with any investigational new drug (under an IND in the United States, or the equivalent in countries outside of the United States), we are at risk of a clinical hold at any time based on the evaluation of the data and information submitted to the governing regulatory authorities. There can be delays in obtaining FDA (U.S.) and/or other necessary regulatory approvals in the United States and in countries outside the United States for any investigational new drug and failure to receive such approvals would have an adverse effect on the investigational new drug’s potential commercial success and on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. The time required to obtain approval by the FDA and non-U.S. regulatory authorities is unpredictable but typically takes many years following the commencement of clinical trials and depends upon numerous factors, including the substantial discretion of the regulatory authorities. For example, the FDA or non-U.S. regulatory authorities may disagree with the design or implementation of our clinical trials or study endpoints; or we may be unable to demonstrate that a product candidate’s clinical and other benefits outweigh its safety risks. In addition, the FDA or non-U.S. regulatory authorities may disagree with our interpretation of data from preclinical studies or clinical trials or the data collected from clinical trials of our product candidates may not be sufficient to support the submission of an NDA or other submission or to obtain regulatory approval in the United States or elsewhere. The FDA or non-U.S. regulatory authorities may fail to approve the manufacturing processes or facilities of third-party manufacturers with which we contract for clinical and commercial supplies; and the approval policies or regulations of the FDA or non-U.S. regulatory authorities may significantly change in a manner rendering our clinical data insufficient for approval. In addition to the foregoing, approval policies, regulations, or the type and amount of clinical data necessary to gain approval may change during the course of a product candidate’s clinical development and may vary among jurisdictions. We have not submitted for nor obtained regulatory approval for any product candidate and it is possible that none of our existing product candidates or any product candidates we may seek to develop in the future will ever obtain regulatory approval. 24 We may not obtain or maintain the benefits associated with orphan drug designation, including market exclusivity. Although we have submitted a new request for orphan drug designation for ADXS-HPV for use in the treatment of invasive cervical cancer our original request was denied and there can be no assurance that our new request will be granted. Although, we have been granted orphan drug designation for ADXS-HPV for use in the treatment of HPV-associated anal cancer and for HPV-associated head and neck cancer in the United States, and intend to request a similar designation for these uses in the European Union, we may not be granted orphan drug designation, or even if granted, we may not receive the benefits associated with orphan drug designation. This may result from a failure to maintain orphan drug status, or result from a competing product reaching the market that has an orphan designation for the same disease indication. Under U.S. rules for orphan drugs, if such a competing product reaches the market before ours does, the competing product could potentially obtain a scope of market exclusivity that limits or precludes our product from being sold in the United States for seven years. Even if we obtain exclusivity, the FDA could subsequently approve the same drug for the same condition if the FDA concludes that the later drug is clinically superior in that it is shown to be safer, more effective or makes a major contribution to patient care. A competitor also may receive approval of different products for the same indication for which our orphan product has exclusivity, or obtain approval for the same product but for a different indication for which the orphan product has exclusivity. In addition, if and when we request orphan drug designation in Europe, the European exclusivity period is ten years but can be reduced to six years if the drug no longer meets the criteria for orphan drug designation or if the drug is sufficiently profitable so that market exclusivity is no longer justified. Orphan drug exclusivity may be lost if the FDA or EMEA determines that the request for designation was materially defective or if the manufacturer is unable to assure sufficient quantity of the drug to meet the needs of patients with the rare disease or condition. We may not obtain or maintain the benefits associated with breakthrough therapy designation. On October 7, 2013, we submitted a request for breakthrough therapy designation (BTD) to the IND for ADXS-HPV in the treatment of invasive cervical cancer in the United States. The FDA denied the request in December 2013, but stated that a new request may be submitted if we obtain new clinical evidence that supports BTD. If we resubmit, we may not be granted breakthrough therapy designation, or even if granted, we may not receive the benefits associated with breakthrough therapy designation. This may result from a failure to maintain breakthrough therapy status if ADXS11-001 is no longer considered to be a breakthrough therapy. For example, a drug’s development program may be granted breakthrough therapy designation using early clinical testing that shows a much higher response rate than available therapies. However, subsequent interim data derived from a larger study may show a response that is substantially smaller than the response seen in early clinical testing. Another example is where breakthrough therapy designation is granted to two drugs that are being developed for the same use. If one of the two drugs gains traditional approval, the other would not retain its designation unless its sponsor provided evidence that the drug may demonstrate substantial improvement over the recently approved drug. When breakthrough therapy designation is no longer supported by emerging data or the designated drug development program is no longer being pursued, the FDA may choose to send a letter notifying the sponsor that the program is no longer designated as a breakthrough therapy development program. We rely upon patents to protect our technology. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights and we may be liable for infringing the intellectual property rights of others. Our ability to compete effectively will depend on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies, including the Lm -LLO based immunotherapy platform technology, and the proprietary technology of others with whom we have entered into collaboration and licensing agreements. We have 42 patents that have been issued and 38 patent applications that are pending. We have licensed all of these patents and 25 of the pending patent applications from Penn. We have obtained the rights to all future patent applications in this field originating in the laboratories of Dr. Yvonne Paterson and Dr. Fred Frankel. We own or hold licenses to a number of issued patents and U.S. pending patent applications, as well as foreign patents and foreign counterparts. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patent protection both in the United States and in other countries for our product candidates, as well as the methods for treating patients in the product indications using these product candidates. Such patent protection is costly to obtain and maintain, and we cannot guarantee that sufficient funds will be available. Our ability to protect our product candidates from unauthorized or infringing use by third parties depends in substantial part on our ability to obtain and maintain valid and enforceable patents. Due to evolving legal standards relating to the patentability, validity and enforceability of patents covering pharmaceutical inventions and the scope of claims made under these patents, our ability to obtain, maintain and enforce patents is uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. Even if our product candidates, as well as methods for treating patients for prescribed indications using these product candidates are covered by valid and enforceable patents and have claims with sufficient scope, disclosure and support in the specification, the patents will provide protection only for a limited amount of time. Accordingly, rights under any issued patents may not provide us with sufficient protection for our product candidates or provide sufficient protection to afford us a commercial advantage against competitive products or processes. In addition, we cannot guarantee that any patents will issue from any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us. Even if patents have issued or will issue, we cannot guarantee that the claims of these patents are or will be valid or enforceable or will provide us with any significant protection against competitive products or otherwise be commercially valuable to us. The laws of some foreign jurisdictions do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as in the United States and many companies have encountered significant difficulties in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. Furthermore, different countries have different procedures for obtaining patents, and patents issued in different countries offer different degrees of protection against use of the patented invention by others. If we encounter such difficulties in protecting or are otherwise precluded from effectively protecting our intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions, our business prospects could be substantially harmed. 25 The patent positions of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, including our patent position, involve complex legal and factual questions, and, therefore, validity and enforceability cannot be predicted with certainty. Patents may be challenged, deemed unenforceable, invalidated, or circumvented. Our patents can be challenged by our competitors who can argue that our patents are invalid, unenforceable, lack sufficient written description or enablement, or that the claims of the issued patents should be limited or narrowly construed. Patents also will not protect our product candidates if competitors devise ways of making or using these product candidates without infringing our patents. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our technologies, methods of treatment, product candidates, and any future products are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets and we have the funds to enforce our rights, if necessary. The expiration of our owned or licensed patents before completing the research and development of our product candidates and receiving all required approvals in order to sell and distribute the products on a commercial scale can adversely affect our business and results of operations. Litigation regarding patents, patent applications and other proprietary rights may be expensive and time consuming. If we are involved in such litigation, it could cause delays in bringing product candidates to market and harm our ability to operate. Our success will depend in part on our ability to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. The pharmaceutical industry is characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. Other parties may obtain patents in the future and allege that the products or use of our technologies infringe these patent claims or that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. In addition, third parties may challenge or infringe upon our existing or future patents. Proceedings involving our patents or patent applications or those of others could result in adverse decisions regarding: • the patentability of our inventions relating to our product candidates; and/or • the enforceability, validity or scope of protection offered by our patents relating to our product candidates. Even if we are successful in these proceedings, we may incur substantial costs and divert management time and attention in pursuing these proceedings, which could have a material adverse effect on us. If we are unable to avoid infringing the patent rights of others, we may be required to seek a license, defend an infringement action or challenge the validity of the patents in court. Patent litigation is costly and time consuming. We may not have sufficient resources to bring these actions to a successful conclusion. In addition, if we do not obtain a license, develop or obtain non-infringing technology, fail to defend an infringement action successfully or have infringed patents declared invalid, we may: • incur substantial monetary damages; • encounter significant delays in bringing our product candidates to market; and/or • be precluded from participating in the manufacture, use or sale of our product candidates or methods of treatment requiring licenses. We may be unable to adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. We also rely on trade secrets to protect our proprietary technologies, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers, and other advisors to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. We are dependent upon our license agreement with Penn; if we breach the license agreement and/or fail to make payments due and owing to Penn under our license agreement, our business will be materially and adversely affected. Pursuant to the terms of our Second and Third Amendment Agreements with Penn, as amended, we have acquired exclusive worldwide licenses for patents and patent applications related to our proprietary Listeria vaccine technology. The license provides us with the exclusive commercial rights to the patent portfolio developed at Penn as of the effective date of the license, in connection with Dr. Paterson and requires us to pay various milestone, legal, filing and licensing payments to commercialize the technology. As of October 31, 2013, we owed Penn approximately $325,000 in patent expenses (including licensing fees). We can provide no assurance that we will be able to make all payments due and owing thereunder, that such licenses will not be terminated or expire during critical periods, that we will be able to obtain licenses from Penn for other rights that may be important to us, or, if obtained, that such licenses will be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. The loss of any current or future licenses from Penn or the exclusivity rights provided therein could materially harm our financial condition and operating results. If we are unable to obtain licenses needed for the development of our product candidates, or if we breach any of the agreements under which we license rights to patents or other intellectual property from third parties, we could lose license rights that are important to our business. If we are unable to maintain and/or obtain licenses needed for the development of our product candidates in the future, we may have to develop alternatives to avoid infringing on the patents of others, potentially causing increased costs and delays in drug development and introduction or precluding the development, manufacture, or sale of planned products. Some of our licenses provide for limited periods of exclusivity that require minimum license fees and payments and/or may be extended only with the consent of the licensor. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to meet these minimum license fees in the future or that these third parties will grant extensions on any or all such licenses. This same restriction may be contained in licenses obtained in the future. 26 Additionally, we can provide no assurance that the patents underlying any licenses will be valid and enforceable. To the extent any products developed by us are based on licensed technology, royalty payments on the licenses will reduce our gross profit from such product sales and may render the sales of such products uneconomical. In addition, the loss of any current or future licenses or the exclusivity rights provided therein could materially harm our business financial condition and our operations. We have no manufacturing, sales, marketing or distribution capability and we must rely upon third parties for such. We do not intend to create facilities to manufacture our products and therefore are dependent upon third parties to do so. We currently have agreements with Recipharm Cobra Biologics Limited and Vibalogics GmbH for production of our immunotherapies for research and development and testing purposes. We depend on our manufacturers to meet our deadlines, quality standards and specifications. Our reliance on third parties for the manufacture of our drug substance, investigational new drugs and, in the future, any approved products, creates a dependency that could severely disrupt our research and development, our clinical testing, and ultimately our sales and marketing efforts if the source of such supply proves to be unreliable or unavailable. If the contracted manufacturing source is unreliable or unavailable, we may not be able to manufacture clinical drug supplies of our immunotherapies, and our preclinical and clinical testing programs may not be able to move forward and our entire business plan could fail. If we are able to commercialize our products in the future, there is no assurance that our manufacturers will be able to meet commercialized scale production requirements in a timely manner or in accordance with applicable standards or current GMP. If we are unable to establish or manage strategic collaborations in the future, our revenue and drug development may be limited. Our strategy includes eventual substantial reliance upon strategic collaborations for marketing and commercialization of ADXS-HPV, and we may rely even more on strategic collaborations for research, development, marketing and commercialization of our other immunotherapies. To date, we have not entered into any strategic collaborations with third parties capable of providing these services although we have been heavily reliant upon third party outsourcing for our clinical trials execution and production of drug supplies for use in clinical trials. In addition, we have not yet licensed, marketed or sold any of our immunotherapies or entered into successful collaborations for these services in order to ultimately commercialize our immunotherapies. Establishing strategic collaborations is difficult and time-consuming. Our discussions with potential collaborators may not lead to the establishment of collaborations on favorable terms, if at all. For example, potential collaborators may reject collaborations based upon their assessment of our financial, clinical, regulatory or intellectual property position. If we successfully establish new collaborations, these relationships may never result in the successful development or commercialization of our immunotherapies or the generation of sales revenue. To the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other collaborative arrangements, our product revenues are likely to be lower than if we directly marketed and sold any products that we may develop. Management of our relationships with our collaborators will require: • significant time and effort from our management team; • coordination of our research and development programs with the research and development priorities of our collaborators; and • effective allocation of our resources to multiple projects. If we continue to enter into research and development collaborations at the early phases of drug development, our success will in part depend on the performance of our corporate collaborators. We will not directly control the amount or timing of resources devoted by our corporate collaborators to activities related to our immunotherapies. Our corporate collaborators may not commit sufficient resources to our research and development programs or the commercialization, marketing or distribution of our immunotherapies. If any corporate collaborator fails to commit sufficient resources, our preclinical or clinical development programs related to this collaboration could be delayed or terminated. Also, our collaborators may pursue existing or other development-stage products or alternative technologies in preference to those being developed in collaboration with us. Finally, if we fail to make required milestone or royalty payments to our collaborators or to observe other obligations in our agreements with them, our collaborators may have the right to terminate those agreements. We may incur substantial liabilities from any product liability claims if our insurance coverage for those claims is inadequate. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to the testing of our immunotherapies in human clinical trials, and will face an even greater risk if the approved products are sold commercially. An individual may bring a liability claim against us if one of the immunotherapies causes, or merely appears to have caused, an injury. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against the product liability claim, we will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for our immunotherapies; • damage to our reputation; • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • costs of related litigation; • substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants; • loss of revenues; • the inability to commercialize immunotherapies; and • increased difficulty in raising required additional funds in the private and public capital markets. We have insurance coverage on our clinical trials for each clinical trial site. We do not have product liability insurance because we do not have products on the market. We currently are in the process of obtaining insurance coverage and to expand such coverage to include the sale of commercial products if marketing approval is obtained for any of our immunotherapies. However, insurance coverage is increasingly expensive and we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost and we may not be able to obtain insurance coverage that will be adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise. 27 We may incur significant costs complying with environmental laws and regulations. We and our contracted third parties use hazardous materials, including chemicals and biological agents and compounds that could be dangerous to human health and safety or the environment. As appropriate, we store these materials and wastes resulting from their use at our or our outsourced laboratory facility pending their ultimate use or disposal. We contract with a third party to properly dispose of these materials and wastes. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, generation, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and wastes. Compliance with such laws and regulations may be costly. If we use biological materials in a manner that causes injury, we may be liable for damages. Our research and development activities involve the use of biological and hazardous materials. Although we believe our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials complies with federal, state and local laws and regulations, we cannot entirely eliminate the risk of accidental injury or contamination from the use, storage, handling or disposal of these materials. We do not carry specific biological waste insurance coverage, workers compensation or property and casualty and general liability insurance policies that include coverage for damages and fines arising from biological exposure or contamination. Accordingly, in the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for damages or penalized with fines in an amount exceeding our resources, and our clinical trials or regulatory approvals could be suspended or terminated. We need to attract and retain highly skilled personnel; we may be unable to effectively manage growth with our limited resources. As of January 17, 2014, we had 17 employees, all of which were full time employees. Our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel is critical to our operations and expansion. We face competition for these types of personnel from other technology companies and more established organizations, many of which have significantly larger operations and greater financial, technical, human and other resources than we have. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel on a timely basis, on competitive terms, or at all. If we are not successful in attracting and retaining these personnel, or integrating them into our operations our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. In such circumstances we may be unable to conduct certain research and development programs, unable to adequately manage our clinical trials and other products, and unable to adequately address our management needs. We depend upon our senior management and key consultants and their loss or unavailability could put us at a competitive disadvantage. We depend upon the efforts and abilities of our senior executives, as well as the services of several key consultants, including Yvonne Paterson, Ph.D. The loss or unavailability of the services of any of these individuals for any significant period of time could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We have not obtained, do not own, nor are we the beneficiary of, key-person life insurance. The biotechnology and immunotherapy industries are characterized by rapid technological developments and a high degree of competition. We may be unable to compete with more substantial enterprises. The biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industries are characterized by rapid technological developments and a high degree of competition. As a result, our actual or proposed immunotherapies could become obsolete before we recoup any portion of our related research and development and commercialization expenses. Competition in the biopharmaceutical industry is based significantly on scientific and technological factors. These factors include the availability of patent and other protection for technology and products, the ability to commercialize technological developments and the ability to obtain governmental approval for testing, manufacturing and marketing. We compete with specialized biopharmaceutical firms in the United States, Europe and elsewhere, as well as a growing number of large pharmaceutical companies that are applying biotechnology to their operations. Many biopharmaceutical companies have focused their development efforts in the human therapeutics area, including cancer. Many major pharmaceutical companies have developed or acquired internal biotechnology capabilities or made commercial arrangements with other biopharmaceutical companies. These companies, as well as academic institutions and governmental agencies and private research organizations, also compete with us in recruiting and retaining highly qualified scientific personnel and consultants. Our ability to compete successfully with other companies in the pharmaceutical field will also depend to a considerable degree on the continuing availability of capital to us. We are aware of certain investigational new drugs under development or approved products by competitors that are used for the prevention, diagnosis, or treatment of certain diseases we have targeted for drug development. Various companies are developing biopharmaceutical products that have the potential to directly compete with our immunotherapies even though their approach to may be different. The biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industries are highly competitive, and this competition comes from both biotechnology firms and from major pharmaceutical companies, including companies like: Aduro Biotech, Agenus Inc., Bionovo Inc., Bristol-Myers Squibb, Celgene Corporation, Celldex Therapeutics, Cerus Corporation, Dendreon Corporation, Inovio Pharmaceutical Inc., Oncolytics Biotech Inc., Oncothyreon Inc., each of which is pursuing cancer vaccines and/or immunotherapies. Many of these companies have substantially greater financial, marketing, and human resources than we do (including, in some cases, substantially greater experience in clinical testing, manufacturing, and marketing of pharmaceutical products). We also experience competition in the development of our immunotherapies from universities and other research institutions and compete with others in acquiring technology from such universities and institutions. In addition, certain of our immunotherapies may be subject to competition from investigational new drugs and/or products developed using other technologies, some of which have completed numerous clinical trials. 28 We believe that our immunotherapies under development and in clinical trials will address unmet medical needs in the treatment of cancer. Our competition will be determined in part by the potential indications for which drugs are developed and ultimately approved by regulatory authorities. Additionally, the timing of market introduction of some of our potential products or of competitors’ products may be an important competitive factor. Accordingly, the relative speed with which we can develop immunotherapies, complete preclinical testing, clinical trials and approval processes and supply commercial quantities to market is expected to be important competitive factors. We expect that competition among products approved for sale will be based on various factors, including product efficacy, safety, reliability, availability, price and patent position. Risks Related to our Securities The price of our common stock and warrants may be volatile. The trading price of our common stock and warrants may fluctuate substantially. The price of our common stock and warrants that will prevail in the market may be higher or lower than the price you have paid, depending on many factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be related to our operating performance. These fluctuations could cause you to lose part or all of your investment in our common stock and warrants. Those factors that could cause fluctuations include, but are not limited to, the following: • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; • fluctuations in stock market prices and trading volumes of similar companies; • actual or anticipated changes in our net loss or fluctuations in our operating results or in the expectations of securities analysts; • the issuance of new equity securities pursuant to a future offering, including issuances of preferred stock; • general economic conditions and trends; • positive and negative events relating to healthcare and the overall pharmaceutical and biotech sector; • major catastrophic events; • sales of large blocks of our stock; • significant dilution caused by the anti-dilutive clauses in our financial agreements; • departures of key personnel; • changes in the regulatory status of our immunotherapies, including results of our clinical trials; • events affecting Penn or any future collaborators; • announcements of new products or technologies, commercial relationships or other events by us or our competitors; • regulatory developments in the United States and other countries; • failure of our common stock or warrants to be listed or quoted on The NASDAQ Stock Market, NYSE Amex Equities or other national market system; • changes in accounting principles; and • discussion of us or our stock price by the financial and scientific press and in online investor communities. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. Due to the potential volatility of our stock price, we may therefore be the target of securities litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources from our business. A DTC “Chill” on the electronic clearing of trades in our securities in the future may affect the liquidity of our stock and our ability to raise capital. Because our common stock may, from time to time, be considered a “penny stock,” there is a risk that the Depository Trust Company (DTC) may place a “chill” on the electronic clearing of trades in our securities. This may lead some brokerage firms to be unwilling to accept certificates and/or electronic deposits of our stock and other securities and also some may not accept trades in our securities altogether. In the past, DTC has placed a deposit chill on our shares, and although the chill is currently removed, no assurance can be given that a chill will not be reinstated in the future. A future DTC chill would affect the liquidity of our securities and make it difficult to purchase or sell our securities in the open market. It may also have an adverse effect on our ability to raise capital because investors may be unable to easily resell our securities into the market. Our inability to raise capital on terms acceptable to us, if at all, could have a material and adverse effect on our business and operations. You may have difficulty selling our shares because they may be deemed “penny stocks.” If our common stock price falls, our common stock may be deemed to be “penny stock” as that term is defined in Rule 3a51-1, promulgated under the Exchange Act. Penny stocks are, generally, stocks: • with a price of less than $5.00 per share; • that are neither traded on a “recognized” national exchange nor listed on an automated quotation system sponsored by a registered national securities association meeting certain minimum initial listing standards; and • of issuers with net tangible assets less than $2.0 million (if the issuer has been in continuous operation for at least three years) or $5.0 million (if in continuous operation for less than three years), or with average revenue of less than $6.0 million for the last three years. 29 Section 15(g) of the Exchange Act and Rule 15g-2 promulgated thereunder require broker-dealers dealing in penny stocks to provide potential investors with a document disclosing the risks of penny stocks and to obtain a manually signed and dated written receipt of the document before effecting any transaction in a “penny stock” for the investor’s account. We urge potential investors to obtain and read this disclosure carefully before purchasing any shares that are deemed to be “penny stock.” Rule 15g-9 promulgated under the Exchange Act requires broker-dealers in penny stocks to approve the account of any investor for transactions in such stocks before selling any “penny stock” to that investor. This procedure requires the broker-dealer to: • obtain from the investor information about his or her financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives; • reasonably determine, based on that information, that transactions in penny stocks are suitable for the investor and that the investor has enough knowledge and experience to be able to evaluate the risks of “penny stock” transactions; • provide the investor with a written statement setting forth the basis on which the broker-dealer made his or her determination; and • receive a signed and dated copy of the statement from the investor, confirming that it accurately reflects the investor’s financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives. Compliance with these requirements may make it harder for investors in our common stock to resell their shares to third parties. Accordingly, our common stock should only be purchased by investors, who understand that such investment is a long-term and illiquid investment, and are capable of and prepared to bear the risk of holding our common stock for an indefinite period of time. Although one reason we asked our shareholders to approve a reverse stock split was to increase the price per share of our common stock such that it would not be subject to the “penny stock” rules. Our stock closed at $5.33 per share on January 17, 2014, and no assurance can be given that the per share price of our common stock will maintain such levels such that our stock will not be subject to these rules in the future. A limited public trading market may cause volatility in the price of our common stock and warrants. The quotation of our common stock on the NASDAQ does not assure that a meaningful, consistent and liquid trading market currently exists, and in recent years such market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices of many smaller companies like us. Our common stock is thus subject to this volatility. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that such sales might occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock and our stock price may decline substantially in a short time and our shareholders could suffer losses or be unable to liquidate their holdings. Also there are large blocks of restricted stock that have met the holding requirements under Rule 144 that may be sold without restriction. Our stock is thinly traded due to the limited number of shares available for trading on the market thus causing large swings in price. In addition, there is no established trading market for our warrants. The market prices for our common stock may be adversely impacted by future events. Our common stock began trading on the over-the-counter-markets on July 28, 2005 and is currently quoted on the NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol ADXS. Market prices for our common stock and warrants will be influenced by a number of factors, including: • the issuance of new equity securities pursuant to a future offering, including issuances of preferred stock; • changes in interest rates; • significant dilution caused by the anti-dilutive clauses in our financial agreements; • competitive developments, including announcements by competitors of new products or services or significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • variations in quarterly operating results; • change in financial estimates by securities analysts; • the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock and warrants; • investor perceptions of our company and the pharmaceutical and biotech industries generally; and • general economic and other national conditions. Speculative nature of warrants. The five-year warrants we issued in October 2013 do not confer any rights of common stock ownership on their holders, such as voting rights or the right to receive dividends, but rather merely represent the right to acquire shares of common stock at a fixed price for a limited period of time. Holders of the warrants may exercise their right to acquire the common stock and pay an exercise price, prior to their specified expiry date, after which date any unexercised warrants will expire and have no further value. Moreover, the market value of the warrants is uncertain and there can be no assurance that the market value of the warrants will equal or exceed their exercise price. There can be no assurance that the market price of the common stock will ever equal or exceed the exercise price of the warrants, and consequently, whether it will ever be profitable for holders of the warrants to exercise the warrants. If we fail to remain current with our listing requirements, we could be removed from the NASDAQ Capital Market, which would limit the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and the ability of shareholders to sell their securities in the secondary market. Companies trading on the NASDAQ Marketplace, such as our company, must be reporting issuers under Section 12 of the Exchange Act, as amended, and must meet the listing requirements in order to maintain the listing of our common stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market. If we do not meet these requirements, the market liquidity for our securities could be severely adversely affected by limiting the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and the ability of shareholders to sell their securities in the secondary market. 30 Our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures have been ineffective in the past, and may be ineffective again in the future, and failure to improve them at such time could lead to errors in our financial statements that could require a restatement or untimely filings, which could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, and a decline in our stock price. Our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures have been ineffective in the past. We have taken steps to improve our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting, and as of October 31, 2013, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting were effective. However, there is no assurance that our disclosure controls and procedures will remain effective or that there will be no material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. Additionally, as a result of the historical material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and the historical ineffectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our stock. Sales of additional equity securities may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and your rights may be reduced. We expect to continue to incur drug development and selling, general and administrative costs, and to satisfy our funding requirements, we will need to sell additional equity securities, which may be subject to registration rights and warrants with anti-dilutive protective provisions. The sale or the proposed sale of substantial amounts of our common stock or other equity securities in the public markets may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our stock price may decline substantially. Our shareholders may experience substantial dilution and a reduction in the price that they are able to obtain upon sale of their shares. Also, new equity securities issued may have greater rights, preferences or privileges than our existing common stock. 31 Additional authorized shares of common stock available for issuance may adversely affect the market price of our securities. We are currently authorized to issue 25,000,000 shares of our common stock. As of January 17, 2014, we had 13,872,182 shares of our common stock issued and outstanding, excluding shares issuable upon exercise of our outstanding warrants, options, convertible promissory notes and shares of common stock earned but not yet issued under our director compensation program. Under our 2011 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, or ESPP, our employees can buy our common stock at a discounted price. To the extent the shares of common stock are issued, options and warrants are exercised or convertible promissory notes are converted, holders of our common stock will experience dilution. In addition, in the event of any future financing of equity securities or securities convertible into or exchangeable for, common stock, holders of our common stock may experience dilution. As of January 17, 2014, warrants to purchase 202,503 shares of our common stock are exercisable at approximately $9.24 per share and are subject to “weighted-average” anti-dilution protection upon certain equity issuances below $9.24 per share (as may be further adjusted as defined in the warrant). In addition, as of January 17, 2014, we had outstanding options to purchase 467,923 shares of our common stock at a weighted average exercise price of approximately $15.86 per share and outstanding warrants to purchase 4,265,262 shares of our common stock (including the above warrants subject to weighted-average anti-dilution protection); and approximately 30,320 shares of our common stock are available for grant under the ESPP. Although we entered into agreements providing for the repayment or conversion of certain of our outstanding indebtedness, not all the holders of our outstanding convertible promissory notes have agreed to exchange their securities at this time. The accounting treatment for certain of our warrants is complex and subject to judgments concerning the valuation of embedded derivative rights within the applicable securities. Fluctuations in the valuation of these rights could cause us to take charges to our earnings and make our financial results unpredictable. Certain of our outstanding warrants contain, or may be deemed to contain from time to time, embedded derivative rights in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. These derivative rights, or similar rights in securities we may issue in the future, need to be, or may need to be, separately valued as of the end of each accounting period in accordance with GAAP. We record these embedded derivatives as liabilities at issuance, valued using the Black-Scholes Model and are subject to revaluation at each reporting date. Any change in fair value between reporting periods is reported on our statement of operations. At October 31, 2013, and October 31, 2012, the fair value of the embedded derivative liability was $0 as the related securities were paid off, converted or reached maturity. For the twelve months ended October 31, 2013 and October 31, 2012, we reported income of $0 and approximately $400,000, respectively, due to changes in the fair value of the embedded derivative liability partially resulting from debt to equity exchanges during the period. Changes in the valuations of these rights, the valuation methodology or the assumptions on which the valuations are based could cause us to take charges to our earnings, which would adversely impact our results of operations. Moreover, the methodologies, assumptions and related interpretations of accounting or regulatory authorities associated with these embedded derivatives are complex and in some cases uncertain, which could cause our accounting for these derivatives, and as a result, our financial results, to fluctuate. There is a risk that questions could arise from investors or regulatory authorities concerning the appropriate accounting treatment of these instruments, which could require us to restate previous financial statements, which in turn could adversely affect our reputation, as well as our results of operations. We do not intend to pay cash dividends. We have not declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock, and we do not anticipate declaring or paying cash dividends for the foreseeable future. Any future determination as to the payment of cash dividends on our common stock will be at our board of directors’ discretion and will depend on our financial condition, operating results, capital requirements and other factors that our board of directors considers to be relevant. In addition, the terms of our Series B Preferred Stock prohibit the payment of dividends on our common stock for so long as any shares of our Series B Preferred Stock are outstanding. If we sell shares of our common stock under our committed equity line financing facility, our existing stockholders will experience immediate dilution and, as a result, our stock price may go down. On October 19, 2012, we entered into a committed equity line financing facility, or financing arrangement, under which we may sell up to $10.0 million of our common stock to Hanover over a 24-month period subject to a maximum of 920,000 shares of our common stock. In connection with such financing arrangement, we issued 28,000 shares of common stock to Hanover upon receipt of their commitment to purchase our common stock in the financing arrangement and we agreed to pay up to 14,400 additional shares of our common stock to Hanover to maintain such financing arrangement for the 24-month term, which together with the other 877,600 shares of our common stock, represents approximately 6.3% of our outstanding shares of our common stock as of January 17, 2014. Hanover may resell some or all of the shares we issued to them pursuant to the financing arrangement and such sales could cause the market price of our common stock to decline significantly with advances under the financing arrangement. On September 27, we notified Hanover that we irrevocably commit to suspend any draw downs under the Purchase Agreement without the prior written consent of Aegis Capital Corp. for a six month period beginning from the closing of our October, 2013 offering. Our intent is to terminate the equity line financing commitment in January, 2014 and issue 7,080 shares of our common stock pursuant to the terms of the agreement. 32 If we are not able to satisfy the conditions to each draw down under the committed equity line financing facility, we will not be able to sell our common stock pursuant to the committed equity line financing facility. Our ability to sell securities pursuant to the committed equity line financing facility is subject to conditions to each draw down notice that we present to Hanover requiring Hanover to purchase a specified number of shares of our common stock, which we refer to as a draw down, that must be satisfied prior to the closing of any sale of our common stock pursuant to such draw down. These include, among others: • accuracy in all material respects of our representations and warranties (except for such representations and warranties qualified by materiality, which shall be accurate in all respects) and our compliance with covenants in all material respects (including, without limitation, our prior delivery to Hanover of any commitment fee shares or maintenance fee shares to be issued to Hanover pursuant to the Purchase Agreement); • a resale registration statement with respect to shares of our common stock to be purchased by Hanover in such draw down amount must have been declared effective by the SEC and must be available for resale of such shares of our common stock by Hanover; • no material adverse effect on us shall have occurred or be continuing; • all the material filings by us required under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, shall have been filed with the SEC; and • the number of shares of our common stock in such draw down shall not exceed: º 300% of the average trading volume of our common stock during the 10 trading day period prior to such draw down date; º together with the shares of our common stock in all prior draw downs, $10 million of the shares of our common stock; or º such number of shares of our common stock that would result in Hanover beneficially owning more than 9.99% of our common stock after giving effect to such draw down. We may not be able to satisfy these conditions and/or the other conditions to a draw down under the committed equity line financing facility. If we are unable to satisfy such conditions, we will not be able to sell any of our common stock pursuant to the committed equity line financing facility. Our certificate of incorporation, Bylaws and Delaware law have anti-takeover provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control, which may cause our stock price to decline. Our certificate of incorporation, Bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions which could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if closing such a transaction would be beneficial to our shareholders. We are authorized to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. This preferred stock may be issued in one or more series, the terms of which may be determined at the time of issuance by our Board of Directors without further action by shareholders. The terms of any series of preferred stock may include voting rights (including the right to vote as a series on particular matters), preferences as to dividend, liquidation, conversion and redemption rights and sinking fund provisions. The issuance of any preferred stock could materially adversely affect the rights of the holders of our common stock, and therefore, reduce the value of our common stock. In particular, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with, or sell our assets to, a third party and thereby preserve control by the present management. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, Bylaws and Delaware law also could have the effect of discouraging potential acquisition proposals or making a tender offer or delaying or preventing a change in control, including changes a shareholder might consider favorable. Such provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our management. In particular, the certificate of incorporation, Bylaws and Delaware law, as applicable, among other things; provide the Board of Directors with the ability to alter the Bylaws without shareholder approval, and provide that vacancies on the Board of Directors may be filled by a majority of directors in office, although less than a quorum. We are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits “business combinations” between a publicly-held Delaware corporation and an “interested shareholder,” which is generally defined as a shareholder who becomes a beneficial owner of 15% or more of a Delaware corporation’s voting stock for a three-year period following the date that such shareholder became an interested shareholder. These provisions are expected to discourage certain types of coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids and to encourage persons seeking to acquire control of our company to first negotiate with its board. These provisions may delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us, which may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. 