ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to other information in this Report, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating Onvia and its business because such factors may have a significant impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition and could cause our stock price to decline. As a result of the risk factors set forth below and elsewhere in this Report, and the risks discussed in our other Securities and Exchange Commission filings, actual results could differ materially from historical results or those projected in any forward-looking statements. Risks related to our growth strategy We may not be able to meet our projected renewal rates. Our ability to continually enhance our products and services to provide relevant information to our clients, appropriately classify and distribute information, provide excellent client service, maintain competitive pricing and meet our clients’ expectations for source coverage and new content will significantly impact our clients’ satisfaction with our products and services and will impact their decision to renew. If we are unable to meet our clients’ expectations, our renewal rates and our projected growth and profitability will suffer. 8 We may be required to increase our sales and marketing expenses in order to achieve our revenue goals. During 2007, we directed significant resources toward the development of a new website, which we believe will generate a significant portion of our sales leads in the future. If this new website or other existing or planned marketing initiatives do not drive sufficient sales leads to our sales organization, we may be required to increase spending on new and untested marketing initiatives to deliver adequate leads to our sales team in order to achieve our revenue goals and our operating results may suffer. Achieving our sales goals also depends in part on increasing the number of new clients generated by our acquisition sales team. We plan to increase new client acquisition by increasing headcount on our acquisition sales team in 2008 and by improving the productivity of each of our sales representatives. We have hired new sales leadership and plan to invest in new sales tools to increase productivity; however, if we do not achieve the desired productivity increases, we may be required to increase headcount to a greater extent than planned, which would increase our operating expenses and may adversely impact our operating results. We may not be able to increase subscribership to our high value products. We expect that a significant portion of our future growth will come from increasing our annual contract value per client, and we expect this to be driven by increased adoption of our high value products. Subscribers to our high value products have higher annual contract value, higher renewal rates and provide greater lifetime value to the Company. Failure to increase subscribership to these products would adversely impact our client metrics and future growth. We may not achieve our projections for adoption of our products by targeted enterprise clients. We anticipate that a significant portion of our future revenue will be generated from sales to larger businesses. Our enterprise sales team targets larger companies that will purchase multiple licenses for our database products, for redistribution of our data to their employees or clients, or for remarketing their own products. If we fail to achieve our targeted adoption rates by enterprise clients, our operating results would be harmed. We may not achieve our projections for adoption of our new products by new and existing clients. We made significant investments in 2007 to expand our database and develop the Onvia Planning and Construction product and we plan to launch additional content and tools in 2008 and beyond. We expect to see an increase in retention rates for our existing clients and an increase in new customer acquisition because of the added features in these new products and tools. Adoption of these products by new and existing clients may not be consistent with our estimates and would impact our client metrics and future growth. Weakness in the commercial-residential housing market could drive reduced spending by our clients and prospective clients on business intelligence services. The majority of our clients are small to medium sized businesses operating within the infrastructure verticals, which include industries that would be negatively impacted by a slowdown in the commercial and residential development market, such as Building & Construction and Architecture & Engineering. Broad economic downturns typically have a greater impact on small and medium sized businesses than on larger entities, and the majority of our clients are small to medium sized businesses. The economic downturn in these industries could cause our clients and prospective clients to reduce their spending on market intelligence, which would slow our revenue growth. Weakness in the commercial-residential housing market or in the U.S. economy in general, could reduce tax revenues collected by government agencies and may result in reduced government spending in the future. Government agencies generate revenue from property, income and other taxes. Weakness in the housing market may cause property values to decline, which would result in lower property taxes. In addition, weakness in the overall U.S. economy may result in decreases in personal and business income taxes generated by government agencies. A reduction in government tax revenues may result in decreased spending by government agencies. If government agencies significantly reduce spending on new projects, new content for our products and services may decline, and our clients and prospective clients may decrease spending on marketing to government agencies. In either case, new client acquisition and retention rates may decline. We may fail to attract, hire and retain sales associates who can effectively communicate the benefits of our products to our clients and prospects, and they may be unable to achieve expected sales targets. In order to achieve our projected revenue growth rates, our sales teams must be able to effectively communicate the benefits of our products to existing and potential clients. We expect to see increases in client retention rates and in new client acquisition revenue and our sales goals are aggressive. If we are unable to retain our current sales associates and attract and hire new sales associates with the appropriate skills, we may not be able to achieve our projected sales targets and revenue growth rates. If we cannot effectively satisfy our clients across all our targeted industry verticals, we may decide to target fewer industries, and as a result, may lose clients. If we find that our retention and acquisition rates in any of our focused verticals are not meeting our expectations due to lack of bid-flow or for other reasons, we may choose to target fewer industry verticals to improve client satisfaction and 9 retention in core verticals, and we may lose clients in our other non-core verticals. Focusing on these core verticals may not generate the expected level of increased retention and acquisition. Our competitors may develop similar technologies that are more broadly accepted in the marketplace. The functionality in Onvia Business Builder and Onvia Planning and Construction is robust, and we expect that if adoption of these tools is in line with our expectations that our competitors may introduce products with similar functionality. If our competitors introduce products with similar functionality or are able to more effectively market and price their products for broad customer acceptance, new client acquisition and existing client retention would be adversely impacted. If we are unable to enhance our functionality or increase our marketing efforts to offset challenges from our competitors, we may lose market share. Risks related to our new product strategy We may fail to introduce new content and products that are broadly accepted by our clients, and there may be delays in the introduction of these tools and products. We expect to introduce new content in 2008 that will complement our current suite of products. If client acceptance and adoption of these new products is below our expectations, our projected growth rates and client acquisition and retention goals may not be achieved, and our financial results would be harmed. We expect to utilize internally developed technology and technology licensed from third parties for the development of new tools and content. If we are unable to develop or acquire the required technology on time, or at all, or if the launch of these new products is delayed for any other reason beyond their anticipated launch dates, our projected growth rates may not be achieved. We may be unable to control the cost of ongoing content collection or the cost of collecting new content types to support new product offerings. We continue to adopt more efficient content collection methods, which allow us to increase our content collection without significantly increasing our cost of revenue. We will need to identify cost effective sources and develop efficient collection processes for new content types required to support our new product development plan. If we are unable to find new ways to collect content efficiently, and aggregate new content types in a cost effective manner, our gross margins may decrease. We have invested significant capital into the development of new products, such as Onvia Planning and Construction and Term Contract Reports, and if new products fail to meet expectations we may not achieve our anticipated return on these investments. Onvia Planning and Construction was launched in February 2008 and we expect to generate a significant portion of our revenue from this product in the future. We expect to launch additional new products in 2008 and expect to see continued increases in adoption of Onvia Business Builder and Onvia Navigator throughout 2008 and beyond. If adoption of these and other new product introductions is not consistent with our expectations, we will not see the expected return on these investments. We may improperly price our new product offerings for broad client acceptance. We plan to implement price increases with respect to some of our existing products in 2008. We have developed pricing strategies for our Onvia Planning and Construction product, and we will also be required to develop new pricing strategies for planned new product launches, and packaged pricing strategies for our existing products in 2008. If existing clients do not perceive that the pricing of our products is commensurate with the value they receive from the products, or if our sales staff is unable to communicate the value of the products, new client adoption and existing client retention would be adversely impacted. We may overestimate the value of sales intelligence to companies in the infrastructure marketplace. We believe there is a large unmet market need for robust public and private sector sales and marketing information. Our business model assumes that clients will pay us an annual fee for this information and that we will see increases in the annual value of these contracts in the near-term and in the long-term. If we have overestimated the value of this information, we will not achieve our forecasted revenue goals. 10 Financial, economic and market risks We have a limited operating history, making it difficult to evaluate our business and future prospects. Onvia has been serving businesses since March 1997 and has been focusing on including government agencies in our network since April 2001. We have a limited operating history upon which an investor may evaluate our business and prospects. Our potential for future profitability must be considered in light of the risks, uncertainties, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in early stages of development, particularly companies in new and rapidly evolving markets, such as e-marketplaces. We may not successfully address any of these risks. We may not be able to continue to generate positive cash flows from operations. 2007 represented the first year in Onvia’s history that we generated positive cash flow from operations. Due to seasonal fluctuations in our business, we did not generate positive cash flow from operations in the third quarter of 2007, but we did generate positive cash flow in the other quarters in the year and for the full year. Due to these seasonal fluctuations and limited performance history on client adoption of new products, we may not be able to continue to achieve positive cash flow from operations in the near term. Our quarterly financial results are subject to fluctuations that may make it difficult to forecast our future performance. We have experienced some seasonal fluctuations in our business, reflecting a combination of seasonal trends for the services and products we offer, as well as seasonal trends in the buying habits of our target business clients and government agencies. We expect our revenue and operating results to continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter, making it difficult to formulate meaningful comparisons of our results between quarters. Our limited operating history and evolving business model further contribute to the difficulty of making meaningful quarterly comparisons. A significant portion of our subscription revenue for a particular quarter is derived from transactions that are initiated in previous quarters, because revenue is recognized ratably over the subscription term. Our current and future levels of operating expenses and capital expenditures are based largely on our growth plans and estimates of future revenue. These expenditure levels are, to a large extent, fixed in the short term. We may not be able to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall, and any significant shortfall in revenue relative to planned expenditures could harm our business and results of operations. We have implemented anti-takeover provisions that may discourage takeover attempts and depress the market price of our stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, Onvia’s state of incorporation, can have the effect of making it difficult for a third-party to acquire Onvia, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include: • the classification of Onvia’s Board of Directors into three classes so that the directors serve staggered three-year terms, which may make it difficult for a potential acquirer to gain control of our Board; • authorizing the issuance of shares of undesignated preferred stock without a vote of stockholders; and • non-cumulative voting for the election of directors. In addition, in 2002, our Board of Directors adopted a Stockholders Rights Agreement, designed to protect stockholder interests in the event of an unsolicited takeover attempt by distributing one preferred stock purchase right for each outstanding share of common stock. The Rights Agreement may make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire Onvia. Operational risks System failures could cause an interruption in the services of our network and impact our ability to compile information and deliver our product to our clients. Any system failure that causes an interruption in the service of our suite of products, disrupts our ability to aggregate, organize and publish new content, or reduces timely access to and delivery of our content could result in client dissatisfaction, which would impact client acquisition and retention rates. Further, prolonged or ongoing performance problems on our web sites or our application servers, which support bid creation and distribution, could damage our reputation and result in the permanent loss of clients. In the past, system interruptions have made our web sites and our 11 application servers totally unavailable, slowed their response time or prevented us from making our service available to our clients, and these problems may occur again in the future. We may not have sufficient business interruption insurance to cover losses from major interruptions. We have deployed our primary business application servers to a secure offsite facility with backup utility power and redundant Internet connectivity. Our current disaster recovery systems are designed to ensure that a portion of our Information Technology and Research department functions will be operational in the event of a local building disaster, so that delivery of our product will not be significantly interrupted. Our disaster recovery plan is not yet finalized to include automated failover of product distribution-related systems; requiring some manual intervention to complete the failover process. Clients and visitors to our web site depend on their own Internet service providers, online service providers and other web site operators for access to our web sites. These providers have experienced significant outages in the past, and could experience outages, delays and other difficulties due to system failures unrelated to Onvia’s systems. Our current technology infrastructure and network software systems may be unable to accommodate our anticipated growth, and we may require a significant investment in these systems to accommodate performance and storage requirements of new and planned products. Our new Onvia Planning and Construction product, expansion of historical content contained in our Onvia Dominion® database and future product offerings have and will place significant additional demands on our network and on our database. We add thousands of records to our database each day, which has required us to expand the storage capacity of our database. If new content types or product introductions change current network and database requirements or if growth in our client base exceeds our expectations, we may be required to make significant investments to upgrade our systems to accommodate such changes, which could negatively impact our cash flows and results of operations. We may not be successful in our efforts to upgrade our systems, or if we do successfully upgrade our systems, we may not do so on time and within budget. Failure to achieve a stable technological platform in time to handle increasing network traffic may discourage potential clients from using our network. We may not be able to retain the services of our executive officers, directors, senior managers and other key employees, which would harm our business. Our business and operations are substantially dependent on the performance of our senior management, directors and key employees. The loss and inability to replace any of these employees or directors would likely harm our business. We may be required to continue to leverage third-party recruiting firms to a greater extent than anticipated to assist in hiring key employees. The employment market in Seattle is extremely competitive. If we are unable to internally recruit candidates to fill key open positions, we may be required to use outside recruiting firms to assist in hiring, which would increase our operating expenses and would adversely impact our results of operations. Political, social or environmental conditions in off-shore locations may impact the collection and delivery of our content. Portions of our content are aggregated and/or formatted by off-shore vendors. Delivery of that content may be impacted by local political, social or environmental conditions, which may result in delayed delivery to our clients resulting in client dissatisfaction. We also outsource portions of the development of new products to off-shore vendors. Political, social or environmental conditions in those locations may result in delays of new product introductions. We may be unable to effectively monitor and prevent unauthorized redistribution of our published information. In the past we have identified a number of entities that have redistributed our proprietary information without our authorization and against our terms of use. We have been and will continue to be aggressive about monitoring and combating such unauthorized use, and are considering technological avenues for blocking such users from our database. However, if we fail to effectively combat such unauthorized use, our business could be harmed. 12 Our services and products depend upon the continued availability of licensed technology from third parties, and we may not be able to obtain those licenses on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We license, and will continue to license, technology integral to our services and products from third parties. If we are unable to acquire or retain key third-party product licenses or integrate the related third-party products into our network services, our service and product development may be delayed. We also expect to require new licenses in the future as our business grows and technology evolves. We may not be able to obtain these licenses on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Increased blocking of our emails could negatively impact client satisfaction with our products and could inhibit the effectiveness of our marketing efforts. Portions of our content are currently delivered in the form of an attached file via email. Some network administrators could flag and block emails from Onvia due to increased filtering of email attachments as a result of the threat of email borne viruses or unwanted “spam”, or for other reasons. We also conduct marketing campaigns to our customer base and occasionally these campaigns are done via email. Excessive filtering of our emails could negatively impact client satisfaction and could inhibit our marketing efforts. Regulatory, judicial or legislative risks Any settlement or claim awarded against Onvia in our ongoing litigation matters could negatively impact our operating results. Onvia is defending against the litigation matters as detailed in the legal proceedings section in Item 3 of Part I of this Report. We have directors and officers insurance of $30 million that would cover defense costs and any award or settlement, less our deductible of $250,000, in the securities class action suit. While we believe we have a strong defense in this case, we cannot be certain that the outcome of the case will be favorable to Onvia. A settlement or award in this or other potential suits could negatively impact our operating results. It is also possible that defense of this and future claims may result in a significant diversion of management attention. Future regulations could be enacted that either directly restrict our business or indirectly impact our business by limiting the growth of e-commerce. As e-commerce evolves, federal, state, local and foreign agencies could adopt regulations covering issues such as privacy, content and taxation of services and products. If enacted, government regulations could limit the market for our services and offerings. Although many regulations might not apply to our business directly, we expect that laws regulating the collection or processing of personal or consumer information could indirectly affect our business. It is possible that legislation could expose companies involved in e-commerce to restrictions or liability, which could limit the growth of e-commerce generally. Legislation could hinder the growth in Internet use and decrease its acceptance as a medium for communication and commerce. If laws were enacted that made our products taxable at the state level, we may be required to pass those additional taxes along to our customers, which would increase the overall cost of our product to our end users and could impact the buying decisions of existing and potential new clients. Our access to new content from governmental entities and other third parties may be restricted if bid aggregation on the Internet is restricted by law or regulations. We aggregate new information from various public data sources and we do not have exclusive access to this content. We cannot ensure that these data sources will continue to be available in the future. Moreover, public disclosure laws, which require governmental entities to produce bid information directly to members of the public, may negatively impact our business and reduce the value of our services to our clients. The loss or the unavailability of our data sources in the future, or the loss of our right to distribute some of the data sources, would harm our business. Our proprietary bid aggregation technology is integral to our success. If the process of bid aggregation becomes regulated in the future and our process for acquiring government bids is no longer cost-effective, our business will be significantly harmed. If new regulations restricting our ability to charge a fee for public bid information are enacted, our business will be significantly harmed. 13 Utilization of our net operating loss, or NOL, carryforwards may be subject to annual limitations provided by the Internal Revenue Service code. We have substantial net operating loss carryforwards that could be used to offset future tax liabilities once we begin generating taxable income. Utilization of these NOLs may be subject to a substantial limitation due to ownership change limitations provided by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, which may limit the amount of NOL carryforwards that can be utilized annually to offset future taxable income and tax, respectively. Limitations on the utilization of these NOLs could adversely impact our operating results and cash flows. Available Information Onvia files with and furnishes to the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, periodic reports, including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy and information statements, and other information, along with amendments to such reports. Onvia’s SEC filings are posted on the SEC’s Web site at http://www.sec.gov, which contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Materials that the Company files with the SEC are also available at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. Information regarding the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Onvia’s annual report on Form 10-K, along with all other reports and amendments filed with or furnished to the SEC are available on the “About Onvia” section of our website at www.onvia.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we file them with, or furnish them to, the SEC. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 