Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks. Some of these risks are described below, and you should take such risks into account in evaluating us or any investment decision involving our Company. This section does not describe all risks that may be applicable to us, our industry or our business, and it is intended only as a summary of certain material risk factors. More detailed information concerning the risk factors described below is contained in other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS Store profitability is sensitive to changes in sales volume. Each factory store has significant fixed or semi-fixed costs, and margins and profitability are significantly affected by doughnut sales volume. Because significant fixed and semi-fixed costs prevent us from reducing our operating expenses in proportion with declining sales, our earnings are negatively impacted if sales decline. A number of factors have historically affected, and will continue to affect, our sales results, including, among other factors: Consumer trends, preferences and disposable income; Our ability to execute our business strategy effectively; Competition; General regional and national economic conditions; and Seasonality and weather conditions. Changes in our sales results could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. We rely in part on our franchisees. Disputes with our franchisees, or failures by our franchisees to operate successfully, to develop or finance new stores or build them on suitable sites or open them on schedule, could adversely affect our growth and our operating results. Franchisees, which are all independent operators and not Krispy Kreme employees, contributed (including through purchases from KK Supply Chain) approximately 33% of our total revenues in fiscal 2014. We rely in part on these franchisees and the manner in which they operate their locations to develop and promote our business. We occasionally have disputes with franchisees, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We provide training and support to franchisees, but the quality of franchise store operations may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control. The failure of our franchisees to operate franchises successfully could have a material adverse effect on us, our reputation and our brands, and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, although we do not control our franchisees and they operate as independent contractors, actions taken by any of our franchisees may be seen by the public as actions taken by us, which, in turn, could adversely affect our reputation or brands. Lack of access to financing by our franchisees on reasonable terms could adversely affect our future operations by limiting franchisees’ ability to open new stores or leading to additional franchisee store closures, which would in turn reduce our franchise revenues and KK Supply Chain revenues. Most development agreements specify a schedule for opening stores in the territory covered by the agreement. These schedules form the basis for our expectations regarding the number and timing of new Krispy Kreme store openings. In the past, Krispy Kreme has agreed to extend or modify development schedules for certain franchisees and may do so in the future. Franchisees opened 107 stores, acquired six stores from Company stores and closed 31 stores in fiscal 2014. Royalty revenues and most KK Supply Chain revenues are directly related to sales by franchise stores and, accordingly, the success of franchisees’ operations has a direct effect on our revenues, results of operations and cash flows. A portion of our growth strategy depends on opening new Krispy Kreme stores both domestically and internationally. Our ability to expand our store base is influenced by factors beyond our and our franchisees’ control, which may slow store development and impair our strategy. Our recent growth reflects the opening of new Krispy Kreme stores internationally, while the number of domestic franchise shops has remained almost constant over the past three years. Our ability to expand our store base both domestically and internationally is influenced by factors beyond our and our franchisees’ control, which may slow store development and impair our growth strategy. The success of these new stores will be dependent in part on a number of factors, which neither we nor our franchisees can control. Our new domestic store operating model may not be successful. We are working to refine our domestic store operating model to focus on small retail shops, including both shops that manufacture doughnuts but which are smaller and less costly to build and operate than traditional factory shops and, to a lesser extent, on satellite shops that are provided doughnuts from a single traditional factory store or commissary at which all doughnut production for the market takes place. The Company currently operates 14 small factory shops, including both free-standing and end-cap locations, and 19 satellite shops. The Company currently plans to open from 10 to 15 new Company-operated small factory shops in fiscal 2015. Domestic franchisees are expected to open a combination of small factory shops and satellite locations in fiscal 2015. The objectives of the small shop format include reducing the initial investment required to open a Krispy Kreme shop, reducing shop operating costs, lowering breakeven points, growing sales in each market, and improving overall shop profitability. We cannot predict whether these new formats will be successful in improving our profitability. 27 Political, economic, currency and other risks associated with our international operations could adversely affect our and our international franchisees’ operating results. As of February 2, 2014, there were 574 Krispy Kreme stores operated outside of the United States, representing 69% of our total store count, all of which were operated by franchisees. Our revenues from international franchisees are exposed to the potentially adverse effects of our franchisees’ operations, political instability, currency exchange rates, local economic conditions and other risks associated with doing business in foreign countries. Royalties are based on a percentage of net sales generated by our foreign franchisees’ operations. Royalties payable to us by our international franchisees are based on a conversion of local currencies to U.S. dollars using the prevailing exchange rate, and changes in exchange rates could adversely affect our revenues. To the extent that the portion of our revenues generated from international operations increases in the future, our exposure to changes in foreign political and economic conditions and currency fluctuations will increase. We typically export our products, principally our doughnut mixes and doughnut mix concentrates, to our franchisees in markets outside the United States. Numerous government regulations apply to both the export of food products from the United States as well as the import of food products into other countries. If one or more of the ingredients in our products are banned, alternative ingredients would need to be identified. Although we intend to be proactive in addressing any product ingredient issues, such requirements may delay our ability to open stores in other countries in accordance with our desired schedule. Our profitability is sensitive to changes in the cost of fuel and raw materials. Although we utilize forward purchase contracts and futures contracts and options on such contracts to mitigate the risks related to commodity price fluctuations, such contracts do not fully mitigate commodity price risk, particularly over the longer term. In addition, the portion of our anticipated future commodity requirements that is subject to such contracts varies from time to time. Flour, shortening and sugar are our three most significant ingredients. We also purchase a substantial amount of gasoline to fuel our fleet of wholesale delivery vehicles. The prices of wheat and soybean oil, which are the principal components of flour and shortening respectively, and of sugar and gasoline, have been volatile in recent years. Adverse changes in commodity prices could adversely affect the Company’s profitability. We are the exclusive supplier of doughnut mixes or mix concentrates to all Krispy Kreme stores worldwide. We also supply other key ingredients and flavors to all domestic Krispy Kreme Company stores. If we have any problems supplying these ingredients, our and our franchisees’ ability to make doughnuts could be negatively affected. We are the exclusive supplier of doughnut mixes for many domestic and international Krispy Kreme stores. As to other stores, we are the exclusive supplier of doughnut mix concentrates that are blended with other ingredients to produce doughnut mixes. We also are the exclusive supplier of other key ingredients and flavors to all domestic Company stores, most domestic franchise stores and some international franchise stores. We manufacture the doughnut mixes and concentrates at our mix manufacturing facility located in Winston-Salem, North Carolina. We distribute doughnut mixes and other key ingredients and flavors using independent contract distributors for Krispy Kreme shops domestically and internationally. We have a backup source to manufacture our doughnut mixes in the event of a loss of our Winston-Salem facility; this backup source currently produces mix for us for distribution in most Krispy Kreme stores west of the Mississippi River. Nevertheless, an interruption of production capacity at our manufacturing facility could impede our ability or that of our franchisees to make doughnuts. In addition, in the event that any of our supplier relationships terminate unexpectedly, even where we have multiple suppliers for the same ingredient, we may not be able to obtain adequate quantities of the same high-quality ingredient at competitive prices. We are the only manufacturer of substantially all of our doughnut-making equipment. If we have any problems producing this equipment, our stores’ ability to make doughnuts could be negatively affected. We manufacture our custom doughnut-making equipment in one facility in Winston-Salem, North Carolina. Although we have limited backup sources for the production of our equipment, obtaining new equipment quickly in the event of a loss of our Winston-Salem facility would be difficult and would jeopardize our ability to supply equipment to new stores or new parts for the maintenance of existing equipment in established stores on a timely basis. 28 We have only one supplier of glaze flavoring, and any interruption in supply could impair our ability to make our signature hot Original Glazed® doughnut. We utilize a sole supplier for our glaze flavoring. However, the supplier has multiple plants, and has a backup manufacturing agreement with another manufacturing company. Any interruption in the delivery of glaze flavoring could adversely affect our ability to produce our signature hot Original Glazed® doughnut. We are subject to franchise laws and regulations that govern our status as a franchisor and regulate some aspects of our franchise relationships. Our ability to develop new franchised stores and to enforce contractual rights against franchisees may be adversely affected by these laws and regulations, which could cause our franchise revenues to decline. As a franchisor, we are subject to regulation by the FTC and by domestic and foreign laws regulating the offer and sale of franchises. Our failure to obtain or maintain approvals to offer franchises would cause us to lose future franchise revenues and KK Supply Chain revenues. In addition, domestic or foreign laws that regulate substantive aspects of our relationships with franchisees may limit our ability to terminate or otherwise resolve conflicts with our franchisees. Because we plan to grow primarily through franchising, any impairment of our ability to develop new franchise stores will negatively affect us and our growth strategy. Sales to wholesale customers represent a significant portion of our sales. The infrastructure necessary to support wholesale distribution results in significant fixed and semi-fixed costs. Also, the loss of one of our large wholesale customers could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have several large wholesale customers. Our top two such customers accounted for approximately 17% of total Company Stores segment revenues during fiscal 2014. The loss of one of our large national wholesale customers could adversely affect our results of operations across all domestic business segments. These customers do not enter into long-term contracts; instead, they make purchase decisions based on a combination of price, product quality, consumer demand and service quality. They may in the future use more of their shelf space, including space currently used for our products, for other products, including private label products. If our sales to one or more of these customers are reduced, this reduction may adversely affect our business. The Company operates a fleet network to support wholesale sales. Declines in wholesale sales without a commensurate reduction in operating expenses, as well as rising fuel costs, may adversely affect our business. Our failure or inability to enforce our trademarks could adversely affect the value of our brands. We own certain common-law trademark rights in the United States, as well as numerous trademark and service mark registrations in the United States and in other jurisdictions. We believe that our trademarks and other intellectual property rights are important to our success and our competitive position. We therefore devote appropriate resources to the protection of our trademarks and aggressively pursue persons who unlawfully and without our consent use or register our trademarks. We have a system in place that is designed to detect potential infringement on our trademarks, and we take appropriate action with regard to such infringement as circumstances warrant. The protective actions that we take, however, may not be sufficient, in some jurisdictions, to secure our trademark rights for some of the goods and services that we offer or to prevent imitation by others, which could adversely affect the value of our trademarks and service marks. In certain jurisdictions outside the United States, specifically Costa Rica, Guatemala, India, Indonesia, Nigeria, Peru, the Philippines and Venezuela, we are aware that some businesses have registered, used and/or may be using “Krispy Kreme” (or its phonetic equivalent) in connection with doughnut-related goods and services. There may be similar such uses or registrations of which we are unaware and which could perhaps arise from prior users. These uses and/or registrations could limit our operations and possibly cause us to incur litigation costs, or pay damages or licensing fees to a prior user or registrant of similar intellectual property. Loss of our trade secret recipes could adversely affect our sales. We derive significant competitive benefit from the fact that our doughnut recipes are trade secrets. Although we take reasonable steps to safeguard our trade secrets, should they become known to competitors, our competitive position could suffer substantially. Recent healthcare legislation could adversely affect our business. Federal legislation regarding government-mandated health benefits is expected to increase our and our domestic franchisees’ costs. Due to the breadth and complexity of the healthcare legislation, the lack of implementing regulations and interpretive guidance, and the phased-in nature of the implementation, it is difficult to predict the overall impact of the healthcare legislation on our business and the businesses of our domestic franchisees over the coming years. Possible adverse effects of the legislation include increased costs, exposure to expanded liability and requirements for us to revise the ways in which we conduct business. Our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be adversely affected. Our domestic franchisees face the potential of similar adverse effects. 29 We rely on information technology in our operations and are making improvements to important business systems. Any material failure, inadequacy or interruption of that technology could adversely affect our ability to effectively operate our business and result in financial or other loss. We are making investments to improve our information technology systems infrastructure designed to improve our operational capabilities and effectiveness and to provide modern technology platforms to support future growth of our business. We are in the process of implementing a new enterprise resource planning system and various other technology enhancements to improve our business capabilities. Implementing these systems is a lengthy and expensive process that may result in a diversion of resources from other initiatives and activities. Continued execution of the project plans, or a divergence from them, may result in cost overruns, project delays or business interruptions. Business interruptions also could result from the failure of other important information technology platforms we use to operate our business. Any disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the design and/or implementation of any of these systems, or our inability to accurately predict the costs of such initiatives or our failure to generate revenue and corresponding profits from such activities and investments, could impact our ability to perform necessary business operations, which could adversely affect our reputation, competitive position, business, results of operations and financial condition. RISKS RELATING TO THE FOOD SERVICE INDUSTRY The food service industry is affected by consumer preferences and perceptions. Changes in these preferences and perceptions may lessen the demand for our doughnuts, which would reduce sales and harm our business. Food service businesses are often affected by changes in consumer tastes, national, regional and local economic conditions and demographic trends. Individual store performance may be adversely affected by traffic patterns, the cost and availability of labor, purchasing power, availability of products and the type, number and location of competing stores. Our sales have been and may continue to be affected by changing consumer tastes, such as health or dietary preferences that cause consumers to avoid doughnuts in favor of foods that are perceived as healthier. Moreover, because we are primarily dependent on a single product, if consumer demand for doughnuts should decrease, our business would suffer more than if we had a more diversified menu. The food service industry is affected by litigation, regulation and publicity concerning food quality, health and other issues, which can cause customers to avoid our products and result in liabilities. Food service businesses can be adversely affected by litigation, by regulation and by complaints from customers or government authorities resulting from food quality, illness, injury or other health concerns or operating issues stemming from one store or a limited number of stores, including stores operated by our franchisees. In addition, class action lawsuits have been filed and may continue to be filed against various food service businesses (including quick service restaurants) alleging, among other things, that food service businesses have failed to disclose the health risks associated with high-fat foods and that certain food service business marketing practices have encouraged obesity. Adverse publicity about these allegations may negatively affect us and our franchisees, regardless of whether the allegations are true, by discouraging customers from buying our products. Because one of our competitive strengths is the taste and quality of our doughnuts, adverse publicity or regulations relating to food quality or other similar concerns affect us more than it would food service businesses that compete primarily on other factors. We could also incur significant liabilities if such a lawsuit or claim results in a decision against us or as a result of litigation costs regardless of the result. The food service industry is affected by food safety issues, including food tampering or contamination. Food safety, including the possibility of food tampering or contamination is a concern for any food service business. Any report or publicity linking the Company or one of its franchisees to food safety issues, including food tampering or contamination, could adversely affect our reputation as well as our revenues and profits. Food safety issues could also adversely affect the price and availability of affected ingredients, which could result in disruptions in our supply chain or lower margins for us and our franchisees. Additionally, food safety issues could expose the Company to litigation or governmental investigation. The food service industry is affected by security risks for individually identifiable data of our guests, web-site users, and team members. We receive and, in certain cases, maintain certain personal information about our guests, web-site users, and team members. The use of this information by us is regulated by applicable law, as well as by certain third party contracts. If our security and information systems are compromised or our business associates fail to comply with these laws and regulations and this information is obtained by unauthorized persons or used inappropriately, it could adversely affect our reputation, as well as our operations, their results and our financial condition. Additionally, we could be subject to litigation or the imposition of penalties. As privacy and information security laws and regulations change, we may incur additional costs to ensure we remain in compliance with these laws and regulations. 30 Our success depends on our ability to compete with many food service businesses. We compete with many well-established food service companies. At the retail level, we compete with other doughnut retailers and bakeries, specialty coffee retailers, bagel shops, fast-food restaurants, delicatessens, take-out food service companies, convenience stores and supermarkets. At the wholesale level, we compete primarily with grocery store bakeries, packaged snack foods and vending machine dispensers of snack foods. Aggressive pricing by our competitors or the entrance of new competitors into our markets could reduce our sales and profit margins. Moreover, many of our competitors offer consumers a wider range of products. Many of our competitors or potential competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do which may allow them to react to changes in pricing, marketing and the quick service restaurant industry better than we can. As competitors expand their operations, we expect competition to intensify. In addition, the start-up costs associated with retail doughnut and similar food service establishments are not a significant impediment to entry into the retail doughnut business. We also compete with other employers in our markets for hourly workers and may be subject to higher labor costs. RISKS RELATING TO OWNERSHIP OF OUR COMMON STOCK The market price of our common stock has been volatile and may continue to be volatile, and the value of any investment may decline. The market price of our common stock has been volatile and may continue to be volatile. This volatility may cause wide fluctuations in the price of our common stock, which is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. The market price may fluctuate in response to many factors including: Changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets; Variations in our quarterly operating results or our operating results failing to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors in a particular period; Changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; Other developments affecting Krispy Kreme, our industry, customers or competitors; The operating and stock price performance of companies that investors deem comparable to Krispy Kreme; and The impact of our share repurchase program. Our charter, bylaws and tax asset protection plan contain provisions that may make it more difficult or expensive to acquire us in the future or may negatively affect our stock price. Our articles of incorporation, bylaws and tax asset protection plan contain several provisions that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions may make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting common stock. They may also delay, prevent or deter a merger, acquisition, tender offer, proxy contest or other transaction that might otherwise result in our shareholders’ receiving a premium over the market price for their common stock. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 