Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below before deciding whether to invest in our common stock. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations and financial results. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. This report as well as our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks described below. See “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our business is subject to many risks and uncertainties, which may affect our future financial performance. Because of the risks and uncertainties discussed below, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance should not be considered as a reliable indicator of future performance and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Our mobile advertising business is dependent upon relationships with Wireless Carriers who control access to their networks and a significant portion of our costs of sales. If we cannot secure access to the Wireless Carriers’ networks at reasonable rates, our ability to generate revenues and profits will be significantly impaired. In our mobile phone business, we charge Brand Owners a price for sending out SMS or MMS messages to their customers. We contract with Wireless Carriers to send the SMS or MMS messages over their networks at bulk rates. We generate gross profit on the difference between the price we charge the Brand Owner and the price we pay to the Wireless Carrier. We are in varying stages of business development and testing with Wireless Carriers in several countries. Those relationships do not grant us exclusive access to those networks and third parties are allowed similar access to the network. We currently have access to the majority of Wireless Carriers in the United States through a third-party connectivity aggregation agreement, but have not generated revenues from that relationship to date. Our business plan contemplates t hat we will increase our revenues through establishing additional relationships with Wireless Carriers worldwide. If, for any reason, we are unable to secure or maintain relationships with Wireless Carriers we will not be able to generate additional revenues and our business will not develop. The Wireless Carriers set the rates for the messages we send over their network, as well as the cost to their subscribers for data access. Network access is the largest component of cost of sales for our mobile phone business. If the Wireless Carriers increase the rates that they charge us for sending messages, we may be forced to increase our prices to Brand Owners. Higher prices may cause Brand Owners to look for alternative forms of advertising or otherwise decrease the amount of business that they do with us. If we incur increased rates from Wireless Carriers and cannot pass the increase on to the Brand Owners we may experience declines in our gross margins and profitability. Wireless Carriers also have control over billings and collections for our messages and services. If a Wireless Carrier, or their third-party service provider, provides billing and collection services to us which are defective or inaccurate, our revenues may be less than anticipated or may be subject to refund at the discretion of the Wireless Carrier or our Brand Owner customers. The mobile phone industry is going through rapid technological change. The introduction of smart phones, such as the Apple iPhone, BlackBerry and several Nokia models is resulting in the rapid development of mobile applications. Our existing and future applications will take advantage of these enhanced phones. Many of the Wireless Carriers throughout the world do not yet have fully operational new generation MMS messaging platforms installed. A major capital investment is required in order to deliver the infrastructure for high speed MMS messaging and data services. A Wireless Carrier’s decision to build in a territory, and the timing of these build outs, will impact our ability to offer more advanced services. Deteriorating macroeconomic conditions have negatively impacted certain parts of our business and a further weakening of macroeconomic conditions may have additional negative impacts on our business. In 2010, our mobile advertising business began experiencing weakness as a result of the deteriorating macroeconomic conditions in South Africa. We are not able to predict whether general macroeconomic conditions in the United States or abroad, or conditions in mobile or internet advertising industries specifically, will worsen or improve, or the timing of such developments. If macroeconomic conditions worsen, such worsening conditions may cause declines in the marketing industry in general, and our results of operations specifically. Further, when macroeconomic conditions do improve, there can be no assurances that we will be able to regain the levels of revenue and profitability that we achieved prior to the macroeconomic downturn. 20 As an advertising company, our business is dependent upon the level of advertising by Brand Owners. We are subject to macroeconomic fluctuations in the U.S. and global economies, including those that impact discretionary consumer spending, which may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. Some of the factors that could influence the level of consumer spending include continuing conditions in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, labor and healthcare costs, access to credit, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending. If the economy enters a prolonged period of decelerating growth or recession, advertisers may reduce the amount of their advertising expenses and the results of our operations may be harmed. As a result of these and other factors, our operating resul ts may not meet the expectations of investors or public market analysts who choose to follow our company. Any failure to meet market expectations would likely result in decreases in the trading price of our common stock. Our industry is subject to risks generally associated with the advertising industry, any of which could significantly harm our operating results. Our business is subject to risks that are generally associated with the advertising industry, many of which are beyond our control. These risks could negatively impact our operating results. Potential advertising related risks include the following: · the commercial success of our Brand Owner’s brands; · economic conditions that adversely affect discretionary consumer spending; · changes in consumer demographics; · the availability and popularity of other forms of media and entertainment; and · critical reviews and public tastes and preferences, which may change rapidly and cannot necessarily be predicted. Our limited operating history may not serve as an adequate basis to judge future prospects and results of operations. As a result of our short operating history, we have limited financial data that can be used to evaluate our business. In addition we have completed a number of acquisitions and dispositions of assets over the past three years. As a result, our historical financial statements and results of operations may not provide meaningful guidance to form an assessment of the prospects or potential success of our future business operations. We are an early stage company and face increased risks and uncertainties inherent to companies that are still developing their business. Any evaluation of our business and our prospects must be considered in the light of our limited operating history and the risks and uncertainties encountered by companies in our stage of development. As an early-stage company in the emerging mobile and internet marketing industry, we face increased risks, uncertainties, expenses and difficulties. To address these risks and uncertainties, we must do the following: · expand our digital advertising distribution channels, including Wireless Carrier networks, and internet-based networks; · successfully establish direct and indirect sales channels, and develop effective value propositions to attract Brand Owners to our advertising platforms; · develop and deliver high-quality content for advertisements and promotions that achieve significant market acceptance; · respond to market developments, including next-generation software and mobile phone and radio broadcasting platforms, emerging technologies and pricing and distribution models; · establish and implement integrated financial and accounting policies, procedures, systems and controls; · enhance our information technology and processing systems; · successfully integrate products or companies that we may acquire; · execute our business and marketing strategies successfully; and · attract, integrate, retain and motivate qualified personnel. 21 We may be unable to accomplish one or more of these objectives, which could cause our business to suffer. In addition, accomplishing many of these efforts might be very expensive, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. We became engaged in our current business in early 2008 yet the Company was incorporated in 1999. There may be risks and liabilities that are unknown to our management resulting from operations prior to our implementation of our current business plan. The Company was incorporated in 1999. However, we became engaged in our current business of mobile and internet marketing in early 2008. Between 1999 and 2008, the Company was engaged in different lines of business including discount brokerage and financial services and mortgage banking. The Company also existed as a shell company for a period of time with the intent of entering into business combinations with companies in the apparel industry. Our current management was not involved with the Company prior to early 2008. There may be risks and liabilities resulting from the conduct of the Company’s business prior to February 2008 that are unknown to our current management and therefore are not disclosed in this registration statement. We may require additional capital in order to execute our business plan, and we have no current arrangements in place for any such financing. The operation of our business, and our efforts to grow our business, might require significant cash outlays and commitments. As part of our plan to secure relationships with new Wireless Carrier customers, we have opened and we will continue to open local offices and staff in foreign regions, which will result in additional capital requirements and operating expenses. In addition, we expect to continue to evaluate acquisition opportunities which may require additional capital commitments. If our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investment balances and any cash generated from operations and borrowings are insufficient to meet our cash requirements, we will need to seek additional capital, potentially through debt or equity financings, to fund our operations and debt repayment obligations. We do not have any arrangements in place for significant additional capital at this time and may not be able to raise needed cash. Financings, if available, may be on terms that are dilutive or potentially dilutive to our stockholders, depending on the time, terms and pricing of the financing. The holders of new securities may also receive rights, preferences or privileges that are senior to those of existing holders of our common stock. If new sources of financing are required but are insufficient or unavailable, we would be required to modify our growth and operating plans to the extent of available funding, which would harm our ability to grow our business. Our financial results could vary significantly from quarter to quarter and are difficult to predict, particularly in light of the current economic environment, which in turn could cause volatility in our stock price. Our revenues and operating results could vary significantly from quarter to quarter because of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Factors that may contribute to the variability of our quarterly results include: · our current reliance on large-volume orders from only a few customers; · fluctuations in the number of new mobile advertisements or levels of advertising expenditure by major Brand Owners; · fluctuations in revenues and expenses related to our addition or loss of Wireless Carrier contracts or content licenses; · our competitors may take more significant market share for similar products offered by us to our major clients; · the timing of release of new products and services by us and our competitors, particularly those that may represent a significant portion of revenues in a period; · the popularity of new campaigns and promotions released in prior periods; · the expiration of existing content licenses for particular promotions; · changes in pricing policies by us, our competitors or Wireless Carriers and other distributors; · changes in the mix of products and services we are able to sell which may have varying gross margins; 22 · fluctuations in the overall consumer demand for mobile handsets, mobile campaigns and related content; · strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, divestitures, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments or changes in business strategy; · general economic conditions in developing countries which are in our target markets; · our success in entering new geographic markets; · the timeliness and accuracy of reporting from Wireless Carriers; · the seasonality of our industry; · changes in accounting rules, such as those governing recognition of revenue; · the timing of compensation expenses associated with equity compensation grants; · the timing of charges related to impairments of goodwill and intangible assets; and · decisions by us to incur additional expenses, such as increases in marketing or research and development. As a result, our operating results may experience significant fluctuations from quarter to quarter. Therefore, period-to-period comparisons may not provide meaningful guidance for investors to evaluate our prospective future operating results. In addition, we may not be able to predict our future revenues or results of operations. We base our current and future expense levels on our internal operating plans and sales forecasts, and our operating costs are, to a large extent, fixed. As a result, we may not be able to reduce our costs sufficiently to compensate for an unexpected shortfall in revenues, and even a small shortfall in revenues could disproportionately and adversely affect financial results for that quarter. Our contracts with Wireless Carriers and Brand Owners are generally on a purchase order basis, and we do not have long term agreements with either Brand Owners or Wireless Carriers to assure future revenues or expenses. The Brand Owners upon whom we rely for a substantial portion of our revenues order services from us on a purchase order basis. We are generally required to secure new purchase orders for each new advertising campaign. As a result, we carry little backlog and have limited visibility into the long term purchasing plans of our customers. We purchase bulk message services from Wireless Carriers on a purchase order basis. We do not have long term contracts with Wireless Carriers to protect our access to the network or the prices we pay for network access. Any inability to access Wireless Carrier networks at reasonable rates would have a substantial negative impact on our business. Acquisitions could result in operating difficulties, dilution and other harmful consequences. We have undertaken strategic acquisitions in the past. Our acquisitions of Multimedia Solutions, AdMax, and Jetcast, Inc. businesses form the core of our current business. However, acquisitions involve risks and uncertainties. Certain acquisitions of the Company have not been fully integrated into the offerings of the Company due primarily to order of priority constraints and the costs and time necessary to effect such integrations. We are unable to predict with certainty the costs required to complete the integration of those products or what the market acceptance will be for these products and services. We expect to continue to evaluate and consider a wide array of potential strategic transactions, including business combinations and acquisitions of technologies, services, products and other assets. At any given time, we may be engaged in discussions or negotiations with respect to one or more of these types of transactions. Any of these transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of these operations. The process of integrating any acquired business may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and is itself risky. The areas where we may face difficulties include: · diversion of management time and a shift of focus from operating the businesses to issues related to integration and administration; · declining employee morale and retention issues resulting from changes in compensation, management, reporting relationships, future prospects or the direction of the business; 23 · the need to integrate each acquired company’s accounting, management, information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management, and the lack of control if such integration is delayed or not implemented; · the need to implement controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company that the acquired companies lacked prior to acquisition; · in the case of foreign acquisitions, the need to integrate operations across different cultures and languages and to address the particular economic, currency, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; and · liability for activities of the acquired companies before the acquisition, including violations of laws, rules and regulations, commercial disputes, tax liabilities and other known and unknown liabilities. If the anticipated benefits of any future acquisitions do not materialize, or we experience difficulties integrating businesses acquired in the future, or other unanticipated problems arise, our business, operating results and financial condition may be harmed. In addition, a significant portion of the purchase price of companies we acquire may be allocated to acquired goodwill and other intangible assets, which must be assessed for impairment at least annually. In the future, if our acquisitions do not yield expected returns, we may be required to take charges to our earnings based on this impairment assessment process, which could harm our operating results. The terms of acquisitions may require that we make future cash or stock payments to stockholders of the acquired company, which may strain our cash resources or cause substantial dilution to our existing stockholders at the time the payments are required to be made. We face exchange rate and currency control risks as a result of our international operations. We currently have staff and offices in the United States, South Africa, Mexico, Singapore, the United Kingdom, Colombia, South Korea. As such, we have revenues and expenses in multiple currencies. Consequently, we are exposed to currency fluctuations without a hedging structure in place for significant changes in currency values relative to the U.S. dollar. As we continue to expand internationally we anticipate currency risk management becoming a more important aspect of our business. Conducting business in currencies other than U.S. Dollars subjects us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could have a negative impact on our reported operating results. Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to other currencies impact our revenues, cost of revenues and operating margins and result in foreign currency exchange gains and losses. To date, we have not engaged in exchange rate hedging activities, and we do not expect to do so in the foreseeable future. Even if we were to implement hedging strategies to mitigate this risk, these strategies might not eliminate our exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations and would involve costs and risks of their own, such as cash expenditures, ongoing management time and expertise, external costs to implement the strategies and potential accounting implications. We anticipate earning a significant portion of our future revenue and profits in foreign jurisdictions. Countries, including South Africa, have various restrictions and controls on bring currency into, or distributing currency out of, their county. If we are unable to effectively move and allocate capital among our operating entities it would have a material impact on our financial condition and cash position. We face added business, political, regulatory, operational, financial and economic risks as a result of our international operations, any of which could increase our costs and hinder our growth. International sales represented 75% of our revenues in 2010. In 2010, our international sales were generated primarily in South Africa, Australia and New Zealand. We plan to continue to expand internationally and establish offices in other foreign jurisdictions. There are inherent risks in operating offices in developing countries and we might from time to time be exposed to risks outside of our core business. Risks affecting our international operations include: · political, economic and social instability including military and terrorist attacks; · compliance with multiple and conflicting laws and regulations; · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs, customs, duties and other trade barriers; · potentially adverse tax consequences resulting from changes in tax laws; 24 · challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences; · difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; · potential violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, particularly in certain emerging countries in East Asia, Eastern Europe and Latin America; · longer payment cycles and greater difficulty collecting accounts receivable; · Protectionist laws and business practices that favor local businesses in some countries; · price increases due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates; · price controls; · the servicing of regions by many different Wireless Carriers; · imposition of public sector controls; · restrictions on the export or import of technology; · trade and tariff restrictions and variations in tariffs, quotas, taxes and other market barriers; and · difficulties in enforcing intellectual property rights in certain countries. In addition, developing user interfaces that are compatible with other languages or cultures can be expensive. Our ongoing international expansion efforts may be more costly than we expect. These risks could harm our international operations, which, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. If we are unable to successfully compete in our core market, our ability to retain our customers and attract new customers could decline, as would our revenues. We believe competition will increase as current competitors increase the sophistication of their offerings, as new participants enter the market and as the market continues to grow and, becomes increasingly attractive. The wireless communications and internet markets are continuing to evolve, and technology enhancements may enable the introduction of new and different services. If current or potential customers prefer the products and services offered by competitors over those offered by us, we will not be able to generate or sustain sufficient revenues to develop our business. Certain competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, better brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do and may enter into strategic or commercial relationships with l arger, more established and better financed companies, including Wireless Carriers. Any delay by us in the development or introduction of products or services or updates, would also allow additional time for our competitors to improve their service or product offerings, and for new competitors to develop products and services for our customers and target markets. Increased competition could result in pricing pressures, reduced operating margins and loss of market share, any of which could cause our business to suffer. We face competition from a number of sources including major media companies, traditional publishers, content aggregators, mobile software providers and independent mobile advertising publishers. Wireless Carriers may also decide to develop and distribute their own mobile campaigns. If Wireless Carriers enter the mobile advertising market as publishers, they might refuse to distribute some or all of our MMS messages or might deny us access to all or part of their networks. Some of our competitors’ and our potential competitors’ advantages over us, either globally or in particular geographic markets, include the following: · significantly greater revenues and financial resources; · stronger brand and consumer recognition regionally or worldwide; · the capacity to leverage their marketing expenditures across a broader portfolio of mobile and non-mobile products; · superior intellectual property from which they can develop better technical solutions which might be attractive to Wireless Carriers, internet publishers and Brand Owners; 25 · relationships with Wireless Carriers or Brand Owners that afford them access to intellectual property while blocking the access of competitors to that same intellectual property; · greater resources to make acquisitions; · the ability or willingness to offer competing products at no charge or reduced rates to establish market share; · lower labor and development costs; and · broader global presence and distribution channels. Certain of our large competitors have considerably greater resources than we do, enabling them to develop a broader range of products and services than we can and to do so more quickly, which causes further challenges, especially on the next-generation mobile phone platforms. In addition, given the open nature of the development and distribution for certain next-generation platforms, we also compete with a vast number of small companies and individuals who are able to create and launch mobile campaigns and other content for mobile devices utilizing limited resources and with limited start-up time or expertise. Many of these smaller developers are able to offer their products at low cost or substantially reduce prices to levels at which we are unable to respond competitively and still achieve profitability given their low overheads. If we are unable to compete effectively or we are not as successful as our competitors in our target markets, our sales could decline, our margins could decline and we could lose market share, any of which would materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We currently rely on one Wireless Carrier for substantially all of our MMS business, and expect to be dependent on a limited number of Wireless Carriers for the near future. The loss of or a change in any significant Wireless Carrier relationship, including their credit worthiness, could materially reduce our revenues and adversely impact our cash position. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from one Wireless Carrier. In 2010, we derived approximately 33% of our revenues from Vodafone (Pty) Ltd. While we are attempting to establish relationships with a number of Wireless Carriers, we expect that we will continue to generate a substantial majority of our revenues through distribution relationships with fewer than twenty Wireless Carriers for the foreseeable future. If we are unable to establish relationships with other wireless carriers, or if any of the Wireless Carriers with which we have a relationship decide not to allow us access to their MMS network infrastructure, or decides to terminate or modify the terms of its agreement with us, or if there is consolidation among Wireless Carriers, our operating results and financial position may be adversely af fected. In addition, having our revenues concentrated among a limited number of Wireless Carriers also creates a concentration of financial risk for us, and in the event that any significant Wireless Carrier were unable to fulfill its payment obligations to us, our operating results and cash position would suffer. System or network failures or deficiencies could reduce our sales, increase costs or result in a loss of revenues or customers who use our services. We rely on Wireless Carriers and other third-party data carriers to deliver MMS messages and advertising content to end users and to track and account for the downloading of our messages and advertising content. Some of our technologies for enhancing the performance of our MMS platform are dependent on specific types of access to the Wireless Carrier’s network. If the Wireless Carrier is unable to provide us with the level of connectivity we require, the standard and functionality of our services will be negatively impacted, which will in turn negatively affect our ability to provide services and generate profitability. In certain circumstances, we also rely on our own servers to deliver MMS messages to the Wireless Carriers and to deliver on demand content to end users through the Wireless Carrier’s net works. Any technical problem with Wireless Carriers, third party service providers or our billing, delivery or information systems or communications networks could result in the inability of the Wireless Carriers, or a mobile subscribers to download our content. From time to time, Wireless Carriers may experience failures with their billing and delivery systems and communication networks, including gateway failures that reduce their ability to distribute MMS messages and advertising content. Any such technical problems could cause us to lose revenues or incur substantial repair costs and distract management from operating our business. In our internet business, our success depends on the continuing and uninterrupted performance of our systems. Sustained or repeated system failures that interrupt our ability to provide services to customers, including failures affecting our ability to deliver advertisements quickly and accurately and to process responses to advertisements, would reduce significantly the attractiveness of our solutions to Brand Owners and internet publishers. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could also be materially and adversely affected by any systems damage or failure that impacts data integrity or interrupts or delays our operations. 26 Our own computer systems are vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, including telecommunications failures, power outages, malicious or accidental human acts and natural disasters. We lease data center space in Santa Barbara, California, Johannesburg, South Africa, outside London in the United Kingdom and maintain monitored server equipment at a co-location facility in Los Angeles, California. Despite network security measures, our servers are potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses and similar disruptive problems in part because we cannot control the maintenance and operation of our third-party data centers. Despite the precautions taken, unanticipated problems affecting our systems could cause interruptions in the delivery of our solutions in the future and our ability to provide a record of past transactions. Our data centers and systems incorporate varying degrees of redundancy. In the event of failure, the various data centers and communications systems may not automatically switch over to their redundant counterpart. Our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur due to any failures in our systems. Technology changes in mobile handsets may significantly reduce or eliminate Wireless Carriers’ control over delivery of our MMS messaging products and services and force us to rely on alternative sales channels, which, if not successful, could require us to increase our sales and marketing expenses significantly. Substantially all our MMS messages are currently delivered through Wireless Carriers’ Multimedia Messaging Service Centers or MMSC’s. We have invested significant resources developing software platforms with an established value proposition for Wireless Carriers in order to offer them our products and services. Because of the revenues that they receive from our services, Wireless Carriers have assisted us with introductions to Brand Owners and provided sales support. A growing number of mobile phone handset models currently available allow wireless subscribers to browse the internet and, in some cases, download applications from sources other than a Wireless Carrier’s messaging service. Increased use by subscribers of open operating system handsets or mobile websites will enable them to bypass Wireless Carriers’ services and could reduce the market power of Wireless Carriers as a distribution channel for Brand Owners. This could force us to develop capabilities and solutions for alternative sales channels where we may not be successful selling our MMS messaging services and could require us to increase our sales and marketing expenses significantly. Changes in how we generate internet consumer traffic for our websites and landing pages could negatively impact our ability to maintain or grow our revenue and profitability levels. We generate internet consumer traffic for destination websites using various methods, including: organic traffic, offline marketing campaigns, distribution agreements, search engine marketing and search engine optimization. Our search engine marketing activities include purchasing advertising on third party search engines such as Google, Yahoo or Bing. Search engine optimization is the process of modifying the content and programming of a website in an effort to improve its visibility or ranking on a search engine, thereby driving more traffic to the website. The major search engines use algorithms that try to match website content to a specific search inquiry. The algorithms rank websites against a search based on multiple factors computed in the algorithm. The current revenue and profitability levels of our advert ising and lead generation segments are dependent upon our continued ability to use a combination of these methods to generate internet consumer traffic to our websites in a cost-efficient manner. Our search engine marketing or search engine optimization techniques have been developed to work with the existing search algorithms utilized by the major search engines. The major search engines frequently modify their search algorithms. Future changes in these search algorithms could change the mix of the methods we use to generate internet consumer traffic for destination websites and could negatively impact our ability to generate such traffic in a cost-efficient manner, which could result in a significant reduction to the revenue and profitability of these business segments. There can be no assurances that we will be able to modify our search engine marketing or search engine optimization techniques to address any future search algorithm changes made by the major search engines. If the security of our customers’ confidential information stored in our systems is breached or otherwise subjected to unauthorized access, our reputation may be severely harmed, we may be exposed to liability and we may lose the ability to offer our customers a credit card payment option. Our network system stores data about consumers who have previously interacted with us, customers’ proprietary mobile distribution lists, credit card information and other critical data. Any accidental or willful security breaches or other unauthorized access to consumer information stored on our systems could expose us to liability for the loss of such information, adverse regulatory action by federal and state governments, time-consuming and expensive litigation and other possible liabilities as well as negative publicity, which could severely damage our reputation. If security measures are breached because of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, or if design flaws in our software are exposed and exploited, and, as a result, a third party obtains unauthorized access to any of our cust omers’ data, our relationships with our customers will be severely damaged, and we could incur significant liability. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until they are launched against a target, we and our third-party hosting facilities may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. 27 Many states have enacted laws requiring companies to notify individuals of data security breaches involving their personal data. These mandatory disclosures regarding a security breach often lead to widespread negative publicity, which may cause our customers to lose confidence in the effectiveness of our data security measures. Any security breach, whether actual or perceived, would harm our reputation, and we could lose customers and fail to acquire new customers. If we fail to maintain our compliance with the data protection policy documentation standards adopted by the major credit card issuers, we could lose our ability to offer our customers a credit card payment option. Any loss of our ability to offer our customers a credit card payment option would make our products less attractive to many small organizations by negatively impacting our customer experience and significantly increasing our administrative costs related to current or planned customer payment processing. Our existing general liability insurance may not cover any, or only a portion of any, potential claims to which we are exposed or may not be adequate to indemnify us for all or any portion of liabilities that may be imposed. Any imposition of liability that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of insurance coverage would result in significant expense and reduce our working capital. If the technology that we currently use to target the delivery of internet and mobile advertisements and to prevent fraud on our networks is restricted or becomes subject to regulation, our expenses could increase and we could lose customers or advertising inventory. Websites typically place small files of non-personalized or anonymous information, commonly known as “cookies,” on an internet user’s hard drive. Cookies generally collect information about users on a non-personalized basis to enable websites to provide users with a more customized experience. Cookie information is passed to the website through an internet user’s browser software. We currently use cookies to track an internet user’s movement through our customer’s websites and to monitor and prevent fraudulent activity on our networks. Most currently available internet browsers allow internet users to modify their browser settings to prevent cookies from being stored on their hard drive, and some users currently do so. internet users can also delete cookies from their hard drives at any time. Some internet commentators and privacy advocates have suggested limiting or eliminating the use of cookies, and legislation has been introduced in some jurisdictions to regulate the use of cookie technology. The effectiveness of our technology could be limited by any reduction or limitation in the use of cookies. If the use or effectiveness of cookies were limited, we expect that we would need to switch to other technologies to gather demographic and behavioral information. While such technologies currently exist, they are substantially less effective than cookies. We also expect that we would need to develop or acquire other technology to monitor and prevent fraudulent activity on our networks. Replacement of cookies could require significant reengineering time and resources, might not be completed in time to avoid losing customers or advertising inventory, and might not be commercially viable. Our use of cookie technology or any other technologies designed to collect internet usage information may subject us to litigation or investigations in the future. Any litigation or government action against us could be costly and time consuming, could require us to change our business practices and could divert management’s attention. Various private spam blacklists have in the past interfered with, and may in the future interfere with, the effectiveness of our products and our ability to conduct business. We depend on the internet to market to and communicate with our advertisers, publishers and customers, and our customers rely on our internet platforms and mobile campaigns to communicate with their consumers. Various private entities attempt to regulate the use of mobile devices for commercial solicitation. These entities often advocate standards of conduct or practice that significantly exceed current legal requirements and classify certain mobile solicitations that comply with current legal requirements as spam. Some of these entities maintain “blacklists” of companies and individuals, and the websites, internet Service Providers and internet protocol addresses associated with those entities or individuals that do not adhere to those standards of conduct or practices for commercial mobile solicitation s that the blacklisting entity believes are appropriate. If a company’s internet protocol addresses are listed by a blacklisting entity, messages sent from those addresses may be blocked if they are sent to any internet domain or internet address that subscribes to the blacklisting entity’s service or purchases its blacklist. Some of our internet protocol addresses currently are listed with one or more blacklisting entities and, in the future, our other internet protocol addresses may also be listed with these and other blacklisting entities. There can be no guarantee that we will not continue to be blacklisted or that we will be able to successfully remove ourselves from those lists. Blacklisting of this type could interfere with our ability to market our products and services and communicate with our customers and could undermine the effectiveness of the marketing campaigns we conduct for our Brand Owner customers, all of which could have a material negative impact on our business and results of operations. 28 Our relationships with our channel partners may be terminated or may not continue to be beneficial in generating new customers, which could adversely affect our ability to increase our customer base. Our Lenco Multimedia Inc. and Lenco Media Inc. subsidiaries maintain a network of active website publishers, channel partners and direct sales relationships that refer customers to us. If we are unable to maintain our contractual relationships with existing channel partners or establish new contractual relationships with potential channel partners, we may experience delays and increased costs in adding customers, which could have a material adverse effect on us. The number of customers we are able to add through these marketing relationships is dependent on the marketing efforts of our partners over which we exercise very little control, and a significant decrease in the number of gross customer additions generated through these relationships could adversely affect the size of our customer base and revenue. div> We may experience difficulty in attracting and retaining key personnel, which may negatively affect our ability to develop new products or services or retain and attract customers. At this stage of our operations, we do not have an extensive management or employee base. Accordingly we rely heavily on the actions of relatively few key personnel. The loss of the services of key personnel may adversely affect our ability to achieve our business goals. Our ability to expand our businesses also depends on our ability to recruit, retain and motivate highly skilled sales and marketing, operational, technical and managerial personnel. Competition for these people is intense and we may not be able to successfully recruit, train or retain qualified personnel. If we fail to do so, we may be unable to develop new products or services or continue to provide a high level of customer service, which could result in the loss of customers and revenues. We do not maintain key person life insurance on our employees and have no plans to do so. We rely on trade secrets to protect our proprietary rights, and if these rights are not sufficiently protected, our ability to compete could be harmed. We require our employees and third-party developers to sign agreements not to disclose or improperly use our trade secrets. Those agreements also required them to acknowledge that all inventions, trade secrets, works of authorship, developments and other processes generated by them on our behalf are our property, and to assign to us any ownership they may have in those works. Nonetheless, our employees or independent contractors may breach their agreements, and it may still be possible for third parties to obtain and improperly use our intellectual properties without our consent. This could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Third parties may sue us for intellectual property infringement, which, if successful, may disrupt our business and could require us to pay significant damage awards. Third parties may sue us for intellectual property infringement or initiate proceedings to invalidate our intellectual property, either of which, if successful, could disrupt the conduct of our business, cause us to pay significant damage awards or require us to pay licensing fees. In the event of a successful claim against us, we might be enjoined from using our intellectual property, we might incur significant licensing fees and we might be forced to develop alternative technologies. Our failure or inability to develop non-infringing technology or to license the infringed or similar technology on a timely basis could force us to suspend campaigns, withdraw advertisements from the market or prevent us from introducing new advertisements. In addition, even if we are able to license the infringed or similar technolog y or advertisements, license fees could be substantial and the terms of these licenses could be burdensome, which might adversely affect our operating results. Successful infringement or licensing claims against us might result in substantial monetary liabilities and might materially disrupt the conduct of our business. We might also incur substantial expenses in defending against third-party infringement claims, regardless of their merit. Because a significant portion of our assets are located outside of the United States, it may be difficult for investors to use the United States federal securities laws to enforce their rights against us and some of our officers and directors in the United States. Our Multimedia Solutions subsidiary is located in South Africa and a significant and increasing portion of our operating assets are located outside of the United States. It may therefore be difficult for investors in the United States to enforce their legal rights based on the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws against us in the courts of either the United States, South Africa or another country outside of the U.S. and, even if civil judgments are obtained in courts of the United States, to enforce such judgments in South African or other international courts. Further, it is unclear if extradition treaties now in effect between the United States, South Africa and/or other countries of operation would permit effective enforcement against us or our officers and directors of crimina l penalties, under the United States federal securities laws or otherwise. 29 Risks Related to our Common Stock The trading price of our common stock has experienced, and may continue to experience, periods of high volatility. The trading price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and is expected to continue to fluctuate in the future, as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control, such as: · price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market, including as a result of trends in the economy as a whole, such as the recent and continuing unprecedented volatility in the financial markets; · changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other technology companies generally, or those in our industry in particular, and actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; · any changes in or our failure to meet any financial projections we may provide to the public; · failure of securities analysts to initiate or maintain coverage of us, changes in financial estimates by any securities analysts who follow our company or our industry and our failure to meet these estimates or failure of those analysts to initiate or maintain coverage of our stock; · ratings or other changes by any securities analysts who follow our company or our industry; · announcements by us or our competitors of significant technical innovations, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, capital raising activities or capital commitments; · the public’s response to our press releases or other public announcements, including our filings with the SEC; · lawsuits threatened or filed against us; and · market conditions or trends in our industry. In addition, the stock markets, including the Pink OTC Markets on which our common stock is quoted, have recently and in the past, experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of many companies, some of which appear to be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies traded on such markets. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. Securities class action litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources. Michael Levinsohn, our Chief Executive Officer, and BasTrust Corporation Limited, a trustee of several trusts that own significant equity in the Company control us through their positions and stock ownership and their interests may differ from other stockholders. Our Chief Executive Officer Michael Levinsohn is one of a class of beneficiaries of a trust which owns 50% of an entity that currently owns approximately 16.9% of our common stock. Beneficiaries under those trusts include members of Mr. Levinsohn’s family. In addition Mr. Levinsohn owns 3.4% of our common stock directly. BasTrust Corporation Limited is the sole trustee of certain trusts and acts as nominee for other entities that own approximately 30.4% of our outstanding common stock inclusive of the 16.9% holder described above. As a result, BasTrust Corporation Limited is able to exert significant influence over the outcome of stockholder votes on various matters, including the election of directors and extraordinary corporate transactions, including business combinations. The interests of Mr. Levinsohn and BasTrust Corporation Limited and the beneficiaries of the various trusts it serves may differ from other stockholders. Furthermore, the concentration of ownership in our common stock reduces the public float and liquidity of our common stock, which can in turn affect the market price. We may issue additional shares of our common stock, including through currently outstanding convertible debt securities and conversion of preferred shares, or future issuances of these instruments, to finance future operations or complete a business combination, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and likely cause a change in control of our ownership. 30 We may issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock or preferred stock, or a combination of both, including through convertible debt securities and conversion of preferred shares to common, to finance future operations or complete a business combination. Presently, the Company has 107,500 shares of outstanding Series A Preferred which converts to common stock at a conversion price which will be determined in the future based on the Company’s performance. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or any number of shares of preferred stock, including upon conversion of any debt securities: · may significantly reduce the equity interest of our current stockholders; · will likely cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock or voting preferred stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and could also result in a change in management; and · may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. We are unlikely to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain any future earnings for use in our operations and expansion of our business. We do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future, but will review this policy as circumstances dictate. Should we decide in the future to do so, our ability to pay dividends and meet other obligations depends upon the receipt of dividends or other payments from our operating subsidiaries. In addition, our operating subsidiaries, from time to time, may be subject to restrictions on their ability to make distributions to us, including as a result of restrictions on the conversion of local currency into U.S. Dollars or other hard currency and other regulatory restrictions. Our common stock is traded on the Pink OTC Markets, is illiquid and subject to price volatility unrelated to our operations. Our shares of common stock are currently quoted on the Pink OTC Markets. Many institutional investors have investment policies which prohibit them from trading in stocks on the Pink OTC Markets. As a result, stock quoted on this electronic quotation system generally have limited trading volume and exhibit a wide spread between the bid/ask quotations than stock traded on national exchanges. This thinner trading volume may result in increased price fluctuations. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, including market perception of our ability to achieve our planned growth, our quarterly operating results, operating results of our competitors, trading volume in our common stock, changes in general conditions in the economy and the financial markets or other developments affecting our competitors or us. Certain of these factors can have a significant effect on the market price for our stock for reasons that are unrelated to our operating performance. Our common stock is subject to penny stock rules. Our common stock is subject to Rule 15g-1 through 15g-9 under the Exchange Act, which imposes certain sales practice requirements on broker-dealers which sell our common stock to persons other than established customers and “accredited investors” (generally, individuals with net worth’s in excess of $1,000,000 or annual incomes exceeding $200,000 (or $300,000 together with their spouses)). For transactions covered by this rule, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to the sale. This rule adversely affects the ability of broker-dealers to sell our common stock and the ability of our stockholders to sell their shares of common stock. Additionally, our common stock is subject to the SEC regulations for “penny stock.” Penny stock includes any equity security that is not listed on a national exchange and has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. The regulations require that prior to any non-exempt buy/sell transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule set forth by the SEC relating to the penny stock market must be delivered to the purchaser of such penny stock. This disclosure must include the amount of commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current price quotations for the common stock. The regulations also require that monthly statements be sent to holders of penny stock that disclose recent price information for the penny stock and inf ormation of the limited market for penny stocks. These requirements adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock. Some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may deter third parties from seeking to acquire us. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our board of directors, including the following: · only the chairman of our board, our lead independent director, our chief executive officer, our president or a majority of our board of directors is authorized to call a special meeting of stockholders; · our certificate of incorporation authorizes undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval; and · advance notice procedures apply for stockholders to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring matters before a meeting of stockholders. 31 Delaware law and potential stockholder rights plans contain or may contain anti-takeover provisions that could deter takeover attempts that could be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may make the acquisition of the Company and the removal of incumbent officers and directors more difficult by prohibiting stockholders holding 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock from acquiring the Company, without our board of directors’ consent, for at least three years from the date they first hold 15% or more of the voting stock. In addition, our Stockholder Rights Plan has significant anti-takeover effects by causing substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our board of directors. Risks related to Government Regulation Our operations are subject to a number of regulations. Our operating activities in South Africa are governed under the state, commercial and labor regulations of that Country. Our products and services are subject to regulation by regulatory agencies in the countries where we operate We are subject to federal and state laws and government regulations concerning employee safety and health and environmental matters. The Department of Labor, Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency, and other federal and state agencies have the authority to establish regulations that may have an impact on our operations. Our business is subject to increasing regulation of content, consumer privacy, distribution and internet hosting and delivery in the key territories in which we conduct business. If we do not successfully respond to these regulations, our business may suffer. Legislation is continually being introduced that may affect both the content of our products and their distribution. For example, data and consumer protection laws in the United States and Europe impose various restrictions on our websites, which will be increasingly important to our business as we continue to market our products directly to end users. Those rules vary by territory although the internet recognizes no geographical boundaries. In the United States, for example, numerous federal and state laws have been introduced which attempt to restrict the content or distribution of advertising. Legislation has been adopted in several states, and proposed at the federal level, that prohibits the sale of certain advertisements to minors. If such legislation is adopted and enforced, it could harm our business by limi ting the campaigns we are able to offer to our customers or by limiting the size of the potential market for our campaigns. We may also be required to modify certain promotions or alter our marketing strategies to comply with new and possibly inconsistent regulations, which could be costly or delay the release of our campaigns. Any one or more of these factors could harm our business by limiting the products we are able to offer to our customers, by limiting the size of the potential market for our products, or by requiring costly additional differentiation between products for different territories to address varying regulations. Due to the global nature of the Web, it is possible that, although our transmissions originate in California, the governments of other states or foreign countries might attempt to regulate our transmissions or levy sales or other taxes relating to our activities. In addition, the growth and development of the market for internet commerce may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws, both in the United States and abroad, that may impose additional burdens on companies conducting business over the internet. The laws governing the internet remain largely unsettled, even in areas where there has been some legislative action. It may take years to determine how existing laws, including those governing intellectual property, privacy, libel and taxation, apply to the internet and internet advertising. Our bu siness, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected by the adoption or modification of industry standards, laws or regulations relating to the internet, or the application of existing laws to the internet or internet-based advertising. We could be subject to legal claims, government enforcement actions and damage to our reputation and held liable for our or our customers’ failure to comply with federal, state and foreign laws, regulations or policies governing consumer privacy, which could materially harm our business. Recent growing public concern regarding privacy and the collection, distribution and use of information about internet users has led to increased federal, state and foreign scrutiny and legislative and regulatory activity concerning data collection and use practices. The United States Congress currently has pending legislation regarding privacy and data security measures (e.g., S. 495, the “Personal Data Privacy and Security Act of 2007”). Any failure by us to comply with applicable federal, state and foreign laws and the requirements of regulatory authorities may result in, among other things, indemnification liability to our customers and the advertising agencies we work with, administrative enforcement actions and fines, class action lawsuits, cease and desist orders, and civil and criminal liability. Recently, class action lawsuits have been filed alleging violations of privacy laws by ISPs. The European Union’s directive addressing data privacy limits our ability to collect and use information regarding internet users. These restrictions may limit our ability to target advertising in most European countries. Our failure to comply with these or other federal, state or foreign laws could result in liability and materially harm our business. In addition to government activity, privacy advocacy groups and the technology and direct marketing industries are considering various new, additional or different self-regulatory standards. This focus, and any legislation, regulations or standards promulgated, may impact us adversely. Governments, trade associations and industry self-regulatory groups may enact more burdensome laws, regulations and guidelines, including consumer privacy laws, affecting our customers and us. Since many of the proposed laws or regulations are just being developed, and a consensus on privacy and data usage has not been reached, we cannot yet determine the impact these proposed laws or regulations might have on our business. However, if the gathering of profiling information were to be curtailed, internet advertising would be less effe ctive, which would reduce demand for internet advertising and harm our business. 32 Third parties may bring class action lawsuits against us relating to internet privacy and data collection. We disclose our information collection and dissemination policies, and we may be subject to claims if we act or are perceived to act inconsistently with these published policies. Any claims or inquiries could be costly and divert management’s attention, and the outcome of such claims could harm our reputation and our business. Our Wireless Carrier and Brand Owner customers, as well as members of our publishing network are also subject to various federal and state laws concerning the collection and use of information regarding individuals. These laws include the Children’s Internet Privacy Protection Act, the Federal Drivers Privacy Protection Act of 1994, the privacy provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Federal CAN-SPAM Act of 2003, as well as other laws that govern the collection and use of consumer credit information. We cannot ensure that our customers are currently in compliance, or will remain in compliance, with these laws and their own privacy policies. We may be held liable if our customers use our technologies in a manner that is not in compliance with these laws or their own stated privacy policies. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. As a smaller reporting company we are not required to provide this information. 