Item 1A: Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below as well as other information provided to you in this annual report, including information in the section of this document entitled “Forward-Looking Statements.” The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected, the value of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to our Business We are a development stage company. We are an early development stage biotechnology company with a history of losses and can provide no assurance as to future operating results. As a result of losses which will continue throughout our development stage, we may exhaust our financial resources and be unable to complete the development of our production. Our deficit will continue to grow during our drug development period. We have sustained losses from operations in each fiscal year since our inception, and we expect losses to continue for the indefinite future, due to the substantial investment in research and development. As of October 31, 2011 and October 31, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of $35,531,740 and $27,416,000, respectively and shareholders’ deficiency of $12,279,713 and $14,802,631, respectively. We expect to spend substantial additional sums on the continued administration and research and development of proprietary products and technologies with no certainty that our immunotherapies will become commercially viable or profitable as a result of these expenditures. As a result of our current lack of financial liquidity and negative stockholders equity, our auditors have expressed substantial concern about our ability to continue as a “going concern” . Our limited capital resources and operations to date have been funded primarily with the proceeds from public and private equity and debt financings, NOL and Research tax credits and income earned on investments and grants. Based on our currently available cash, we do not have adequate cash on hand to cover our anticipated expenses for the next 12 months. If we fail to raise a significant amount of capital, we may need to significantly curtail operations, cease operations or seek federal bankruptcy protection in the near future. These conditions have caused our auditors to raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Consequently, the audit report prepared by our independent public accounting firm relating to our financial statements for the year ended October 31, 2011 included a going concern explanatory paragraph. There can be no assurance that we will receive funding from Optimus in connection with the Series B preferred equity financing and if the average closing sale price of our common stock on each tranche notice date is less than $0.15 per share, we may not be able to require Optimus to purchase the entire $7.5 million of Series B preferred stock issuable under the Series B purchase agreement, as amended. On July 19, 2010, we entered into a Series B preferred stock purchase agreement, which we refer to as the Series B purchase agreement, with Optimus Capital Partners, LLC, which we refer to as Optimus, which was subsequently amended on April 4, 2011. Pursuant to the Series B purchase agreement, Optimus remains obligated to purchase $2.84 million of our non-convertible, redeemable Series B preferred stock, which we refer to as our Series B preferred stock, at a price of $10,000 per share from time to time, subject to our ability to effect and maintain an effective registration statement for the remaining 25,610,038 shares underlying the warrants issued to an affiliate of Optimus in connection with the transaction. As of January 9, 2012, Optimus had purchased an aggregate of 466 shares of Series B preferred stock and remains obligated, from time to time until July 19, 2013, to purchase up to an additional 284 shares of Series B preferred stock, for an aggregate purchase price of $2,840,000, upon notice from us to Optimus, if certain conditions set forth in the Series B purchase agreement, as amended, are satisfied, including among other things that: (i) we must be in compliance with our SEC reporting obligations, (ii) our common stock must be quoted on an eligible trading market, (iii) a material adverse effect relating to, among other things, our results of operations, assets, business or financial condition must not have occurred since July 19, 2010, other than losses incurred in the ordinary course of business, (iv) we must not be in default under any material agreement, (v) Optimus and its affiliates must not own more than 9.99% of our outstanding common stock, and (vi) we must comply with certain other requirements set forth in the Series B purchase agreement, as amended. If we fail to comply with any of these requirements, Optimus will not be obligated to purchase our Series B preferred stock and we will not receive any funding from Optimus. Moreover, if we exercise our option to require Optimus to purchase our Series B preferred stock, and our common stock has a closing price of less than $0.15 per share on the trading day immediately preceding our delivery of the exercise notice, we may trigger at closing certain anti-dilution protection provisions in certain outstanding warrants that would result in an adjustment to the number and price of certain outstanding warrants. In connection with our Series B preferred equity financing, we originally issued to an affiliate of Optimus a three-year warrant to purchase up to 40,500,000 shares of our common stock, at an initial exercise price of $0.25 per share, of which no shares of our common stock remain available to purchase. In connection with the amendment to the Series B purchase agreement, we subsequently issued to an affiliate of Optimus a three-year warrant to purchase up to an additional 25,560,000 shares of our common stock, at an initial exercise price of $0.15 per share. The warrants provide that on each tranche notice date under the Series B purchase agreement, as amended, (i) that portion of the warrants, in the aggregate, equal to 135% of the tranche amount will vest and become exercisable (and such vested portion may be exercised at any time during the exercise period on or after such tranche notice date) and (ii) the exercise price will be adjusted to the closing sale price of a share of our common stock on such tranche notice date. We are not permitted to deliver a tranche notice under the Series B purchase agreement, as amended, and require Optimus to purchase shares of Series B preferred stock if the number of registered shares underlying the warrant issued to the affiliate of Optimus is insufficient to cover the portion of the warrant that will vest and become exercisable in connection with such tranche notice. If the average closing sale price of our common stock on each tranche notice date is less than $0.15 per share, we may not be able to require Optimus to purchase the remaining $2.84 million of Series B preferred stock issuable under the Series B purchase agreement, as amended, without issuing additional warrant shares. We cannot assure you that we will be able to timely effect and maintain a registration statement for the remaining 25,560,000 warrant shares (or any additional warrant shares that may be necessary) so as to permit us to require Optimus to purchase the remaining $2,840,000 of Series B preferred stock under the Series B purchase agreement, as amended. Pursuant to the terms of the note purchase agreements we entered into in May 2011, October 2011 and Decenber 2011, we are not permitted to issue any securities in any Optimus transaction except to the extent the net proceeds of such issuance are used to pay the redemption price of the convertible promissory notes issued in the May 2011 offering, October 2011 offering and December 2011 offering, so long as such convertible promissory notes remain outstanding. Since May 2011, we have not sold any additional shares of preferred stock to Optimus. 14 Our business will require substantial additional investment that we have not yet secured, and our failure to raise capital and/or pursue partnering opportunities will materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We expect to continue to spend substantial amounts on research and development, including conducting clinical trials for our immunotherapies. However, we will not have sufficient resources to develop fully any new products or technologies unless we are able to raise substantial additional financing on acceptable terms, secure funds from new partners or consummate a preferred equity financing under the Series B purchase agreement, as amended. We cannot be assured that financing will be available at all. Our failure to raise a significant amount of capital in the near future, will materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, and we may need to significantly curtail operations, cease operations or seek federal bankruptcy protection in the near future. Any additional investments or resources required would be approached, to the extent appropriate in the circumstances, in an incremental fashion to attempt to cause minimal disruption or dilution. Any additional capital raised through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities will result in dilution to our existing stockholders. No assurances can be given, however, that we will be able to achieve these goals or that we will be able to continue as a going concern. We have significant indebtedness which may restrict our business and operations, adversely affect our cash flow and restrict our future access to sufficient funding to finance desired growth. As of January 9, 2012, our total outstanding indebtedness was approximately $7.7 million, which included the face value of all our outstanding junior bridge notes in the amount of approximately $0.6 million, a note outstanding to our chief executive officer in the amount of approximately $0.3 million, debt acquired in late April and early May 2011 with a remaining aggregate principal amount of approximately $4.2 million, debt acquired in late October 2011 with a remaining aggregate principal amount of approximately $1.4 million and debt acquired in early January 2012 in the aggregate principal amount of approximately $1.2 million.. Approximately $4.0 million of the aggregate $7.7 million is due on May 12, 2012, approximately $1.4 million of the aggregate $7.7 million is due on October 31, 2012 and approximately $1.2 million of the aggregate $7.7 million is due on January 9, 2013. Maturity dates for the remaining $1.1 million range between October 2011 and on or about September 30, 2014. Certain of our indebtedness contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to issue certain types of indebtedness, which may prevent us from obtaining additional indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We dedicate a substantial portion of our cash to pay interest and principal on our debt. If we are not able to service our debt, we would need to refinance all or part of that debt, sell assets, borrow more money or sell securities, which we may not be able to do on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, our failure to timely repay (or extend) amounts due and owing under our outstanding junior bridge notes issued in October 2009 may trigger the anti-dilution protection provisions in substantially all of our warrants (other than the warrants issued to the affiliate of Optimus and to certain bridge note holders), in which case holders of our common stock will experience significant additional dilution. The terms of our notes include customary events of default and covenants that restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness. These restrictions and covenants may prevent us from engaging in transactions that might otherwise be considered beneficial to us. A breach of the provisions of our indebtedness could result in an event of default under our outstanding notes. If an event of default occurs under our notes (after any applicable notice and cure periods), the holders would be entitled to accelerate the repayment of amounts outstanding, plus accrued and unpaid interest. In the event of a default under our senior indebtedness, the holders could also foreclose against the assets securing such obligations. In the event of a foreclosure on all or substantially all of our assets, we may not be able to continue to operate as a going concern. Our limited operating history does not afford investors a sufficient history on which to base an investment decision. We commenced our Lm -LLO based immunotherapy development business in February 2002 and have existed as a development stage company since such time. Prior thereto we conducted no business. Accordingly, we have a limited operating history. Investors must consider the risks and difficulties we have encountered in the rapidly evolving vaccine and therapeutic biopharmaceutical industry. Such risks include the following: · competition from companies that have substantially greater assets and financial resources than we have; 15 · need for acceptance of our immunotherapies; · ability to anticipate and adapt to a competitive market and rapid technological developments; · amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure; · need to rely on multiple levels of complex financing agreements with outside funding due to the length of drug development cycles and governmental approved protocols associated with the pharmaceutical industry; and · dependence upon key personnel including key independent consultants and advisors. We cannot be certain that our strategy will be successful or that we will successfully address these risks. In the event that we do not successfully address these risks, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may be required to reduce our staff, discontinue certain research or development programs of our future products and cease to operate. We can provide no assurance of the successful and timely development of new products. Our immunotherapies are at various stages of research and development. Further development and extensive testing will be required to determine their technical feasibility and commercial viability. Our success will depend on our ability to achieve scientific and technological advances and to translate such advances into licensable, FDA-approvable, commercially competitive products on a timely basis. Immunotherapies and vaccines that we may develop are not likely to be commercially available until five to ten or more years. The proposed development schedules for our immunotherapies may be affected by a variety of factors, including technological difficulties, clinical trial failures, regulatory hurdles, competitive products, intellectual property challenges and/or changes in governmental regulation, many of which will not be within our control. Any delay in the development, introduction or marketing of our products could result either in such products being marketed at a time when their cost and performance characteristics would not be competitive in the marketplace or in the shortening of their commercial lives. In light of the long-term nature of our projects, the unproven technology involved and the other factors described elsewhere in “Risk Factors,” there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully complete the development or marketing of any new products. Our research and development expenses are subject to uncertainty. Factors affecting our research and development expenses include, but are not limited to: · competition from companies that have substantially greater assets and financial resources than we have; · need for acceptance of our immunotherapies; · ability to anticipate and adapt to a competitive market and rapid technological developments; · amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure; · need to rely on multiple levels of outside funding due to the length of drug development cycles and governmental approved protocols associated with the pharmaceutical industry; and · dependence upon key personnel including key independent consultants and advisors. We are subject to numerous risks inherent in conducting clinical trials. We outsource the management of our clinical trials to third parties. Agreements with clinical investigators and medical institutions for clinical testing and with other third parties for data management services, place substantial responsibilities on these parties which, if unmet, could result in delays in, or termination of, our clinical trials. For example, if any of our clinical trial sites fail to comply with FDA-approved good clinical practices, we may be unable to use the data gathered at those sites. If these clinical investigators, medical institutions or other third parties do not carry out their contractual duties or obligations or fail to meet expected deadlines, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to their failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or for other reasons, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated, and we may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize agents such as ADXS-HPV. We are not certain that we will successfully recruit enough patients to complete our clinical trials nor that we will reach our primary endpoints. Delays in recruitment, lack of clinical benefit or unacceptable side effects would delay or prevent the initiation of the Phase 3 trials of ADXS-HPV. 16 We or our regulators may suspend or terminate our clinical trials for a number of reasons. We may voluntarily suspend or terminate our clinical trials if at any time we believe they present an unacceptable risk to the patients enrolled in our clinical trials or do not demonstrate clinical benefit. In addition, regulatory agencies may order the temporary or permanent discontinuation of our clinical trials at any time if they believe that the clinical trials are not being conducted in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements or that they present an unacceptable safety risk to the patients enrolled in our clinical trials. Our clinical trial operations are subject to regulatory inspections at any time. If regulatory inspectors conclude that we or our clinical trial sites are not in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements for conducting clinical trials, we may receive reports of observations or warning letters detailing deficiencies, and we will be required to implement corrective actions. If regulatory agencies deem our responses to be inadequate, or are dissatisfied with the corrective actions we or our clinical trial sites have implemented, our clinical trials may be temporarily or permanently discontinued, we may be fined, we or our investigators may be precluded from conducting any ongoing or any future clinical trials, the government may refuse to approve our marketing applications or allow us to manufacture or market our products, and we may be criminally prosecuted. The successful development of biopharmaceuticals is highly uncertain. Successful development of biopharmaceuticals is highly uncertain and is dependent on numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. Immunotherapies that appear promising in the early phases of development may fail to reach the market for several reasons including: · Preclinical study results that may show the immunotherapy to be less effective than desired (e.g., the study failed to meet its primary objectives) or to have harmful or problematic side effects; · Clinical study results that may show the immunotherapy to be less effective than expected (e.g., the study failed to meet its primary endpoint) or to have unacceptable side effects; · Failure to receive the necessary regulatory approvals or a delay in receiving such approvals. Among other things, such delays may be caused by slow enrollment in clinical studies, length of time to achieve study endpoints, additional time requirements for data analysis, or Biologics License Application preparation, discussions with the FDA, an FDA request for additional preclinical or clinical data, or unexpected safety or manufacturing issues; · Manufacturing costs, formulation issues, pricing or reimbursement issues, or other factors that make the immunotherapy uneconomical; and · The proprietary rights of others and their competing products and technologies that may prevent the immunotherapy from being commercialized. Success in preclinical and early clinical studies does not ensure that large-scale clinical studies will be successful. Clinical results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals. The length of time necessary to complete clinical studies and to submit an application for marketing approval for a final decision by a regulatory authority varies significantly from one immunotherapy to the next, and may be difficult to predict. We must comply with significant government regulations. The research and development, manufacture and marketing of human therapeutic and diagnostic products are subject to regulation, primarily by the FDA in the U.S. and by comparable authorities in other countries. These national agencies and other federal, state, local and foreign entities regulate, among other things, research and development activities (including testing in animals and in humans) and the testing, manufacturing, handling, labeling, storage, record keeping, approval, advertising and promotion of the products that we are developing. Noncompliance with applicable requirements can result in various adverse consequences, including delay in approving or refusal to approve product licenses or other applications, suspension or termination of clinical investigations, revocation of approvals previously granted, fines, criminal prosecution, recall or seizure of products, injunctions against shipping products and total or partial suspension of production and/or refusal to allow a company to enter into governmental supply contracts. The process of obtaining requisite FDA approval has historically been costly and time-consuming. Current FDA requirements for a new human biological product to be marketed in the U.S. include: (1) the successful conclusion of preclinical laboratory and animal tests, if appropriate, to gain preliminary information on the product’s safety; (2) filing with the FDA of an Investigational New Drug Application, which we refer to as an IND, to conduct human clinical trials for drugs or biologics; (3) the successful completion of adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the investigational new drug for its recommended use; and (4) filing by a company and acceptance and approval by the FDA of a Biologic License Application, which we refer to as a BLA, for a biological investigational new drug, to allow commercial distribution of a biologic product. A delay in one or more of the procedural steps outlined above could be harmful to us in terms of getting our immunotherapies through clinical testing and to market. 17 We can provide no assurance that our investigational new drugs will obtain regulatory approval or that the results of clinical studies will be favorable. In February 2006, we received permission from the appropriate governmental/regulatory agencies in Israel, Mexico and Serbia to conduct a Phase 1 clinical study of ADXS-HPV, our first Lm -LLO based immunotherapy targeting HPV16-E7 to determine safety and the maximum tolerated dose in patients with recurrent or refractory cervical cancer. The study was completed in the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2008. The next step was to test ADXS-HPV in the U.S. which required the filing of an IND with the FDA. The filing included the required preclinical animal pharmacology and toxicology studies, manufacturing information, proposed clinical protocol and investigator information as well as the data generated from the Phase 1 study. Unlike the Phase 2 study patient population of late stage cervical cancer patients, the clinical protocol submitted in the IND proposed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of ADXS-HPV in healthy young patients with CIN 2/3, the pre-neoplastic stage of cervical cancer. On January 6, 2009 we received permission from the FDA to conduct the Phase 2 clinical trial and the trial was initiated in March 2010. However, even though we were allowed to initiate this trial, as with any investigational new drug under an IND, we are always at risk of a clinical hold. There can be delays in obtaining FDA or any other necessary regulatory approvals of any investigational new drug and failure to receive such approvals would have an adverse effect on the investigational new drug’s potential commercial success and on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, it is possible that an approved product may be found to be ineffective or unsafe due to conditions or facts which arise after development has been completed and regulatory approvals have been obtained. In this event, we may be required to withdraw such product from the market. To the extent that our success will depend on any regulatory approvals from governmental authorities outside of the U.S. that perform roles similar to that of the FDA, uncertainties similar to those stated above will also exist. We rely upon patents to protect our technology. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights and we may be liable for infringing the intellectual property rights of others. Our ability to compete effectively will depend on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies, including the Lm -LLO based immunotherapy platform technology, and the proprietary technology of others with whom we have entered into collaboration and licensing agreements. As of January 9, 2012 we have 39 patents that have been issued and licenses for 39 patent applications that are pending (including the 23 patent applications obtained in May 2010 and 2 patent applications obtained in November 2011). We have licensed most of these patents and applications from Penn and we have obtained the rights to all future patent applications originating in the laboratories of Dr. Yvonne Paterson and Dr. Fred Frankel. Further, we rely on a combination of trade secrets and nondisclosure, and other contractual agreements and technical measures to protect our rights in the technology. We depend upon confidentiality agreements with our officers, employees, consultants, and subcontractors to maintain the proprietary nature of the technology. These measures may not afford us sufficient or complete protection, and others may independently develop technology similar to ours, otherwise avoid the confidentiality agreements, or produce patents that would materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. Such competitive events, technologies and patents may limit our ability to raise funds, prevent other companies from collaborating with us, and in certain cases prevent us from further developing our technology due to third party patent blocking rights. We are aware of Aduro Biotech, a company comprised in part of former Cerus and Anza (two former biotech companies) employees that is investigating Listeria vaccines. We believe that through our exclusive worldwide license with Penn we have the earliest known and dominant patent positions in the U.S. and rest of world for the use of recombinant Listeria monocytogenes expressing fusion proteins or tumor antigens as an immunotherapy for the treatment of infectious diseases and cancer. We successfully defended our intellectual property by contesting a challenge made by Anza to our patent position in Europe on a claim not available in the U.S. The European Patent Office, which we refer to as the EPO, Board of Appeals in Munich, Germany has ruled in favor of The Trustees of Penn and its exclusive licensee Advaxis and reversed a patent ruling that revoked a technology patent that had resulted from an opposition filed by Anza. The ruling of the EPO Board of Appeals is final and cannot be appealed. The granted claims, the subject matter of which was discovered by Dr. Yvonne Paterson, scientific founder of Advaxis, are directed to the method of preparation and composition of matter of recombinant bacteria expressing tumor antigens for treatment of patients with cancer. Based on searches of publicly available databases, we do not believe that Anza, Aduro or any other third party owns any published Listeria patents or has any issued patent claims that might materially and adversely affect our ability to operate our business as currently contemplated in the field of recombinant Listeria monocytogenes. Additionally, our proprietary position is that the issued patents and licenses for pending applications restricts anyone from using plasmid based Listeria constructs, or those that are bioengineered to deliver antigens fused to LLO, ActA, or fragments of LLO or ActA. We are dependent upon our license agreement with Penn; if we fail to make payments due and owing to Penn under our license agreement, our business will be materially and adversely affected. Pursuant to the terms of our Second and Third Amendment Agreements with Penn, as amended, we have acquired exclusive worldwide licenses for an additional 25 patent applications related to our proprietary Listeria vaccine technology. As of January 9, 2012, we owed Penn approximately $249,000 in patent expenses. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to make all payments due and owing thereunder, that such licenses will not be terminated or expire during critical periods, that we will be able to obtain licenses for other rights which may be important to us, or, if obtained, that such licenses will be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. 18 If we are unable to maintain and/or obtain licenses, we may have to develop alternatives to avoid infringing on the patents of others, potentially causing increased costs and delays in drug development and introduction or precluding the development, manufacture, or sale of planned products. Some of our licenses provide for limited periods of exclusivity that require minimum license fees and payments and/or may be extended only with the consent of the licensor. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to meet these minimum license fees in the future or that these third parties will grant extensions on any or all such licenses. This same restriction may be contained in licenses obtained in the future. Additionally, we can provide no assurance that the patents underlying any licenses will be valid and enforceable. To the extent any products developed by us are based on licensed technology, royalty payments on the licenses will reduce our gross profit from such product sales and may render the sales of such products uneconomical. We have no manufacturing, sales, marketing or distribution capability and we must rely upon third parties for such. We do not intend to create facilities to manufacture our products and therefore are dependent upon third parties to do so. We currently have agreements with Recipharm Cobra Biologics Limited, which we refer to as Recipharm Cobra, and Vibalogics GmbH for production of our immunotherapies for research and development and testing purposes. Our reliance on third parties for the manufacture of our drug substance, investigational new drugs and approved products creates a dependency that could severely disrupt our research and development, our clinical testing, and ultimately our sales and marketing efforts if the source of such supply proves to be unreliable or unavailable. If the contracted manufacturing source is unreliable or unavailable, we may not be able to manufacture clinical drug supplies of our immunotherapies, and our preclinical and clinical testing programs may not be able to move forward and our entire business plan could fail. If we are unable to establish or manage strategic collaborations in the future, our revenue and drug development may be limited. Our strategy includes eventual substantial reliance upon strategic collaborations for marketing and commercialization of ADXS-HPV, and we may rely even more on strategic collaborations for research, development, marketing and commercialization of our other immunotherapies. To date, we have not entered into any strategic collaborations with third parties capable of providing these services although we have been heavily reliant upon third party outsourcing for our clinical trials execution and production of drug supplies for use in clinical trials. In addition, we have not yet licensed, marketed or sold any of our immunotherapies or entered into successful collaborations for these services in order to ultimately commercialize our immunotherapies. Establishing strategic collaborations is difficult and time-consuming. Our discussion with potential collaborators may not lead to the establishment of collaborations on favorable terms, if at all. For example, potential collaborators may reject collaborations based upon their assessment of our financial, clinical, regulatory or intellectual property position. If we successfully establish new collaborations, these relationships may never result in the successful development or commercialization of our immunotherapies or the generation of sales revenue. To the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other collaborative arrangements, our product revenues are likely to be lower than if we directly marketed and sold any products that we may develop. Management of our relationships with our collaborators will require: · significant time and effort from our management team; · coordination of our research and development programs with the research and development priorities of our collaborators; and · effective allocation of our resources to multiple projects. If we continue to enter into research and development collaborations at the early phases of drug development, our success will in part depend on the performance of our corporate collaborators. We will not directly control the amount or timing of resources devoted by our corporate collaborators to activities related to our immunotherapies. Our corporate collaborators may not commit sufficient resources to our research and development programs or the commercialization, marketing or distribution of our immunotherapies. If any corporate collaborator fails to commit sufficient resources, our preclinical or clinical development programs related to this collaboration could be delayed or terminated. Also, our collaborators may pursue existing or other development-stage products or alternative technologies in preference to those being developed in collaboration with us. Finally, if we fail to make required milestone or royalty payments to our collaborators or to observe other obligations in our agreements with them, our collaborators may have the right to terminate those agreements. We may incur substantial liabilities from any product liability claims if our insurance coverage for those claims is inadequate. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to the testing of our immunotherapies in human clinical trials, and will face an even greater risk if the approved products are sold commercially. An individual may bring a liability claim against us if one of the immunotherapies causes, or merely appears to have caused, an injury. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against the product liability claim, we will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: · decreased demand for our immunotherapies; 19 · damage to our reputation; · withdrawal of clinical trial participants; · costs of related litigation; · substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants; · loss of revenues; · the inability to commercialize immunotherapies; and · increased difficulty in raising required additional funds in the private and public capital markets. We have insurance coverage on our clinical trials for each clinical trial site. We do not have product liability insurance because we do not have products on the market. We currently are in the process of obtaining insurance coverage and to expand such coverage to include the sale of commercial products if marketing approval is obtained for any of our immunotherapies. However, insurance coverage is increasingly expensive and we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost and we may not be able to obtain insurance coverage that will be adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise. We may incur significant costs complying with environmental laws and regulations. We and our contracted third parties will use hazardous materials, including chemicals and biological agents and compounds that could be dangerous to human health and safety or the environment. As appropriate, we will store these materials and wastes resulting from their use at our or our outsourced laboratory facility pending their ultimate use or disposal. We will contract with a third party to properly dispose of these materials and wastes. We will be subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, generation, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and wastes. We may also incur significant costs complying with environmental laws and regulations adopted in the future. If we use biological and hazardous materials in a manner that causes injury, we may be liable for damages. Our research and development and manufacturing activities will involve the use of biological and hazardous materials. Although we believe our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials will comply with federal, state and local laws and regulations, we cannot entirely eliminate the risk of accidental injury or contamination from the use, storage, handling or disposal of these materials. We do not carry specific biological or hazardous waste insurance coverage, workers compensation or property and casualty and general liability insurance policies which include coverage for damages and fines arising from biological or hazardous waste exposure or contamination. Accordingly, in the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for damages or penalized with fines in an amount exceeding our resources, and our clinical trials or regulatory approvals could be suspended or terminated. We need to attract and retain highly skilled personnel; we may be unable to effectively manage growth with our limited resources. As of January 9, 2012, we had 12 employees, all of which were full time employees. We do not intend to significantly expand our operations and staff unless we get adequate financing. If we receive such funding then our new employees may include key managerial, technical, financial, research and development and operations personnel who will not have been fully integrated into our operations. We will be required to expand our operational and financial systems significantly and to expand, train and manage our work force in order to manage the expansion of our operations. Our failure to fully integrate any new employees into our operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We operate under an agreement with AlphaStaff, a professional employment organization that provides us with payroll and human resources services. Our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel is critical to our operations and expansion. We face competition for these types of personnel from other technology companies and more established organizations, many of which have significantly larger operations and greater financial, technical, human and other resources than we have. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel on a timely basis, on competitive terms, or at all. If we are not successful in attracting and retaining these personnel, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. In such circumstances we may be unable to conduct certain research and development programs, unable to adequately manage our clinical trials and other products, and unable to adequately address our management needs. In addition, from time to time, we are unable to make payroll due to our lack of cash. 20 We depend upon our senior management and key consultants and their loss or unavailability could put us at a competitive disadvantage. We depend upon the efforts and abilities of our senior executives, as well as the services of several key consultants, including Yvonne Paterson, Ph.D. The loss or unavailability of the services of any of these individuals for any significant period of time could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We have not obtained, do not own, nor are we the beneficiary of, key-person life insurance. Risks Related to the Biotechnology / Biopharmaceutical Industry The biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industries are characterized by rapid technological developments and a high degree of competition. We may be unable to compete with more substantial enterprises. The biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industries are characterized by rapid technological developments and a high degree of competition. Competition in the biopharmaceutical industry is based significantly on scientific and technological factors. These factors include the availability of patent and other protection for technology and products, the ability to commercialize technological developments and the ability to obtain governmental approval for testing, manufacturing and marketing. We compete with specialized biopharmaceutical firms in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere, as well as a growing number of large pharmaceutical companies that are applying biotechnology to their operations. Many biopharmaceutical companies have focused their development efforts in the human therapeutics area, including cancer. Many major pharmaceutical companies have developed or acquired internal biotechnology capabilities or made commercial arrangements with other biopharmaceutical companies. These companies, as well as academic institutions and governmental agencies and private research organizations, also compete with us in recruiting and retaining highly qualified scientific personnel and consultants. Our ability to compete successfully with other companies in the pharmaceutical field will also depend to a considerable degree on the continuing availability of capital to us. We are aware of certain investigational new drugs under development or approved products by competitors that are used for the prevention, diagnosis, or treatment of certain diseases we have targeted for drug development. Various companies are developing biopharmaceutical products that have the potential to directly compete with our immunotherapies even though their approach to may be different. The biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industries are highly competitive, and this competition comes from both biotechnology firms and from major pharmaceutical companies, including companies like: Aduro Biotech, Agenus Inc., Bionovo Inc., Bristol-Myers Squibb, Celgene Corporation, Celldex Therapeutics, Dendreon Corporation, Inovio Pharmaceutical Inc., Oncolytics Biotech Inc., Oncothyreon Inc., et al. We believe that our immunotherapies under development and in clinical trials will address unmet medical needs in the treatment of cancer. Our competition will be determined in part by the potential indications for which drugs are developed and ultimately approved by regulatory authorities. Additionally, the timing of market introduction of some of our potential products or of competitors’ products may be an important competitive factor. Accordingly, the relative speed with which we can develop immunotherapies, complete preclinical testing, clinical trials and approval processes and supply commercial quantities to market is expected to be important competitive factors. We expect that competition among products approved for sale will be based on various factors, including product efficacy, safety, reliability, availability, price and patent position. Risks Related to the Securities Markets and Investments in our Common Stock The price of our common stock may be volatile. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially. The price of our common stock that will prevail in the market after the sale of the shares of common stock by a selling stockholder may be higher or lower than the price you have paid, depending on many factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be related to our operating performance. These fluctuations could cause you to lose part or all of your investment in our common stock. Those factors that could cause fluctuations include, but are not limited to, the following: · price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; · fluctuations in stock market prices and trading volumes of similar companies; · actual or anticipated changes in our net loss or fluctuations in our operating results or in the expectations of securities analysts; · the issuance of new equity securities pursuant to a future offering, including issuances of preferred stock pursuant to the Series B purchase agreement, as amended; · general economic conditions and trends; 21 · major catastrophic events; · sales of large blocks of our stock; · significant dilution caused by the anti-dilutive clauses in our financial agreements; · departures of key personnel; · changes in the regulatory status of our immunotherapies, including results of our clinical trials; · events affecting Penn or any future collaborators; · announcements of new products or technologies, commercial relationships or other events by us or our competitors; · regulatory developments in the U.S. and other countries; · failure of our common stock to be listed or quoted on the Nasdaq Stock Market, NYSE Amex Equities or other national market system; · changes in accounting principles; and · discussion of us or our stock price by the financial and scientific press and in online investor communities. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. Due to the potential volatility of our stock price, we may therefore be the target of securities litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources from our business. You may have difficulty selling our shares because they are deemed “penny stocks.” Our common stock is deemed to be “penny stock” as that term is defined in Rule 3a51-1, promulgated under the Exchange Act. Penny stocks are, generally, stocks: · with a price of less than $5.00 per share; · that are neither traded on a “recognized” national exchange nor listed on an automated quotation system sponsored by a registered national securities association meeting certain minimum initial listing standards; and · of issuers with net tangible assets less than $2.0 million (if the issuer has been in continuous operation for at least three years) or $5.0 million (if in continuous operation for less than three years), or with average revenue of less than $6.0 million for the last three years. Section 15(g) of the Exchange Act and Rule 15g-2 promulgated thereunder require broker-dealers dealing in penny stocks to provide potential investors with a document disclosing the risks of penny stocks and to obtain a manually signed and dated written receipt of the document before effecting any transaction in a “penny stock” for the investor’s account. We urge potential investors to obtain and read this disclosure carefully before purchasing any shares that are deemed to be “penny stock.” Rule 15g-9 promulgated under the Exchange Act requires broker-dealers in penny stocks to approve the account of any investor for transactions in such stocks before selling any “penny stock” to that investor. This procedure requires the broker-dealer to: · obtain from the investor information about his or her financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives; · reasonably determine, based on that information, that transactions in penny stocks are suitable for the investor and that the investor has enough knowledge and experience to be able to evaluate the risks of “penny stock” transactions; · provide the investor with a written statement setting forth the basis on which the broker-dealer made his or her determination; and · receive a signed and dated copy of the statement from the investor, confirming that it accurately reflects the investor’s financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives. 22 Compliance with these requirements may make it harder for investors in our common stock to resell their shares to third parties. Accordingly, our common stock should only be purchased by investors, who understand that such investment is a long-term and illiquid investment, and are capable of and prepared to bear the risk of holding our common stock for an indefinite period of time. A limited public trading market may cause volatility in the price of our common stock. Our common stock began trading on the OTC Bulletin Board on July 28, 2005 and is quoted under the symbol ADXS.OB. The quotation of our common stock on the OTC Bulletin Board does not assure that a meaningful, consistent and liquid trading market currently exists, and in recent years such market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices of many smaller companies like us. Our common stock is thus subject to this volatility. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that such sales might occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock and our stock price may decline substantially in a short time and our stockholders could suffer losses or be unable to liquidate their holdings. Also there are large blocks of restricted stock that have met the holding requirements under Rule 144 that can be unrestricted and sold. Our stock is thinly traded due to the limited number of shares available for trading on the market thus causing large swings in price. There is no assurance of an established public trading market. A regular trading market for our common stock may not be sustained in the future. The effect on the OTC Bulletin Board of these rule changes and other proposed changes cannot be determined at this time. The OTC Bulletin Board is an inter-dealer, over-the-counter market that provides significantly less liquidity than the Nasdaq Stock Market. Quotes for stocks included on the OTC Bulletin Board are not listed in the financial sections of newspapers. As such, investors and potential investors may find it difficult to obtain accurate stock price quotations, and holders of our common stock may be unable to resell their securities at or near their original offering price or at any price. Market prices for our common stock will be influenced by a number of factors, including: · the issuance of new equity securities pursuant to a future offering, including issuances of preferred stock pursuant to the Series B purchase agreement, as amended; · changes in interest rates; · significant dilution caused by the anti-dilutive clauses in our financial agreements; · competitive developments, including announcements by competitors of new products or services or significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · variations in quarterly operating results; · change in financial estimates by securities analysts; · the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; · investor perceptions of our company and the technologies industries generally; and · general economic and other national conditions. We may not be able to achieve secondary trading of our stock in certain states because our common stock is not nationally traded. Because our common stock is not listed for trading on a national securities exchange, our common stock is subject to the securities laws of the various states and jurisdictions of the U.S. in addition to federal securities law. This regulation covers any primary offering we might attempt and all secondary trading by our stockholders. If we fail to take appropriate steps to register our common stock or qualify for exemptions for our common stock in certain states or jurisdictions of the U.S., the investors in those jurisdictions where we have not taken such steps may not be allowed to purchase our stock or those who presently hold our stock may not be able to resell their shares without substantial effort and expense. These restrictions and potential costs could be significant burdens on our stockholders. If we fail to remain current on our reporting requirements, we could be removed from the OTC Bulletin Board, which would limit the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and the ability of stockholders to sell their securities in the secondary market. Companies trading on the OTC Bulletin Board, such as us, must be reporting issuers under Section 12 of the Exchange Act, as amended, and must be current in their reports under Section 13, in order to maintain price quotation privileges on the OTC Bulletin Board. For our third quarter 2009 and fiscal year ended October 31, 2009, we were unable to file our respective quarterly report on Form 10-Q and annual report on Form 10-K in a timely manner, but we were able to make the filings and cure our compliance deficiencies with the OTC Bulletin Board within the grace period allowed by the OTC Bulletin Board. If we fail to remain current on our reporting requirements, we could be removed from the OTC Bulletin Board. As a result, the market liquidity for our securities could be severely adversely affected by limiting the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and the ability of stockholders to sell their securities in the secondary market. In addition, we may not be able to deliver a tranche notice to Optimus under the Series B purchase agreement. 23 Our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures have been ineffective in the past, and may be ineffective again in the future, and failure to improve them at such time could lead to errors in our financial statements that could require a restatement or untimely filings, which could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, and a decline in our stock price. Our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures have been ineffective in the past. We have taken steps to improve our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting, and as of October 31, 2011, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting were effective. However, there is no assurance that our disclosure controls and procedures will remain effective or that there will be no material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. Additionally, as a result of the historical material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and the historical ineffectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our stock. Our executive officers and directors can exert significant influence over us and may make decisions that do not always coincide with the interests of other stockholders. As of January 9, 2012, our officers and directors and their affiliates, in the aggregate, beneficially own approximately 12.4% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result, such persons, acting together, have the ability to substantially influence all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets, an increase in the number of shares authorized for issuance under our stock option plans, and to control our management and affairs. Accordingly, such concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our business, even if such a transaction would be beneficial to other stockholders. Sales of additional equity securities may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and your rights in us may be reduced. We expect to continue to incur drug development and selling, general and administrative costs, and to satisfy our funding requirements, we will need to sell additional equity securities, which may be subject to registration rights and warrants with anti-dilutive protective provisions. The sale or the proposed sale of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public markets may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our stock price may decline substantially. Our stockholders may experience substantial dilution and a reduction in the price that they are able to obtain upon sale of their shares. Also, new equity securities issued may have greater rights, preferences or privileges than our existing common stock. Additional authorized shares of common stock available for issuance may adversely affect the market. We are authorized to issue 500,000,000 shares of our common stock. As of January 9, 2012, we had 269,425,632 shares of our common stock issued and outstanding, excluding shares issuable upon exercise of our outstanding warrants, options and convertible promissory notes. As of January 9, 2012, we had outstanding options to purchase 44,857,424 shares of our common stock at a weighted average exercise price of approximately $0.16 per share and outstanding warrants to purchase 119,317,738 shares of our common stock (excluding Optimus warrants in the amount of 25,560,000), with exercise prices ranging from $0.15 to $0.29 per share. To the extent the shares of common stock are issued, options and warrants are exercised or convertible promissory notes are converted, holders of our common stock will experience dilution. In addition, in the event of any future financing of equity securities or securities convertible into or exchangeable for, common stock, holders of our common stock may experience dilution. Moreover, the above-mentioned warrants to purchase our common stock are subject to “full ratchet” anti-dilution protection upon certain equity issuances below $0.15 per share (as may be further adjusted). We have a limited number of authorized shares of common stock available for issuance, and if our stockholders do not approve an increase in the authorized number of shares of our common stock we may be unable to raise significant additional common equity capital beyond the recent December 2011 offering. As of January 9, 2012, following the recent December 2011 offering, we had 500,000,000 authorized shares of common stock, of which 486,728,991 shares of common stock were issued and outstanding on a fully diluted basis. Thus, we have a limited number of shares of common stock available for future issuance. The limited availability of shares of common stock may hinder our ability to raise capital through the issuance of common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for common stock, if the need should so arise. If we need to increase the number of our authorized shares of common stock, then under applicable Delaware law and the provisions of our certificate of incorporation, such an increase will require the approval of the holders of a majority of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock. No assurance can be provided that we would be able to obtain the requisite vote to increase the number of our authorized shares of common stock. A failure to increase our authorized share capital when needed would adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital and therefore could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity and prospects. 24 We are able to issue shares of preferred stock with rights superior to those of holders of our common stock. Such issuances can dilute the tangible net book value of shares of our common stock. Our Amended and Restated Certification of Incorporation provides for the authorization of 5,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock. Pursuant to our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, our board of directors is authorized to issue such “blank check” preferred stock with rights that are superior to the rights of stockholders of our common stock, at a purchase price then approved by our board of directors, which purchase price may be substantially lower than the market price of shares of our common stock, without stockholder approval. Such issuances can dilute the tangible net book value of shares of our common stock. We do not intend to pay cash dividends. We have not declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock, and we do not anticipate declaring or paying cash dividends for the foreseeable future. Any future determination as to the payment of cash dividends on our common stock will be at our board of directors’ discretion and will depend on our financial condition, operating results, capital requirements and other factors that our board of directors considers to be relevant. 25 