Item 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider each of the risks and uncertainties described in this section and all of the other information in this document before deciding to invest in our common stock. Any of the risk factors we describe below could severely harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The market price of our common stock could decline if any of these risks or uncertainties develops into actual events. You may lose all or part of the money you pay to buy our common stock. We depend heavily upon sources of human tissue, and any failure to obtain tissue from these sources in a timely manner will interfere with our ability to process and distribute allografts. The supply of human tissue has at times limited our growth, and may not be sufficient to meet our future needs. In addition, due to seasonal changes in mortality rates, some scarce tissues that we currently use for allografts are at times in particularly short supply. Other factors, some of which are unpredictable, such as negative publicity and regulatory actions in the industry in which we operate also could unexpectedly reduce the available supply of tissue. We rely on donor recovery groups for their human tissue supplies and we have relationships with over 20 tissue donor recovery agencies across the country. We also have relationships outside the United States. Donor recovery groups are part of relatively complex relationships. They provide support to donor families, are regulated by the FDA, and are often affiliated with hospitals, universities or organ procurement organizations. Our relationships with donor recovery groups, which are critical to our supply of tissue, could be affected by relationships recovery groups have with other organizations. Any negative impact arising from potential regulatory and disease transmission issues facing the industry, as well as the negative publicity that these issues could create, could adversely affect our ability to negotiate contracts with recovery groups. We cannot be sure that the supply of human tissue will continue to be available at current levels or will be sufficient to meet our needs. If we are not able to obtain tissue from current sources sufficient to meet our needs, we may not be able to locate additional replacement sources of tissue on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Any interruption of our business caused by the need to locate additional sources of tissue would significantly impact our revenues. We expect that our revenues from allografts would decline in proportion to any decline in tissue supply. If we fail to maintain existing strategic relationships or are unable to identify distributors of our implants, revenues may decrease. We currently derive a significant amount of our revenues through distributors such as Medtronic, Zimmer and Davol. In addition, our spine distributors provide nearly all of the instrumentation, surgeon training, distribution assistance and marketing materials for the lines of spinal allografts they distribute. Variations in the timing and volume of orders by Medtronic and Zimmer may have a material effect upon our revenues. If our relationships with Medtronic or Zimmer are terminated or reduced for any reason and we are unable to replace these relationships with other means of distribution, we would suffer a material decrease in revenues. We may need to obtain the assistance of additional distributors to market and distribute our new allografts and technologies, as well as to market and distribute our existing allografts and technologies to new markets or geographical areas. We may not be able to find additional distributors who will agree to and successfully market and distribute our allografts and technologies on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we are unable to establish additional distribution relationships on favorable terms, our revenues may decline. If third-party payors fail to provide appropriate levels of reimbursement for the use of our implants, revenues could be adversely affected. The impact of United States healthcare reform legislation on our business remains uncertain. In 2010 federal legislation to reform the United States healthcare system was enacted into law. The legislation is far-reaching and is intended to expand access to health insurance coverage, improve the quality and reduce the costs of healthcare over time. Its provisions become effective at various dates and there are many programs and requirements for which the details have not been determined. We expect the law will have a significant impact upon various aspects of our business operations. Among other things, the law imposes a 2.3 percent excise tax on Class I, II and III medical devices that applies to United States sales of a majority of our metal and synthetic medical device products. Other provisions of this legislation, including Medicare provisions aimed at improving quality and decreasing costs, comparative effectiveness research, an independent 13 Table of Contents payment advisory board, and pilot programs to evaluate alternative payment methodologies, could meaningfully change the way healthcare is designed and delivered. Further, we cannot predict what other healthcare programs and regulations will be ultimately implemented at the federal or state level or the effect of any future legislation or regulation in the United States. However, any change that lowers reimbursements for our implants or reduces medical procedure volumes could adversely affect our business and results of operations. If we fail to maintain the high processing standards that implants require or if we are unable to develop processing capacity as required, our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated. Implants require careful calibration and precise, high-quality processing. Achieving precision and quality control requires skill and diligence by our personnel. If we fail to achieve and maintain these high processing standards, including avoiding processing errors, and, depending on the nature of the complaint, design defects or component failures; we would be forced to recall, withdraw or suspend distribution of our implants; our implants and technologies could fail quality assurance and performance tests; production and deliveries of our implants could be delayed or cancelled and our processing costs could increase. Further, to be successful, we will need to manage our human tissue processing capacity related to tissue recovery and demand for our allografts. It may be difficult for us to match our processing capacity to demand due to problems related to the amount of suitable tissue, quality control and assurance, tissue availability, adequacy of control policies and procedures and lack of skilled personnel. If we are unable to process and produce our implants on a timely basis, at acceptable quality and costs, and in sufficient quantities, or if we experience unanticipated technological problems or delays in processing, it will reduce revenues and increase our cost per allograft processed. We operate in a highly regulated industry. An inability to meet current or future regulatory requirements in the U.S. or foreign jurisdictions, or any deficiencies with our manufacturing or quality systems and processes identified by regulatory agencies, could disrupt our business, subject us to regulatory action and costly litigation, damage our reputation for high quality production, cause a loss of confidence in the company and our implants and negatively impact our financial position and operating results. The FDA and several states have statutory authority to regulate allograft processing, including our BioCleanse® and TUTOPLAST® processes, and allograft-based materials. We must register our facilities, whether located in the United States or elsewhere, with the FDA as well as regulators outside the U.S., and our implants must be made in a manner consistent with current good tissue practices (“cGTP”), or similar standards in each territory in which we manufacture. In addition, the FDA and other agencies perform periodic audits to ensure that our facilities remain in compliance with all appropriate regulations, including primarily the quality system regulations and medical device reporting regulations. Following an inspection, an agency may issue a notice listing conditions that are believed to violate cGTP or other regulations (such as a FDA report on Form 483, Notice of Observations), or a warning letter for violations of “regulatory significance” that may result in enforcement action if not promptly and adequately corrected. For example, in June and July 2012, the FDA performed a cGTP inspection of our processing facility in Alachua, Florida to audit our compliance with cGTP requirements. The inspection was a directed inspection following termination of an employee. The inspection was not related to a specific implant. At the conclusion of the audit, the FDA inspectors issued a Form FD483, primarily related to environmental monitoring activities in certain areas of our Alachua facility. We provided timely and detailed responses to the FD483, including commitments and timelines for the remediation of the conditions cited by the FDA. In October 2012, we subsequently received a warning letter related to some of the FD483 inspectional findings in which the FDA raised certain remaining questions and concerns. We responded to the issues cited in the warning letter and submitted information to the FDA to address their concerns. In October 2013, we received a final close out letter from the FDA to formally resolve their concerns. The warning letter did not restrict our ability to process or distribute implants, nor did it require the withdrawal of any implants from the marketplace. However, the FDA could identify other deficiencies in future inspections of our facilities or those of our suppliers. Since 2009, the FDA has significantly increased its oversight of companies subject to its regulations, including medical device companies, by hiring new investigators and stepping up inspections of manufacturing facilities. In recent years, the FDA has also significantly increased the number of warning letters issued to companies. If the FDA were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any of our implants are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, the FDA could ban such implants, detain or seize adulterated or misbranded implants, order a recall, repair, replacement, or refund of such implants, refuse to grant pending premarket approval applications or require certificates of foreign governments for exports and/or require us to notify health professionals and others that the implants present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health. The FDA may also impose operating restrictions, enjoin and restrain certain violations of applicable law pertaining to medical devices and assess civil or 14 Table of Contents criminal penalties against our officers, employees or us. The FDA may also recommend prosecution to the Department of Justice. Any adverse regulatory action, depending on its magnitude, may restrict us from effectively marketing and selling our implants. Any inability to meet current or future regulatory requirements in the United States or foreign jurisdictions, or any deficiencies with our manufacturing or quality systems and processes identified by regulatory agencies could disrupt our business, subject us to regulatory action and costly litigation, damage our reputation for high quality production, cause a loss of confidence in the company and our implants and negatively impact our financial position and operating results. If any of our allografts fall under the FDA’s definitions of “more than minimally manipulated or indicated for non-homologous use,” we would be required to obtain medical device approval or clearance or biologics licenses, which could require clinical testing and could result in disapproval of our license applications and restricted distribution of any of our allografts which may become subject to pre-market approval. The FDA could require post-market testing and surveillance to monitor the effects of such allografts, could restrict the commercial applications of these allografts, and could conduct periodic inspections of our facilities and our suppliers. Delays encountered during the FDA approval process could shorten the patent protection period during which we have the exclusive right to commercialize such technologies or could allow others to come to market before us with similar technologies. cGTP covers all stages of allograft processing, from procurement of tissue to distribution of final allografts. These regulations increased regulatory scrutiny within the industry in which we operate and have led to increased enforcement action which affects the conduct of our business. In addition, these regulations have a significant effect upon recovery agencies which supply us with tissue and increase the cost of recovery activities. Any such increase would translate into increased costs, as we would expect to reimburse the recovery agencies based on their cost of recovery. In addition to the FDA, several state agencies regulate tissue banking. Regulations issued by Florida, New York, California and Maryland will be particularly relevant to our business. Most states do not currently have tissue banking regulations, but this status could change. It is possible that others may make allegations against us or against donor recovery groups or tissue banks, including those with which we have relationships, about non-compliance with applicable FDA regulations or other relevant statutes and regulations. Allegations like these could cause regulators or other authorities to take investigative or other action, or could cause negative publicity for our business and the industry in which we operate. Some of our implants contain tissue derived from animals, commonly referred to as xenografts. Xenograft implants are medical devices that are subject to pre-market approval or clearance by the FDA. We have received FDA clearance on several xenograft implants. However, we may not receive FDA approval or clearance to market new implants as we attempt to expand the quantity of xenograft implants available for distribution. The allograft industry is subject to additional local, state, federal and international government regulations and any increased regulations of our activities could significantly increase the cost of doing business, thereby reducing profitability. Some aspects of our business are subject to additional local, state, federal or international regulation. Changes in the laws or new interpretations of existing laws could negatively affect our business, revenues or prospects, and increase the costs associated with conducting our business. In particular, the procurement and transplantation of allograft tissue is subject to federal regulation under the National Organ Transplant Act (“NOTA”), a criminal statute that prohibits the purchase and sale of human organs, including bone and other tissue. NOTA permits the payment of reasonable fees associated with the transportation, processing, preservation, quality control and storage of human tissue. If NOTA were amended or interpreted in a way that made us unable to include some of these costs in the amounts we charge our customers, it could reduce our revenues and therefore negatively impact our business. It is possible that more restrictive interpretations or expansions of NOTA could be adopted which could require us to change one or more aspects of our business, at a substantial cost, in order to continue to comply with this statute. A variety of additional local, state, federal and international government laws and regulations govern our business, including those relating to the storage, handling, generation, manufacture, disposal of medical wastes from the processing of tissue and collaborations with health care professionals. If we fail to conduct our business in compliance with these laws and regulations, we could be subject to significant liabilities for which our insurance may not be adequate. Moreover, such insurance may not always be available in the future on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If our insurance proves to be inadequate to pay a damage award, we may not have sufficient funds to do so, which would harm our financial condition and liquidity. 15 Table of Contents Our success depends on the continued acceptance of our surgical implants and technologies by the medical community. New allograft, xenograft, metal or synthetic implants, technologies or enhancements to our existing implants may never achieve broad market acceptance, which can be affected by numerous factors, including lack of clinical acceptance of implants and technologies; introduction of competitive treatment options which render implants and technologies too expensive or obsolete; lack of availability of third-party reimbursement; and difficulty training surgeons in the use of tissue implants and technologies. Market acceptance will also depend on our ability to demonstrate that our existing and new implants and technologies are an attractive alternative to existing treatment options. Our ability to do so will depend on surgeons’ evaluations of the clinical safety, efficacy, ease of use, reliability and cost-effectiveness of these treatment options and technologies. For example, we believe that some in the medical community have lingering concerns over the risk of disease transmission through the use of allografts. Furthermore, we believe that even if the medical community generally accepts our implants and technologies, acceptance and recommendations by influential surgeons will be important to their broad commercial success. If our implants and technologies are not broadly accepted in the marketplace, we may not achieve a competitive position in the market. Rapid technological changes could result in reduced demand for our implants. Technologies change rapidly in the industry in which we operate. For example, steady improvements have been made in synthetic human tissue substitutes which compete with our tissue implants. Unlike allografts, synthetic tissue technologies are not dependent on the availability of tissue. If one of our competitors successfully introduces synthetic technologies using recombinant technologies, which stimulate the growth of tissue surrounding an implant, it could result in a decline in demand for tissue implants. We may not be able to respond effectively to technological changes and emerging industry standards, or to successfully identify, develop or support new technologies or enhancements to existing implants in a timely and cost-effective manner, if at all. If we are unable to achieve the improvements in our implants necessary for their successful commercialization, the demand for our implants will suffer. We face intense competition, which could result in reduced acceptance and demand for our implants and technologies. The medical technology/biotechnology industry is intensely competitive. We compete with companies in the United States and internationally that engage in the development and production of medical technologies and processes including biotechnology, orthopedic, pharmaceutical, biomaterial and other companies; academic and scientific institutions; and public and private research organizations. Many of our competitors have much greater financial, technical, research, marketing, distribution, service and other resources than ours. Moreover, our competitors may offer a broader array of tissue repair treatment products and technologies or may have greater name recognition in the marketplace. For example, we compete with a number of divisions of Johnson & Johnson, a company with significantly greater resources and brand recognition than ours. Our competitors, including several development stage companies, may develop or market technologies that are more effective or commercially attractive than our technologies, or that may render our technologies obsolete. For example, the development of a synthetic tissue implant that permits remodeling of bones could reduce the demand for allograft and xenograft-based implants and technologies. If we do not manage the medical release of donor tissue into processing in an effective and efficient manner, it could adversely affect profitability. Many factors affect the level and timing of donor medical releases, including the effectiveness of donor screening performed by donor recovery groups, the timely receipt, recording and review of required medical documentation, and employee loss and turnover in our medical records department. We can provide no assurance that releases will occur at levels which maximize our processing efficiency and minimize our cost per allograft processed. 16 Table of Contents Negative publicity concerning methods of human tissue recovery and screening of donor tissue in the industry in which we operate may reduce demand for our allografts and impact the supply of available donor tissue. Media reports or other negative publicity concerning both methods of tissue recovery from donors and actual or potential disease transmission from donated tissue may limit widespread acceptance of our allografts, whether directed to allografts generally or our allografts specifically. Unfavorable reports of improper or illegal tissue recovery practices, both in the United States and internationally, as well as incidents of improperly processed tissue leading to transmission of disease, may broadly affect the rate of future tissue donation and market acceptance of allograft technologies. Potential patients may not be able to distinguish our allografts, technologies and the tissue recovery and the processing procedures from those of our competitors or others engaged in tissue recovery. In addition, families of potential donors may become reluctant to agree to donate tissue to for-profit tissue processors. If our patents and the other means we use to protect our intellectual property prove to be inadequate, our competitors could exploit our intellectual property to compete more effectively against us. The law of patents and trade secrets is constantly evolving and often involves complex legal and factual questions. The U.S. government may deny or significantly reduce the coverage we seek for our patent applications before or after a patent is issued. We cannot be sure that any particular patent for which we apply will be issued, that the scope of the patent protection will be comprehensive enough to provide adequate protection from competing technologies, that interference, derivation, reexamination, post-grant review or inter parties review proceedings regarding any of our patent applications will not be filed, or that we will achieve any other competitive advantage from a patent. In addition, it is possible that one or more of our patents will be held invalid or reduced in scope of claims if challenged or that others will claim rights in or ownership of our patents and other proprietary rights. If any of these events occur, our competitors may be able to use our intellectual property to compete more effectively against us. Because patent applications remain secret until published (typically 18 months after first filing) and the publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lag behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that our patent application was the first application filed disclosing or potentially covering a particular invention. If another party’s rights to an invention are superior to ours, we may not be able to obtain a license to use that party’s invention on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, our competitors, many of which have greater resources than ours, could obtain patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make use of our inventions either in the United States or in international markets. Further, the laws of some foreign countries do not always protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Litigation or regulatory proceedings in the United States or foreign countries also may be necessary to enforce our patent or other intellectual property rights or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of our competitors. These proceedings can be costly, result in development delays, and divert the attention of our management. We rely upon unpatented proprietary techniques and processes in tissue recovery, research and development, tissue processing, manufacturing and quality assurance. It is possible that others will independently develop technology similar to our technology or otherwise gain access to or disclose our proprietary technologies. We may not be able to meaningfully protect our rights in these proprietary technologies, which would reduce our ability to compete. Our success depends in part on our ability to operate without infringing on or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others, and if we are unable to do so we may be liable for damages. We cannot be certain that U.S. or foreign patents or patent applications of other companies do not exist or will not be issued that would prevent us from commercializing our allografts, xenografts, surgical implants and other technologies. Third parties may sue us for infringing or misappropriating their patent or other intellectual property rights. Intellectual property litigation is costly. If we do not prevail in litigation, in addition to any damages we might have to pay, we could be required to cease the infringing activity or obtain a license requiring us to make royalty payments. It is possible that a required license may not be available to us on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, a required license may be non-exclusive, and therefore our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license or are unable to design around another company’s patent, we may be unable to make use of some of the affected technologies or distribute the affected allografts, xenografts or surgical implants, which would reduce our revenues. The defense costs and settlements for patent infringement lawsuits are not covered by insurance. Patent infringement lawsuits can take years to settle. If we are not successful in our defenses or are not successful in obtaining dismissals of any such lawsuit, legal fees or settlement costs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. 17 Table of Contents We or our competitors may be exposed to product or professional liability claims which could cause us to be liable for damages or cause investors to think we will be liable for similar claims in the future. The development of allografts and technologies for human tissue repair and treatment entails an inherent risk of product or professional liability claims, and substantial product or professional liability claims may be asserted against us. We are party to a number of legal proceedings relating to professional liability. The prevailing view among the states throughout the United States is that providing allografts is a service and not the sale of a product. As such, allografts are not subject to product liability causes of action. However, the law of a particular state could change in response to legislative changes or by judicial interpretation in a state where such issue has either not been previously addressed or prior precedent is overturned or subject to different interpretations by a court of higher precedential authority. In addition, due to the international scope of our activities we are subject to different laws which may treat allografts as products in those jurisdictions. The implantation of donated human tissue implants creates the potential for transmission of communicable diseases. Although we comply with federal and state regulations and guidelines intended to prevent communicable disease transmission, and our tissue suppliers are also required to comply with such regulations, there can be no assurances that: (i) our tissue suppliers will comply with such regulations intended to prevent communicable disease transmissions; (ii) even if such compliance is achieved, that our implants have not been or will not be associated with transmission of disease; or (iii) a patient otherwise infected with disease would not erroneously assert a claim that the use of our implants resulted in disease transmission. We currently have $20 million of product and professional liability insurance to cover claims. This amount of insurance may not be adequate for potential claims if we are not successful in our defenses. Moreover, insurance covering our business may not always be available in the future on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If our insurance proves to be inadequate to pay a damage award, we may not have sufficient funds to do so, which would harm our financial condition and liquidity. In addition, successful product liability claims made against one of our competitors could cause claims to be made against us or expose us to a perception that we are vulnerable to similar claims. Claims against us, regardless of their merit or potential outcome, may also hurt our ability to obtain surgeon acceptance of our allografts or to expand our business. We are subject to federal, state and foreign laws and regulations, including fraud and abuse laws, as well as anti-bribery laws, and could face substantial penalties if we fail to fully comply with such regulations and laws. Our relationship with foreign and domestic government entities and healthcare professionals, such as physicians, hospitals and those to whom and through whom we may market our implants and technologies, are subject to scrutiny under various federal, state and territorial laws in the United States and other jurisdictions in which we conduct business. These include, for example, anti-kickback laws, physician self-referral laws, false claims laws, criminal health care fraud laws, and anti-bribery laws e.g. the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, fines, imprisonment and, within the United States, exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, including Medicare, Medicaid and Veterans Administration health programs. These laws are administered by, among others, the U.S. Department of Justice, the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services, state attorneys general, and their respective counterparts in the applicable foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. Many of these agencies have increased their enforcement activities with respect to medical device manufacturers in recent years. If we are not successful in expanding our distribution activities into international markets, we will not be able to pursue one of our strategies for increasing revenues. Our international distribution strategies vary by market, as well as within each country in which we operate. For example, we distribute only a portion of our line of allograft and xenograft implants within each country. Our international operations will be subject to a number of risks which may vary from the risks we face in the United States, including the need to obtain regulatory approvals in additional foreign countries before we can offer our implants and technologies for use; longer distribution-to-collection cycles, as well as difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; dependence on local distributors; limited protection of intellectual property rights; fluctuations in the values of foreign currencies; and political and economic instability. 18 Table of Contents The outcome of litigation or arbitration in which we are involved is unpredictable and an adverse decision in any such matter could adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are from time to time subject to legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business. For example, we were named as a party, along with a number of other recovery and processor defendants, in lawsuits relating to the tissue recovery practices of Biomedical Tissue Service, Ltd. (“BTS”), an unaffiliated recovery agency and BTS’s owner, the late, Michael Mastromarino, as well as several funeral homes and their owners with which BTS conducted its activities. These cases generally alleged that we had liability for interference with the rights of the surviving next of kin as perpetrated by BTS and the funeral homes. As a result of increased judicial clarity during the second quarter of 2012 regarding timing of litigation, and anticipated increases in legal activity and expense flowing therefrom, we determined that the cost of continuing an aggressive legal defense for certain of the lawsuits would be significant. Therefore, in order to mitigate our financial exposure, an agreement was reached to settle 29 of the lawsuits for which our insurer was not paying for the legal fees. Pursuant to the settlement of these lawsuits, we recorded a litigation settlement charge of $2.4 million in the second quarter of 2012 which was paid in the third quarter of 2012. Through our affiliation with RTIDS which is a controlled entity , we currently have $2.0 million in answerable indemnity insurance, with non-eroding defense limits. On July 25, 2013, we and attorneys for the majority of the remaining donor family cases signed an agreement to settle those cases for an upfront payment of $2.7 million with a contingent interest in any recovery in our litigation with our insurer, in the amount of $300,000. In the event the $300,000 has not been recovered from the insurance company by January 15, 2015, we will guarantee its payment. Pursuant to the settlement of these lawsuits, we recorded a litigation settlement charge of $3.0 million in the second quarter of 2013. The resolution of these cases related to BTS effectively brought to conclusion any reasonable probability for materially adverse impact on our business, financial conditions, or results of operations. In addition, Lanx, Inc., a subsidiary of Biomet, Inc. (“Lanx”), filed suit in the second quarter of 2013 against Pioneer in the U.S. District Court, District of Colorado, alleging that one of our medical devices infringes certain of Lanx’s U.S. intellectual property rights, and seeking monetary damages and injunctive relief. The parties are currently in discovery and litigation is ongoing. We have given notice to the former Pioneer stockholders’ agent of an indemnification claim against the Pioneer escrow fund. As of January 17, 2014, the parties had reached an agreement in principle to resolve the claim with no material financial impact to us or our operations. Final documentation of the resolution is presently being negotiated. An adverse resolution of lawsuits or arbitrations could adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. Any acquisitions we make may require the issuance of a significant amount of equity or debt securities and may not be scientifically or commercially successful. As part of our business strategy, we may perform acquisitions to obtain additional businesses, product and/or process technologies, capabilities and personnel. If we make one or more significant acquisitions in which the consideration includes securities, we may be required to issue a substantial amount of equity, debt, warrants, convertible instruments or other similar securities. Such an issuance could dilute your investment in our common stock or increase our interest expense and other expenses. Further, acquisitions involve a number of operational risks, such as: • difficulty and expense of assimilating the operations, technology and personnel of the acquired business; • our inability to retain the management, key personnel and other employees of the acquired business; • our inability to maintain the acquired company’s relationship with customers and key third parties, such as alliance partners; • exposure to legal claims for activities of the acquired business prior to the acquisition; • the diversion of our management’s attention from our core business; and • the potential impairment of goodwill and write-off of in-process research and development costs, adversely affecting our reported results of operations. Any one of these risks could prevent an acquisition from being scientifically or commercially successful, which could have a material impact on our results of operations not only with respect to the operations of the acquired company but with respect to us on a consolidated basis. 19 Table of Contents The acquisition of Pioneer may create uncertainty for our suppliers, employees and business partners. On July 16, 2013, we completed the acquisition of Pioneer. With the acquisition, we may experience delays or deferred decisions from Pioneer suppliers to become our suppliers and our existing suppliers may experience uncertainty about our service, including the results of any integration of our business with that of Pioneer. This may adversely affect our ability to gain new suppliers and retain existing suppliers, which could adversely affect our revenues as well as the market price of our common stock. Current employees may experience uncertainty about their post-acquisition roles with us and key employees may depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with us following the acquisition. Other parties with whom we have or are pursuing relationships, such as distributors, hospitals and surgeons, may defer agreeing to further arrangements with us, or may opt not to become a business partner of ours at all. The acquisition of Pioneer may expose us to significant unanticipated liabilities that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Pioneer acquisition may expose us to significant unanticipated liabilities of Pioneer. These liabilities could include employment, retirement or severance-related obligations under applicable law or other benefits arrangements, legal claims, warranty or similar liabilities to customers, and claims by or amounts owed to vendors. We may also incur liabilities or claims associated with our acquisition of Pioneer’s technology and intellectual property including claims of infringement. Particularly in international jurisdictions, our acquisition of Pioneer, or our decision to independently enter new international markets where Pioneer previously conducted business, could also expose us to tax liabilities and other amounts owed by Pioneer. The incurrence of such unforeseen or unanticipated liabilities, should they be significant, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The issuance of shares of our preferred stock to WSHP Biologics Holdings, LLC stockholder in the acquisition has reduced the percentage interests of our current stockholders. We issued 50,000 shares of Series A convertible preferred stock (“Preferred Stock”) to WSHP Biologics Holdings, LLC, an affiliate of Water Street Healthcare Partners, a leading healthcare-focused private equity firm (“Water Street”), in connection with the closing of the Pioneer acquisition. Based on the number of shares of our common stock outstanding on the date of the acquisition, Water Street owns, in the aggregate, Preferred Stock convertible into approximately 17% of the shares of our common stock outstanding immediately after the acquisition. The issuance of Preferred Stock to Water Street in the acquisition has caused a reduction in the relative voting power and percentage interests in earnings of our current stockholders and also will reduce their liquidation value and book value. The issuance of Preferred Stock to Water Street may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We are unable to predict the potential effects of the issuance of the securities to Water Street on the trading activity and market price of our common stock. Pursuant to our investor rights agreement with Water Street, we have granted Water Street and their permitted transferees registration rights for the resale of the shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of the Preferred Stock. These registration rights would facilitate the resale of such securities into the public market, and any such resale would increase the number of shares of our common stock available for public trading. Sales by Water Street or its permitted transferees of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales might occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Water Street may exercise significant influence over us, including through its ability to elect up to two members of our Board of Directors. Holders of the Preferred Stock are entitled to vote on an as-converted basis upon all matters upon which holders of our common stock have the right to vote. The shares of Preferred Stock owned by the Water Street currently represent approximately 17% of the voting rights in respect of our share capital on an as-converted basis, so Water Street has the ability to significantly influence the outcome of any matter submitted for the vote of our stockholders. In addition, to the extent dividends are not paid in cash in any quarter for any reason, including any restriction on making such distributions under the terms of our credit agreement with TD Bank (as discussed below), the dividends which have accrued on each outstanding share of Preferred Stock during such three-month period shall be accumulated and shall be added to the liquidation value with respect to such share of Preferred Stock. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2013, we did not pay dividends on the Preferred Stock and accrued a $750,000 preferred dividend payable as of December 31, 2013. To the extent dividends continue to accrue on the Preferred Stock, Water Street’s voting rights in respect of our share capital on an as-converted basis will also continue to increase. 20 Table of Contents Water Street may have interests that diverge from, or even conflict with, those of our other stockholders. In addition, our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Investor Rights Agreement with Water Street provide that Water Street’s consent is required before we may take certain actions for so long as Water Street and its permitted transferees beneficially own in the aggregate at least 10% of our issued share capital. In addition, our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and our Investor Rights Agreement with Water Street provide that Water Street has the right to designate and nominate, respectively, directors to our Board of Directors such that the percentage of our board members so designated or nominate is approximately equal to Water Street’s percentage equity ownership interest in the company. The maximum number of directors that Water Street is able to designate or nominate is two, with at least one of such directors to serve on each of our Board committees. If Water Street’s ownership of our share capital on an as-converted basis falls below 5% (calculated on a fully diluted basis, assuming conversion of the Preferred Stock at the then-existing conversion price), Water Street would have no further director designation or nomination rights under our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or the investor rights agreement. In addition, the ownership position and the governance rights of Water Street could discourage a third party from proposing a change of control or other strategic transaction with us. We incurred significant transaction and acquisition-related costs in connection with the acquisition. For the year ended December 31, 2013, we incurred charges of approximately $6.0 million in outside costs, including legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, which were expensed as part of the acquisition. In addition, the combined company will incur integration costs associated with the acquisition. These integration costs will be charged to operations in the fiscal quarter in which they are incurred, which could adversely affect the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the combined company. Our level of indebtedness that we incurred in connection with the acquisition of Pioneer could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and prevent us from meeting our obligations under the agreements relating to our indebtedness. Our level of indebtedness that we incurred in connection with the acquisition of Pioneer could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and could potentially prevent us from meeting our obligations under the agreements relating to our indebtedness. In connection with the closing of the acquisition, we obtained from our lenders a 5-year, $80 million senior secured facility, which includes a $60 million term loan and a $20 million revolving credit facility. Additionally, we issued Preferred Stock to Water Street for $50 million in gross proceeds. The Preferred Stock accrues dividends at a rate of 6% per annum. Dividends are payable in cash on a quarterly basis for each outstanding share of Preferred Stock. To the extent dividends are not paid in cash in any quarter, the dividends which have accrued on each outstanding share of Preferred Stock during such three-month period shall be accumulated and shall be added to the liquidation value with respect to such share of Preferred Stock. In the fourth quarter of 2013, we did not pay dividends on the Preferred Stock and accrued a $750,000 preferred dividend payable as of December 31, 2013, which has been added to the liquidation value with respect to the Preferred Stock. Our ability to pay dividends and to make distributions may be limited or prohibited by the terms of our indebtedness or Preferred Stock. We are, and may in the future become, party to agreements and instruments that restrict or prevent the payment of dividends on our capital stock. Under the terms of our credit agreement with TD Bank, we are restricted from paying dividends on our common stock without the prior written consent the administrative agent. We are also restricted from paying dividends or making distributions on our common stock without the prior written consent of the holders of a majority of the Preferred Stock pursuant to the terms of the Certificate of Designation of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, so long as any shares of the Preferred Stock remain outstanding. In addition, under the terms of our credit agreement with TD Bank, distributions to holders of our Preferred Stock are permitted only to the extent that we can satisfy certain financial covenant tests (based on the ratio of our total indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA) and meet other requirements. In the event that we fail to pay the accrued distributions on our Preferred Stock for any reason, including any restriction on making such distributions under the terms of our credit agreement with TD Bank, distributions will continue to accrue on such Preferred Stock. 21 Table of Contents Our credit agreement contains financial and operating restrictions that may limit our access to credit. If we fail to comply with financial or other covenants in our credit agreement, we may be required to repay indebtedness to our existing lenders, which may harm our liquidity. Provisions in our credit agreement impose restrictions on our ability to, among other things: • merge or consolidate; • make strategic acquisitions; • make dispositions of property; • create liens; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • become a guarantor; • pay dividends and make distributions (as described above); • incur more debt; and • make investments. Our credit agreement also contains financial covenants that require us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios and maintain a specified amount of cash on hand. In December 2013, we entered into an amendment to the credit agreement which, in part, modified certain financial covenants so that we could maintain compliance with the financial ratios. We may not be able to comply with the financial covenants in the future. In the absence of a waiver from our lenders, any failure by us to comply with these covenants in the future may result in the declaration of an event of default, which could prevent us from borrowing under our credit agreement. In addition to preventing additional borrowings under our credit agreement, an event of default, if not cured or waived, may result in the acceleration of the maturity of indebtedness outstanding, if any, under the agreement, which would require us to pay all amounts outstanding. If an event of default occurs, we may not be able to cure it within any applicable cure period, if at all. If the maturity of our indebtedness is accelerated, we then may not have sufficient funds available for repayment or the ability to borrow or obtain sufficient funds to replace the accelerated indebtedness on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We may not be able to successfully integrate our acquisition of Pioneer or realize all of the anticipated benefits. We expect to achieve various benefits from combining our and Pioneer’s resources, as well as cost savings from a combined operation. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the acquisition will depend in part upon whether our two companies integrate our businesses in an efficient and effective manner. We may not be able to accomplish this integration process smoothly or successfully or in a timely manner. The consolidated statement of operations data for the year ended December 31, 2013 includes the impact of the Pioneer acquisition beginning on July 16, 2013, the date of acquisition. Comparisons with prior periods are difficult, and although our total revenues increased for the year ended December 31, 2013 as a result of the Pioneer acquisition, negative financial trends we have been experiencing in prior quarters have continued to negatively impact our revenues and our net income in the year ended December 31, 2013. In addition, revenues from Pioneer implants were lower than we anticipated. If the trends in these markets continue, they may have a material adverse effect on the company. The integration of Pioneer with our operations requires significant attention from management and may impose substantial demands on our operations. Any inability of management to integrate successfully the operations of our two companies, or to do so in a timely manner, could have an adverse effect on the combined company or the expected benefits from the acquisition. The complexity of the integration and transition associated with the Pioneer acquisition, together with Pioneer’s increased scale and global presence, may affect our internal control over financial reporting and our ability to effectively and timely report our financial results. The additional scale of Pioneer’s operations, together with the complexity of the integration effort, including changes to or implementation of critical information technology systems, may adversely affect our ability to report our financial results on a timely basis. We expect that the Pioneer acquisition may necessitate significant modifications to our internal control systems, processes and information systems, both on a transition basis and over the longer-term as we fully integrate Pioneer. Due to the complexity of the Pioneer acquisition, we cannot be certain that changes to our internal control over financial reporting for the year ended December 31, 2013 will be effective for any period, or on an ongoing basis. If we are unable to accurately report our financial results in a timely manner, or are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting are effective, our business, results of operations and financial condition and the market perception thereof may be materially adversely affected. 22 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 