ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to other information in this Report, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating our business, because such factors may have a significant impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition, and could cause our stock price to decline. As a result of the risk factors set forth below and elsewhere in this Report, and the risks discussed in our other Securities and Exchange Commission filings, actual future results could differ materially from historical results or those projected in any forward-looking statements. Risks related to our growth strategy Since early 2011 we have been transforming our business model, and due to the complexity of this turnaround, our quarterly financial results may be subject to fluctuations that may cause material variations in our quarterly operating results and make it difficult to forecast future performance. We continue to execute our turnaround plan initiated in 2011. We believe we have executed the first stage of our turnaround to stabilize the business. In 2013 we are focused on leveraging the foundation we have built to accelerate growth. Based upon the number of variables within our turnaround plan, our business is subject to execution risk and it may be difficult to project results. Our operating plan considers our ability to execute these initiatives and generate results within a specific timeframe. If we are unable to execute our initiatives as planned, our quarterly financial results may fluctuate and future quarterly results will be affected. A significant portion of our subscription revenue for a particular quarter is derived from transactions that are initiated in previous quarters, because revenue is generally recognized ratably over the subscription term. Our current and future levels of operating expenses and capital expenditures are based largely on our growth plans and estimates of future revenue. These expenditure levels are, to a large extent, fixed in the short term. We may not be able to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall, and any significant shortfall in revenue relative to planned expenditures could harm our business and results of operations. Our new consultative sales approach may not scale SMB business as planned. We are transitioning our SMB sales organization from a transactional sales process to a consultative sales process. The consultative selling process focuses on fewer, more targeted prospects, which we expect to renew at higher rates with higher ACVC. The consultative sales process requires a longer sales cycle than a transactional model and requires the development of a substantial pipeline of qualified prospects to achieve consistent and predictable results. Due to the complexity of a consultative sale, our SMB sales people may not be able to scale their individual results to maximize profitability. As a result of these risks, our SMB business may not scale as planned. 11 We may not be successful in the development and execution of an enterprise sales and marketing program. We expect to derive a meaningful portion of our growth from sales to large businesses, who offer the highest lifetime value to our organization. In the past, we have attempted to grow our enterprise organization, and have not been successful in achieving our goals around these initiatives. If we are unsuccessful in driving growth through this channel, our growth rates will suffer. We may not be successful in expanding our channel sales program. We believe there are close to 1.9 million businesses who are “casual users” of government procurement data. These businesses are not part of our new target market, and a portion of our existing client base falls into this category. We intend to focus our sales and marketing efforts on what we believe is a more profitable target market of approximately 30,000 companies who are “power-users” of government procurement data. This strategy may cause lower retention rates for existing clients that are outside of this target market. We plan to partner with companies who can service the casual user segment more economically than we can. If we are unsuccessful in continuing to develop these partnerships, our growth rates will be impacted. We may fail to attract, hire and retain sales associates who can effectively communicate the value of our products to our clients and prospects, and they may be unable to achieve expected sales targets. In order to achieve growth targets, our sales teams must be able to effectively communicate the value of our products to existing and potential clients. We expect to see increases in client retention rates and in new client acquisition revenue. However, our sales goals are aggressive and may not be achieved. Our competitors may develop similar technologies that are more broadly accepted in the marketplace. The functionality in Onvia’s products provides business intelligence across industry verticals and geographic regions. If competitors introduce products with similar functionality or are able to more effectively market and price their products for broad client acceptance, new client acquisition and existing client retention would be adversely impacted. If we are unable to enhance functionality or increase marketing efforts to offset challenges from competitors, we may lose market share. Rapid advances in technology and new mediums for distributing information may diminish the value of our service offerings. Our business model is predicated on providing access to and analysis of hard to find public and private sector information. Information in general is quickly becoming more accessible at a low cost as new distribution mediums, such as blogs, and new search technologies are developed. We may be unable to keep up with the rapid advances in information collection, and new technologies and mediums may be developed that commoditize the value of our services. If this were to occur, our revenues would suffer. Risks related to our new product strategy We may fail to introduce new content and products that are broadly accepted by clients and prospects, and there may be delays in the introduction of these tools and products. If client acceptance and adoption of our new products is below our expectations, projected growth rates and client acquisition and retention goals may not be achieved, and financial results would be harmed. We expect to utilize internally developed technology and technology licensed from third parties for the development of new tools and content. If we are unable to develop or acquire the required technology on time, or at all, or if the launch of these new products is delayed for any other reason beyond our anticipated launch dates, projected growth rates may not be achieved. We may be unable to control the cost of ongoing content collection or the cost of collecting new content types to support new product offerings. We will need to identify cost effective sources and develop efficient collection processes for new content types required to support new product development plans. If we are unable to find new ways to collect content efficiently, and aggregate new content types in a cost effective manner, gross margins may decline. 12 We may improperly price new product offerings for broad client acceptance. We have developed pricing strategies for our existing products, and will be required to develop new pricing strategies for planned new product launches. If clients and prospects do not perceive that the pricing of our products is commensurate with the value they receive from the products, or if our sales staff is unable to communicate the value of the products, particularly in light of the current economic climate, new client adoption and existing client retention would be adversely impacted. We may overestimate the value of sales and marketing intelligence to companies in the infrastructure marketplace. We believe there is a large unmet market need for robust public sector sales and marketing information because information that is highly fragmented across different levels of agencies. Our business model assumes that clients will continue to pay recurring subscriptions for our content and delivery solutions and we expect increases in the annual value of these contracts as a result of this. If we have overestimated the value of this information, we will not achieve our forecasted revenue goals. Financial, economic and market risks Utilization of our net operating loss carryforwards may be subject to annual limitations under the Internal Revenue Code, or may not be usable at all in the future. We have substantial net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”) that could be used to offset future tax liabilities arising from future taxable income. In 2011, we conducted a study and determined that an “ownership change” occurred in 2001, as defined under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (which is generally a greater than a 50 percentage point increase by certain “5% shareholders” over a rolling three-year period). Section 382 imposes an annual limitation on the utilization of deferred tax assets, such as NOLs and other tax attributes, once an ownership change has occurred. The ownership change which occurred in 2001 resulted in a permanent loss of $180.0 million of our U.S. federal deferred tax assets. After this impairment, we had $72.4 million in NOLs as of December 31, 2012 available to offset future taxable net income. It is possible that we could have an additional “ownership change” under Section 382 of the Code in the future and lose a significant portion of our deferred tax assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. As discussed in the following risk factor, we adopted a tax benefits preservation plan in early 2011 to mitigate the risk of future ownership changes. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for usability based on a history of earnings, expectations for future earnings and expected timing of reversals of temporary differences. Realization of deferred tax assets ultimately depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income, including taxable income in prior carryback years, as well as future taxable income. Prior to 2011, we maintained a 100% valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets because based upon our history of net operating losses, we were uncertain about our ability to generate future taxable net income. Since the end of 2011, we have determined, based on evaluation of all available objective positive and negative evidence related to the creation of future taxable net income, that a partial release of our valuation allowance is appropriate. As a result of this partial release, our full year and fourth quarter 2012 and 2011 net income includes a tax benefit of $1,559,000 and $616,000, respectively. We will continue to evaluate the appropriateness of our valuation allowance annually at a minimum, and more frequently if necessary, in consideration of future operating results. If our operating results do not continue to improve, we may be unable to realize the value of this asset in the future. We adopted a tax benefits preservation plan, designed to preserve the value of our deferred tax assets, primarily related to net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”), which may discourage acquisition and sale of large blocks of our stock and may result in significant dilution for certain stockholders. In May 2011, our Board of Directors (the “Board”) adopted a tax benefits preservation plan in the form of a Section 382 Rights Agreement (the “382 Agreement”), which amends and replaces the previously approved Preferred Stock Rights Agreement, dated November 22, 2002. The 382 Agreement is designed to preserve stockholder value and the value of certain income tax assets primarily associated with NOLs by acting as a deterrent to any person acquiring beneficial ownership of 4.9% or more of Onvia’s outstanding common stock without the approval of the Board. Under the 382 Agreement, one Preferred Stock Purchase Right (each, a “Right”) was distributed for each share of Common Stock outstanding as of the close of business on May 23, 2011. Pursuant to the 382 Agreement and at the discretion of our Board, if any person or group becomes the beneficial owner (subject to certain restrictions) of 4.9% or more of the outstanding shares of Common Stock the Rights may become exercisable. Upon exercise of a Right and payment of the purchase price of $20.00 (the “Purchase Price”), the holder will be entitled to receive a number of shares of Common Stock having a market value equal to two times the Purchase Price. 13 The 382 Agreement may discourage existing 5% stockholders from selling their interest in a single block which may impact the liquidity of Onvia common stock, may deter institutional investors from investing in Onvia stock, and may deter potential acquirers from making premium offers to acquire Onvia, all factors which may depress the market price of our stock or prevent stockholders from receiving a premium in a change in control transaction. Provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law may discourage takeover attempts and depress the market price of our stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, the state of our incorporation, can have the effect of making it difficult for a third-party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include: • the classification of our Board of Directors into three classes so that the directors serve staggered three-year terms, which may make it difficult for a potential acquirer to gain control of our Board; • authorizing the issuance of shares of undesignated preferred stock without a vote of stockholders; and • non-cumulative voting for the election of directors. Political pressure as a result of deficits and budget shortfalls, including recent developments around the federal budget and the sequester, may lead to reduced spending by federal, state and local government agencies. Should agencies reduce spending, there may be fewer revenue opportunities to deliver to our clients. Existing clients that leverage our products primarily for new sales leads may perceive a drop in opportunities as a reduction in their return on investment, which could lead to reduced retention rates. In addition, prospects considering an investment in our products may perceive a decline in government spending as a signal that there will be fewer opportunities and they may decide against purchasing a business intelligence solution, or may decide against pursuing public sector opportunities all together, which would negatively impact new client acquisition. Operational risks We may not effectively implement new technologies, and new product functionality could fail to perform as designed. We periodically release products that employ new search technologies and complex database architecture in new and innovative ways. These technologies are usually built in house, or purchased from third party vendors and reengineered to meet our operational needs. If the creative application of these technologies does not work as planned or if we implement these new technologies poorly or in incompatible ways, our new products and services may not function properly, delivery of our products could be disrupted or delayed and our client retention and new client acquisition may suffer. System failures could cause an interruption in the services of our network and impact our ability to compile information and deliver our products to clients. Any system failure that causes an interruption in the service of our suite of products, disrupts our ability to aggregate, organize and publish new content, or reduces timely access to and delivery of our content could result in client dissatisfaction, which would impact client acquisition and retention rates. Further, prolonged or ongoing performance problems on our web sites or our application servers, which support bid creation and distribution, could damage our reputation and result in the permanent loss of clients. In the past, system interruptions have made our web sites and application servers totally unavailable, slowed their response time or prevented us from making service available to clients. These problems may occur again in the future. We may not have sufficient business interruption insurance to cover losses from major interruptions. We deployed our primary business application servers to a secure offsite facility with backup utility power and redundant Internet connectivity in 2008. Our current physical and virtual tape drive based disaster recovery systems are not capable of recovering core business functionality in less than a period of several days depending on severity in the event of a disaster scenario at the offsite facility. Production Information Technology and Research department functions will be operational in the event of a local building disaster so that delivery of our products will not be significantly interrupted as long as the offsite facility is still operational. Our disaster recovery plan does not yet include automated failover of product distribution-related systems, requiring extensive manual intervention to complete the recovery process which could result in prolonged service interruptions and ultimately lower client satisfaction. In addition, all our platform related servers are in the Seattle area and we do not have redundancy outside this geographical area in case of some natural calamity. 14 Our current technology infrastructure and network software systems may be unable to accommodate our anticipated growth, and we may require a significant investment in these systems to accommodate performance and storage requirements of new and planned products. Expansion of the historical content contained in our products and future product offerings to clients have and will place significant additional demands on our enterprise-grade technology infrastructure. We add thousands of records to our database each day, which has required us to expand the storage capacity of the database and clients access to this information requires significant computing power based on usage. If new content types or product introductions change current network and computing requirements or if growth in our client base exceeds our expectations, we may be required to make significant investments to upgrade our systems to accommodate such changes, which could negatively impact our cash flows and results of operations. We may not be successful in our efforts to upgrade our systems, or if we do successfully upgrade our systems, we may not do so on time and within budget. Failure to achieve a stable technological platform in time to handle increasing network usage may discourage potential clients from using our network. We may not be able to retain the services of our executive officers, directors, senior managers and other key employees, which would harm our business. Our business and operations are substantially dependent on the performance of senior management, directors and key employees. Our process for succession planning across all levels of the organization to provide business continuity includes developing, coaching and rewarding high performing employees. The loss and inability to replace any of these employees or directors, including Hank Riner (CEO), Cameron Way (CFO), and Naveen Rajkumar (CIO), and Irv Alpert (EVP), would likely harm our business. We could incur substantial costs in the future as a result of cyber incidents. In addition, as our dependence on digital technologies to conduct operations increases, so does the risk associated with cyber security. The Company may be unable to prevent targeted, random or accidental breaches of our security and could incur significant costs associated with lost or stolen information, including increased cyber security protection costs, lost revenues, reputational damage or increased litigation. Political, social or environmental conditions in off-shore locations may impact the collection and delivery of our content and/or development of new products. Portions of our content are aggregated and/or formatted by off-shore vendors. Delivery of that content may be impacted by local political, social or environmental conditions, which may result in delayed delivery to clients resulting in client dissatisfaction. We also outsource portions of the development of new products to off-shore vendors. Political, social or environmental conditions in those locations may result in delays of new product introductions. We may be unable to effectively monitor and prevent unauthorized redistribution of our published information. In the past we have identified a number of entities that have redistributed proprietary information without authorization and against our terms of use. We have been and will continue to be aggressive about monitoring and combating such unauthorized use, and are considering technological avenues for blocking such users from our database. However, if we fail to effectively combat such unauthorized use, our business could be harmed. Our services and products depend upon the continued availability of licensed technology from third parties, and we may not be able to obtain those licenses on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We license, and will continue to license, technology integral to our services and products from third parties. If we are unable to acquire or retain key third-party product licenses or integrate the related third-party products into our network services, our service and product development may be delayed. We also expect to acquire new licenses in the future as our business grows and technology evolves. We may not be able to obtain these licenses on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. 15 Regulatory, judicial or legislative risks Future regulations could be enacted that either directly restrict our business or indirectly impact our business by limiting the growth of e-commerce. We are subject to laws and regulations governing the Internet and e-commerce. These laws and regulations may cover privacy, content, taxation, data protection, copyrights, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, unencumbered Internet access to our services, the design and operations of websites, and the characteristics and quality of products and services. If enacted, unfavorable laws and regulations could limit the market for our services and offerings. Although many regulations might not apply to the business directly, we expect that laws regulating the collection or processing of personal or consumer information could indirectly affect our business. It is possible that legislation could expose companies involved in e-commerce to restrictions or liability, which could limit the growth of e-commerce generally. Legislation could hinder the growth in Internet use and decrease our acceptance as a medium for communication and commerce. If laws were enacted that made our products taxable at the state level, we may be required to pass those additional taxes along to our clients, which would increase the overall cost of our product to our end users and could impact the buying decisions of existing and potential new clients. Our access to new content from governmental entities and other third parties may be restricted if bid aggregation on the Internet is restricted by law or regulations. We aggregate new information from various public data sources and do not have exclusive access to this content. We cannot ensure that these data sources will continue to be available in the future. Moreover, public disclosure laws, which require governmental entities to produce bid information directly to members of the public, may negatively impact our business and reduce the value of our services to clients. The loss or the unavailability of data sources in the future, or the loss of right to distribute some of the data sources, would harm our business. Our proprietary content aggregation technology is integral to our success. If the process of content aggregation becomes regulated in the future and our process for acquiring government bids is no longer cost-effective, our business will be significantly harmed. If new regulations restricting our ability to charge a fee for public bid information are enacted, our business will be significantly harmed. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 