ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Certain Risks That May Affect Our Operating Results and Our Common Stock In addition to the other information in this report, the following factors should be considered in evaluating our business and our future prospects: We depend on a few customers for a significant portion of our revenues and this dependence is likely to continue. If we fail to obtain business from these key existing customers, our revenues will decline. We have derived, and believe that we will continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of large customers in the telecommunications industry in China, such as China Mobile, China Telecom and China Unicom (and their respective provincial subsidiaries). In the aggregate, China Mobile, China Telecom and China Unicom accounted for 98%, 98% and 96% of our total revenues in 2010, 2011 and 2012 respectively. The loss, cancellation or deferral of any large contract would have a material adverse effect on our revenues, and consequently our profits. We market our software and services to, and sign contracts with, individual provincial subsidiaries of these three telecommunications carriers as well as their headquarters. We believe that our future success will depend to a significant extent on our ability to develop and maintain long-term relationships with these telecommunications carriers at the headquarters and provincial levels. We have dedicated significant resources over the past few years to maintaining our relationships with these telecommunications carriers at both the provincial and the headquarter levels. However, IT spending authority may become more centralized. For instance, China Unicom adopted the practice of requiring contracts to be entered into with the headquarters for solutions provided to its provincial subsidiaries, although the provincial subsidiaries will remain as the main decision-makers regarding the purchases. If telecommunications carriers begin to centralize purchasing decisions or otherwise change the level within the telecom operator at which the purchase decision is made or replace a key decision-maker at any decision-making level, our customer relationship may be disrupted and we may be unable to effectively and timely restore these relationships. Any failure to maintain close relationships with customers, due to unsuccessful sales and marketing efforts, lack of suitable products and solutions, unsatisfactory customer support and services or any other reason, could result in our losing customers and their businesses. If we lose a key customer, if a key customer significantly reduces its purchasing levels or delays a major purchase or if we fail to attract additional major customers, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Political and economic policies of the Chinese government could affect our industry in general and our competitive position in particular. Since the establishment of the People’s Republic of China in 1949, the Communist Party has been the governing political party in China. The highest bodies of leadership are the Politburo of the Communist Party, the Central Committee and the National People’s Congress. The State Council, which is the highest institution of government administration, reports to the National People’s Congress and has under its supervision various commissions, agencies and ministries, including the MIIT, the telecommunications regulatory body of the Chinese government. Since the late 1970s, the Chinese government has been reforming the Chinese economic system. Although we believe that economic reform and the macroeconomic measures adopted by the Chinese government has had and will continue to have a positive effect on economic development in China, the economic reform strategy may from time to time be modified or revised. Such modifications or revisions, if any, could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China. Such developments could reduce, perhaps significantly, the demand for our products and services. Furthermore, changes in political, economic and social conditions in China, adjustments in policies of the Chinese government or changes in laws and regulations could adversely affect our industry in general and our competitive position in particular. 22 Table of Contents The growth of our business is dependent on government telecommunications infrastructure and budgetary policies, particularly the allocation of funds to sustain the growth of the telecommunications industry in China. Our telecommunications customers are directly or indirectly owned or controlled by the government of China. Accordingly, our business is also heavily dependent on these government policies. Insufficient future funding allocated to China’s telecommunications industry by the government could directly reduce the demand for our software and services. Government initiatives directed at the market could also significantly affect the market conditions for our customers and influence the level of spending on IT solutions and services. While some of these initiatives, such as the convergence of mobile and fixed-line markets in the telecommunications industry, may increase market competition and generate more demand for our software and services, the anticipated increase in demand may not materialize. Some of our customers may not adapt well to the market conditions under the new regulatory environment and may reduce their demand for our software and services as a result. The telecommunications industry may also become less competitive over time, either as a result of market propelled consolidations or as a result of government efforts to curtail competition. A less competitive market may create fewer incentives for IT spending on innovations and upgrades, which may directly affect our revenues and business prospects. The restructuring of China’s telecommunications sector may have an adverse impact on our business prospects and results of operations. Historically, China’s telecommunications sector has been subject to a number of state-mandated restructurings. For example, in 2002 China Telecom was split geographically into a northern division (comprising 10 provinces) and a southern division (comprising 21 provinces). As a result of the restructuring, new orders for telecommunications infrastructure expansion and improvement projects decreased, which adversely affected our revenue. Any similar restructurings of this nature could cause our operating results to vary unexpectedly from quarter to quarter in the future. It is also possible that software becomes centralized at the headquarters level of PRC telecommunications carriers or that China Mobile may establish two large data centers for the operation of its software structure, which may materially and adversely affect our operations. In May 2008, China restructured its telecommunications carriers, creating three major carriers that have mobile, fixed-line and data services. As China’s telecommunications industry grows larger in size and smaller in the number of telecommunications carriers, more IT solutions providers will be competing for projects and telecommunications carriers may be able to exact lower prices for our solutions and services. If we cannot effectively compete with our competitors, we may lose business and our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, telecommunications carriers may also find it more cost-effective to set up their own IT divisions to meet their IT needs, instead of outsourcing to third-party providers. If the current trend favoring the outsourcing of such services is reduced or reversed, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. The long and variable sales cycles for our software and services can cause our revenues and operating results to vary significantly from period to period and may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Our revenues and operating results will vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and any of which may cause our stock price to fluctuate. A customer’s decision to purchase our software and services involves a significant commitment of its resources and extended evaluation. As a result, our sales cycles tend to be lengthy, and in particular we expect our international sales to have long sales cycles in light of our smaller market presence. We spend considerable time and expense educating and providing information to prospective customers about features and applications of our software and services. Because our major customers often operate large and complex networks, they usually expand their networks in large increments on a periodic basis. The combination of these factors can cause our revenues and results of operations to vary significantly and unexpectedly from quarter to quarter. 23 Table of Contents A large part of the contract amount of our projects sometimes relates to hardware procurement. Since we recognize most of the revenues relating to hardware at the time of hardware delivery, the timing of hardware delivery can cause our quarterly gross revenues to fluctuate significantly. Due to the foregoing factors, we believe that quarter to quarter comparisons of our results of operations may not be a good indication of our future performance and should not be overly relied upon. It is likely that our results of operations in some periods may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In this event, the price of our common stock will probably decline, perhaps significantly more in percentage terms than any corresponding decline in our operating results. Our working capital requirements may increase significantly. We typically purchase hardware for our customers as part of our turn-key total solutions services. Other than the International Business Machines Corporation, or IBM Type Arrangements as described in the section entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” we generally require our customers to pay 80% to 90% of the invoice value of the hardware upon delivery. We typically place orders for hardware against back-to-back orders from customers and seek favorable payment terms from hardware vendors. This policy has historically minimized our working capital requirements. However, for certain large and strategically important projects, such as projects in Southeast Asia, we have agreed to payment of less than 80% to 90% of the invoice value of the hardware upon delivery in order to maintain competitiveness. Wider adoption of less favorable payment terms or delays in hardware deliveries could cause our working capital needs to increase significantly. We may be exposed to the credit risk of customers that have been adversely affected by weakened global economy. We typically sell our software and services as part of long-term projects. During the life of a project, a customer’s budgeting constraints can impact the scope of a project and the customer’s ability to make required payments. In addition, adverse general business conditions may degrade the creditworthiness of our customers over time, and we may be adversely affected by discontinued operations or other business failures. Our high level of fixed costs, as well as increased competition in the software market, could result in reduced operating margins. We maintain a relatively stable work force of software and network engineers engaged in all phases of planning and executing projects on behalf of our customers. As a result, our operating costs are relatively fixed from quarter to quarter, regardless of fluctuations in our revenues. Future fluctuations in our revenues could result in decreases in our operating margins. In addition, enhanced competition in the software market and other markets in which we operate could result in reduced prices, which, together with our relatively fixed operating costs, could also result in reduced operating margins. Moreover, our operating margins may decline as a result of the strong bargaining power of our customers, general economic conditions or the restructuring of the telecommunications sector in China. Substantial uncertainties exist with respect to our contractual arrangements with our affiliates engaged in businesses that PRC laws currently prohibit foreign-invested companies from engaging in. Certain of our affiliates are engaged in businesses that PRC laws and regulations currently prohibit foreign-invested companies from engaging in, including those involving value-added telecommunications services, which we refer to “restricted businesses.” AsiaInfo-Linkage and its PRC operating subsidiaries in China are considered foreign persons or foreign-invested enterprises under the laws of China and cannot therefore engage in restricted businesses. Many aspects of the telecommunications services industry, such as VATS, are also restricted from foreign ownership in most circumstances. In order to comply with these restrictions, we have entered into a series of contractual agreements with certain individuals to facilitate our domestic companies, principally ZXJ, in 24 Table of Contents conducting value-added telecommunications services business in the PRC. Through our VIEs we provide outbound call services on behalf of telecommunications operators in the PRC and may provide other value-added telecommunications services. Our VIEs make use of the licenses and approvals that are essential to conducting VATS business in the PRC. However, these licenses and approvals expire and we may be unable to renew them. For instance, Star VATS, our VIE, had obtained a License for Operating Value-Added Telecommunications Services (Type 2), which expired in November 2009, and which has not been renewed, and ZXJ’s License for Operating Value-Added Telecommunications Services (Type 2) expires in September 2015. If these licenses and approvals expire and we are unable to renew them, our continuing VATS services may not be in compliance with PRC law and we may be forced to suspend VATS activities. In addition, as part of the contractual arrangements, the shareholders of our VIEs agreed to pledge their respective shares in our VIEs to certain of our subsidiaries. Pursuant to a regulation in China known as the Provisions for Changes of Investors’ Equity in Foreign Invested Enterprises, a pledge of the equity interests of a foreign-invested enterprise will only be effective after obtaining approval from and registering with the relevant governmental authorities. Furthermore, under the PRC Property Rights Law, effective in October 2007, a pledge is created only after registration with the local branch of the Administration for Industry and Commerce in China. The pledges of the equity interests in our VIEs have been registered with the relevant governmental authorities in China. There are, however, substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of current and future PRC laws and regulations, including regulations governing the validity and enforcement of such contractual arrangements. Accordingly, China government authorities may ultimately conclude that our contractual arrangements do not comply with PRC laws. If we or any of our contractual arrangements are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations concerning the VATS businesses, the relevant PRC regulatory authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations, including: • revoking the business licenses of our subsidiaries in China; • discontinuing or restricting our PRC subsidiaries’ operations; • imposing conditions or requirements with which we or our PRC subsidiaries may not be able to comply; or • requiring us or our PRC subsidiaries to restructure the relevant ownership structure or operations. The imposition of any of these penalties could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. The principal shareholders and directors of our VIEs may have potential conflicts of interest with us, which may adversely affect our business. We offer our value-added telecommunications services in China through our VIEs, primarily through ZXJ, which are partially owned by certain of our employees. Conflicts of interests between their duties to us and to the VIE may arise. When conflicts of interest arise, these persons may not act in the best interests of our company or resolve such conflicts in our favor. In addition, these persons or their heirs or other successors may breach or cause our VIEs to breach or refuse to renew the existing contractual arrangements that allow us to effectively control our VIEs and to receive economic benefits from them. Other than relying on the duties of loyalty owed to us by the shareholders of our VIEs who are also our officers, and the contractual arrangements with the shareholders of our VIEs, we currently do not have any measure or policy to address these potential conflicts of interest. In the event of any disputes regarding the contractual arrangements, we would have to rely on legal remedies under PRC law. These remedies may not always be effective, particularly in light of uncertainties in the PRC legal system. If we cannot resolve any conflicts of interest or disputes between us and the shareholders of our VIEs, we would have to rely on legal proceedings, the outcome of which may be uncertain and which could be disruptive to our business. 25 Table of Contents Our contractual arrangements with our VIEs may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct ownership of these affiliated entities and may be difficult to enforce. We rely on contractual arrangements with our VIEs to operate our value-added telecommunications services businesses. These contractual arrangements, which require our VIEs to pay service and licensing fees to our subsidiaries in China, are currently the means by which we could receive economic benefits from these affiliated companies. In the future, we expect to continue to obtain economic benefits from our VIEs through these contractual arrangements. These contractual arrangements may not be as effective as direct ownership of these affiliated entities. For example, these affiliated entities and their respective shareholders could fail to perform or make payments as required under such contractual arrangements. In such event, we would have to rely on the PRC legal system to enforce these agreements. Any legal proceedings would be uncertain as to outcome and could result in the disruption of our business, damage to our reputation, diversion of our resources and the incurrence of substantial costs. In addition, in the event we are unable to so extend our contractual arrangements, we may fail to obtain the requisite license to conduct certain our VATS businesses in China and may be required to temporarily suspend related business activities. Contractual arrangements we have entered into between our subsidiaries and VIEs may be subject to scrutiny by China tax authorities, and a finding that we or VIEs owe additional taxes or are ineligible for our preferential tax treatment, or both, could substantially increase our taxes owed, or could materially reduce our profits and the value of your investment. Under PRC law, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be audited or challenged by the tax authorities in PRC. If any of the transactions between our subsidiaries and VIEs are found to not have been entered into on an arm’s-length basis, or to result in an unreasonable reduction in tax under PRC law, the tax authorities in China have the authority to disallow our tax savings, adjust the profits and losses of our respective Chinese entities and assess late payment interest and penalties. A finding by the tax authorities in China that we are ineligible for certain tax savings, or that any of our subsidiaries or VIEs is ineligible for their preferential tax treatment, could increase our taxes owed and reduce our profits and the value of your investment. Regulations relating to acquisitions of Chinese companies by foreign entities may limit our ability to acquire Chinese companies and adversely affect the implementation of our acquisition strategy and any failure by our stockholders who are Chinese residents to make or obtain any required registrations pursuant to such regulations may subject us to legal sanctions. In October 2005, SAFE issued Circular 75, which sets forth a regulatory framework for the foreign exchange matters in relation to the use of an “offshore special purpose company” by PRC residents to seek offshore equity financing and conduct “round-trip” investments or acquisitions in China. Among other things, Circular 75 provides that if a round-trip investment in a PRC company by an offshore special purpose company controlled by PRC residents occurred prior to November 1, 2005 when Circular 75 became effective, the PRC resident shareholders were required to submit a registration form to the local SAFE branch to register their ownership interests in the offshore special purpose company prior to March 31, 2006. Circular 75 also provides that, prior to establishing or assuming control of an offshore special purpose company for the purpose of obtaining financing for that offshore special purpose company using the assets or equity interests in an onshore enterprise in the PRC, each PRC resident or passport holder who is an ultimate controller of such offshore special purpose company, whether an individual or a legal entity, must complete the overseas investment foreign exchange registration procedures with the relevant local SAFE branch. Such PRC residents must also amend the registration form if there is a material event in the offshore special purpose company, such as, among other things, a change in share capital, a transfer of shares, or if such company is involved in a merger, acquisition or spin-off transaction or uses its assets in China to guarantee offshore obligations. SAFE has further issued a series of implementation guidance, including the most recent Circular 75 Operation Instruction, which took effect in July 2011, which stipulates the application documents that should be submitted to the local SAFE branch and the 26 Table of Contents approval principle adopted by the local SAFE branch. In the past, we have acquired a number of assets from, or equity interests in, PRC companies. However, there is substantial uncertainty as to whether we would be considered an “offshore special purpose company” for purposes of Circular 75, and, at present, it is unclear whether Circular 75 requires a company such as ours to register. We have in any event requested our stockholders who are PRC residents to make the necessary applications, filings and amendments as required under Circular 75 and other related regulations, including without limitation any and all implementation rules of Circular 75. We will attempt to comply, and attempt to ensure that all of our stockholders subject to these rules comply, with the relevant requirements. However, all of our PRC-resident stockholders may not comply with such requirements. Any failure to comply with the relevant requirements may result in restrictions on certain of our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends and other distributions, such as proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to us and our ability to increase our investment in those subsidiaries and could subject the relevant PRC resident to fines or sanctions imposed by the PRC government. Circular 75 and the related regulations are relatively new and it is uncertain how these regulations will be interpreted, implemented or enforced. We cannot predict how these regulations will affect our future acquisition strategies and business operations. For example, if we decide to acquire additional PRC companies, we or the owners of such companies may not be able to complete the filings and registrations, if any, required by Circular 75 and related regulations. Under Circular 75, failure to comply with the registration procedures set forth thereunder may result in the imposition of restrictions on the foreign exchange activities of the relevant onshore company, including the payment of dividends and other distributions to its offshore parent or affiliate and the capital inflow from the offshore entity, and may also subject relevant PRC residents to penalties under PRC foreign exchange administration regulations. Any such restrictions or penalties may restrict our ability to implement an acquisition strategy and could adversely affect our business and prospects. In August 2006, six PRC regulatory authorities, including MOFCOM and the CSRC, jointly promulgated the M&A Rules, which became effective in September 2006 and were subsequently amended in June 2009 by MOFCOM. The M&A Rules established additional procedures and requirements that make merger and acquisition activities by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including, in some circumstances, advance notice to MOFCOM of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise or a foreign company with substantial PRC operations, if certain thresholds under the Provisions on Thresholds for Prior Notification of Concentrations of Undertakings, issued by the State Council in August 2008, are triggered. In addition, MOFCOM issued Implementing Rules Concerning Security Review on the Mergers and Acquisitions by Foreign Investors of Domestic Enterprises in August 2011, which provides that mergers and acquisitions by foreign investors involved in an industry related to national security are subject to strict review by MOFCOM. These rules also prohibit any activities attempting to bypass such security review, including by structuring the transaction through proxy or contractual control arrangements. We believe that our business is not in an industry related to national security. However, it is possible that MOFCOM or other government agencies may publish interpretations contrary to our understanding or broaden the scope of such security review in the future, in which case our future acquisitions in the PRC may be closely scrutinized or prohibited. Compliance with these requirements to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any related approval processes, including obtaining approval from MOFCOM and going through security review procedures, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete acquisitions of domestic PRC companies, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. Furthermore, in August 2008, SAFE issued Circular 142, regulating the conversion by a foreign-invested company of foreign currency registered capital into RMB by restricting the uses for the converted RMB. Circular 142 requires that the RMB capital converted from foreign currency registered capital of a foreign-invested company may only be used pursuant to the purposes set forth in the foreign-invested company’s business scope as approved by the applicable governmental authority. Such registered capital may not be used for equity investments within the PRC, unless specifically provided otherwise. In addition, SAFE strengthened its oversight of the flow and use of the RMB fund converted from foreign currency registered capital of a foreign-invested company. The use of such RMB may not be changed without SAFE’s approval, and may not be used to repay 27 Table of Contents RMB loans if the proceeds of such loans have not yet been used. Moreover, SAFE promulgated a Circular No. 59 in November 2010, which requires that government authorities closely examine the authenticity of settlement of net proceeds from offshore offerings and the net proceeds be settled in the manner described in the offering documents. SAFE also promulgated Circular 45 in November 2011, which, among other things, restricts a foreign-invested enterprise from using RMB converted from its registered capital to provide entrusted loans or repay entrusted loans between non-financial enterprises. Violations of these circulars may result in severe penalties, including significant fines. As a result, Circular 142, Circular 59 and Circular 45 may significantly limit our ability to invest in or acquire other PRC companies using the RMB capital converted from foreign currency registered capital of our PRC subsidiaries and the net proceeds from offshore offerings, which could adversely affect our ability to expand our business. We have recorded non-cash impairment charges to net income in 2011, and we may be required to record additional significant charges to earnings from the declines in fair value of our marketable securities if such declines become other than temporary. Our short-term investment policy and strategy attempt primarily to preserve capital and meet our liquidity requirements. Our marketable securities are classified as available-for-sale securities in short-term investments and are reported at fair value with net unrealized losses recognized as accumulated other comprehensive income in stockholders’ equity, unless there is a decline in fair value below cost that we consider to be other than temporary, in which case the amount of the decline would be recognized as a loss and reflected in our statements of operations. We review our short-term investments to determine whether any differences between cost and fair value are other-than-temporary impairment in accordance with authoritative accounting guidance. We review long-term investments for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of such investments may no longer be recoverable. As of December 31, 2012, we did not recognize non-cash impairment charges to net income related to our short-term or long-term investments. However, as of December 31, 2011, we recognized a $0.1 million non-cash impairment charge to net income related to our short-term investments in certain stock funds and a $1.0 million impairment on long-term investments, representing the decline in fair value of our 9.5% equity stake in Santen Corporation, a Cayman Islands company, which, through its subsidiaries in China, provides a form of value-added telecommunication services to telecommunications carriers in China. We might incur such non-cash impairment charges in the future and the amount might be significant. If factors arise that would require us to account for additional declines as other than temporary or if we are unable to hold investments until the carrying value of such investments is recovered, we may need to recognize such declines as additional realized losses with a charge to income, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. We may be subject to fines and legal sanctions if we or our employees who are PRC citizens fail to comply with recent PRC regulations relating to employee stock options granted by overseas listed companies to PRC citizens. In March 2007, SAFE issued the Application Procedure for Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Holding Plans or Stock Option Plans of Overseas Listed Companies, also known as “Circular 78.” Under Circular 78, PRC individuals who participate in an employee stock option holding plan or a stock option plan of an overseas listed company are required, through a PRC domestic agent or PRC subsidiary of the overseas listed company, to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures. We and our Chinese employees who have been granted restricted stock or stock options pursuant to our stock incentive plans are subject to Circular 78 because we are an overseas listed company. However, in practice, significant uncertainties exist with respect to the interpretation and implementation of Circular 78. We intend to 28 Table of Contents submit the application for registration of our employee stock incentive plan as soon as possible. We or our Chinese employees may not be able to comply with, qualify under, or obtain any registration required by Circular 78. If we or our Chinese employees fail to comply with the provisions of Circular 78, we or they may be subject to fines and legal sanctions imposed by SAFE or other PRC governmental authorities, which could result in a material and adverse effect to our business operations and employee stock incentive plans. We are highly dependent on our executive officers. Each of our executive officers is responsible for an important sector of our operations. Although we believe that we have significant depth at all levels of management, the loss of any of our executive officers’ services could be detrimental to our operations. We do not have, and do not plan to obtain, “key man” life insurance on any of our officers. Our business could suffer if our executives and directors compete against us and our non-competition agreements with them cannot be enforced. If any of our management or key personnel joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose customers, suppliers, know-how and key professionals and staff members. Each of our executive officers has entered into employment agreements and confidentiality and non-competition agreements with us. However, if any dispute arises between our officers and us, the non-competition provisions contained in their confidentiality and non-competition agreements may not be enforceable, especially in China, where most of these executive officers and key employees reside, on the ground that we have not provided adequate compensation to these executive officers for their non-competition obligations, which is required under the relevant PRC regulations. We may be unable to effectively execute projects, maintain, expand or renew existing customer engagements and acquire new customers if we fail to attract, train, motivate and retain quality employees who can effectively perform the services offered by us. We depend on highly skilled employees, such as engineers, to effectively develop and deliver our solutions and services. The growth of our business could be limited by our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain these individuals. The market for qualified and experienced engineers throughout China is highly competitive, particularly in the areas of software programming and system engineering. We may be unable to retain our current workforce or hire additional personnel as planned. The quality of research and development and our services requires that our engineers not only be conversant in software but also that they possess extensive industry knowledge and expertise. If we cannot hire a sufficient number of quality employees, or fail to provide appropriate training, career opportunities and otherwise motivate and retain our employees, or if our employees fail to acquire the appropriate industry knowledge and expertise or adapt quickly to changing industry and technological trends, we may not be able to execute our strategies and our business and prospects could suffer. Increases in wages for software design, engineering, sales and marketing and management personnel will increase our net cash outflow and our gross margin and profit margin may decline. Historically, wages for comparably skilled technical and management personnel in the telecommunications software solutions industry in China have been lower than in developed countries, such as in the U.S. or Europe. In recent years, wages in China’s software industry have increased and may continue to increase at faster rates. Wage increases will increase our cost of our products and services of the same quality and increase our cost of operations. As a result, our gross margin and profit margin may decline. In the long term, unless offset by increases in efficiency and productivity of our work force, wage increases may also result in increased prices for our solutions and services, making us potentially less competitive. Increases in wages, including an increase in the cash component of our compensation expenses, will increase our net cash outflow and our gross margin and profit margin may decline. 29 Table of Contents We extend warranties to our customers that expose us to potential liabilities. We customarily provide our customers with one to three year warranties, which cover third-party hardware and software products. Although we seek to arrange back-to-back warranties with hardware and software vendors, we have the primary responsibility with respect to their warranties. Our contracts often lack disclaimers or limitations on liability for special, consequential and incidental damages, nor do we typically cap the amounts our customers can recover for damages. In addition, we do not currently purchase any insurance policy with respect to our exposure to warranty claims. The failure of our installed projects to operate properly could give rise to substantial liability for special, consequential or incidental damages, which in turn could materially and adversely affect us. We sell our services on a fixed-price, fixed-time basis, which exposes us to risks associated with cost overruns and delays. We sell most of our services on a fixed-price, fixed-time basis. In contracts with our customers, we typically agree to pay late completion fines of up to 5% of the total contract value. In large scale telecommunications infrastructure projects, there are many factors beyond our control which could cause delays or cost overruns. In this event, we would be exposed to cost overruns and liability for late completion fines. We may become less competitive if we are unable to develop or acquire new products, or enhancements to our existing products, that are marketable on a timely and cost-effective basis. Our future operating results will depend, to a significant extent, upon our ability to enhance our existing products and services and to introduce new products and services to meet the requirements of our customers in a rapidly developing and evolving market. If we do not enhance our existing products and services or introduce new successful products and services in a timely manner, our products and services may become obsolete, and our revenues and operating results may suffer. Moreover, unexpected technical, operational, distribution or other problems could delay or prevent the introduction of any products or services that we may plan to introduce in the future. We cannot be sure that any of these products or services will achieve widespread market acceptance or generate incremental revenues. Our proprietary rights may be inadequately protected and there is a risk of poor enforcement of intellectual property rights in China. Our success and ability to compete depend substantially upon our intellectual property, which we protect through a combination of confidentiality arrangements and copyright, trademark, and patent registrations. We have registered several marks and filed many other trademark applications in the U.S., China, Hong Kong, European Union, Thailand, Malaysia, Singapore, Australia and Japan. We have also registered copyrights in China with respect to certain of our software products, although we have not applied for copyright protection elsewhere, including in the U.S. We have been granted numerous patents and have filed many other patent applications in China for hardware and software products used or developed in our business. We have been granted one patent in the U.S., and have not applied for patent protection elsewhere. We enter into confidentiality agreements with most of our employees and consultants, and control access to, and distribution of, our documentation and other licensed information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology without authorization, or to develop similar technology independently. Since the Chinese legal system in general and the intellectual property regime in particular, are relatively weak, it is often difficult to enforce intellectual property rights in China. In addition, there are other countries where effective copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited. Policing unauthorized use of our licensed technology is difficult and the steps we take may not prevent misappropriation or infringement of our proprietary technology. In addition, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. 30 Table of Contents A portion of our business involves the development and customization of software applications for customers. We generally retain significant ownership or rights to use and market such software for other customer projects, where possible. However, our customers sometimes retain co-ownership and rights to use the applications, processes, and intellectual property so developed. In some cases, we may have no right or only limited rights to reuse or provide these developments to projects involving other customers. To the extent that we are unable to negotiate contracts which permit us to reuse source-codes and methodologies, or to the extent that we have conflicts with our customers regarding our ability to do so, we may be unable to provide similar solutions to our other customers. We are exposed to certain business and litigation risks with respect to technology rights held by third parties. We currently license technology from third parties and intend to do so increasingly in the future as we introduce services that require new technology. These technology licenses may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Our inability to obtain any of these licenses could delay or compromise our ability to introduce new services. In addition, we may or may allegedly breach the technology rights of others and incur legal expenses and damages, which could be substantial. Our computer networks may be vulnerable to security risks that could disrupt our services and adversely affect our results of operations. Our computer networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer hackers, computer viruses and other security problems caused by unauthorized access to, or improper use of, systems by third parties or employees. A hacker who circumvents security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in operations. Computer attacks or disruptions may jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through computer systems of our customers. Actual or perceived concerns that our systems may be vulnerable to such attacks or disruptions may deter telecommunications carriers and consumers from using our solutions or services. As a result, we may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of these security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Investors may not be able to enforce judgments entered by United States courts against certain of our officers and directors. We are incorporated in the State of Delaware. However, a majority of our directors and executive officers, and certain of our principal stockholders, live outside of the U.S., principally in China and Hong Kong. As a result, you may not be able to: • effect service of process upon those persons within the U.S.; or • enforce against those persons judgments obtained in United States courts, including judgments relating to the federal securities laws of the U.S. The fact that our business is conducted in U.S. dollars and RMB, and we expect will be conducted in certain Southeast Asian currencies, may subject us to currency exchange rate risk due to fluctuations in the exchange rate between such currencies. In July 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the RMB to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the RMB is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies, including the U.S. dollar. The PRC government may decide to adopt an even more flexible currency policy in the future, which could result in further and more significant appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar. A majority of our revenues and expenses relating to hardware, software and service components of our business are denominated in RMB. The value of our shares will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between 31 Table of Contents U.S. dollars and RMB because the value of our business is effectively denominated in RMB, while our shares are traded in U.S. dollars. Furthermore, an increase in the value of the RMB may require us to exchange more U.S. dollars into RMB in order to meet the working capital requirements of our subsidiaries in China. In addition, as we pursue our global strategy, we have to settle transactions denominated in various currencies of Southeast Asian countries and expect to continue to do so in future, which may create similar foreign exchange risk associated with the currencies of these jurisdictions. Depreciation of the value of the U.S. dollar will also reduce the value of the cash we hold in U.S. dollars, which we may use for purposes of future acquisitions or other business expansion. We use U.S. dollars as our reporting and functional currency. The financial records of our Chinese subsidiaries and VIEs are maintained in RMB, their functional currency, and our subsidiaries and VIEs in Southeast Asia maintain their financial records in the currencies of their local jurisdiction. Their assets and liabilities are translated into U.S. dollars based on the rates of exchange existing on the balance sheet date. Their statements of operations are translated using a weighted average rate for the period. Foreign currency translation adjustments are reflected as accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in stockholders’ equity. Fluctuation in exchange rates might result in significant foreign currency translation adjustments. We reported foreign currency translation adjustments of $0.6 million, $17.3 million and $9.2 million in other comprehensive income in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The markets in which we sell our services and products are competitive and we may not be able to compete effectively. The telecommunications software market is a highly competitive environment. Our competitors within China include local companies such as Digital China, Huawei, Neusoft and ZTE. We believe that we have competitive advantages in our product and service sectors due to our leading BSS/OSS solutions, comprehensive and scalable product and service offerings, customer-centric and cost effective project management capability, and established customer relationships. However, our competitors, many of whom have greater financial, technical and human resources than we have, may be able to respond more quickly to new and emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of new products or services. It is possible that competition in the form of new competitors or alliances, joint ventures or consolidation among existing competitors may decrease our market share. Increased competition could result in lower personnel utilization rates, billing rate reductions, fewer customer engagements, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, any one of which could materially and adversely affect our profits and overall financial condition. The global telecommunications software market is highly competitive. Our competitors include Amdocs, Convergys, Comverse, Huawei, and ZTE along with other international players. We believe our core competency will be able to lead us in our expansion in the international telecommunications software and services. Our global competitors may have greater financial, technical, human resources and have entered into the respective markets much earlier than us, and may be able to respond more quickly to new and emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of new products or services. It is possible that our limited exposure in the global telecommunication software market might impede our further expansion. China’s cable TV industry is currently fragmented with over two thousand cable TV operators and many more software and service providers whom we compete with. Our subsidiary Hangzhou Zhongbo Software Technology Co., Ltd., or Hangzhou Zhongbo is able to provide high quality software and services to China’s cable TV operators. As the industry is being consolidated into a headquarter level and 31 provincial level entities, we will seek to gain customers as an industry consolidator. 32 Table of Contents High technology and emerging market shares have historically experienced extreme volatility and may subject you to losses. The trading price of our shares may be subject to significant market volatility due to investor perceptions of investments relating to China and Asia, as well as developments in the telecommunications industry. In addition, the high technology sector of the stock market frequently experiences extreme price and volume fluctuations, which have particularly affected the market prices of many software companies and which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of those companies. We may become subject to securities litigation, which is expensive and could result in a diversion of resources. In the past, periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities have often been followed by the institution of securities class action litigation against that company. Many companies in our industry have been subject to this type of litigation in the past. We were involved in securities class action litigation as a result of allegedly improper allocation procedures relating to the sale of our common stock in connection with our initial public offering in March 2000, which was settled in January 2012. Moreover, we are currently involved in a litigation alleging short-swing trading by the underwriters of our initial public offering. Although we do not expect these actions to have a material effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, litigation is often expensive, diverts management’s attention and resources, and could materially and adversely affect our business. A significant number of shares of our common stock are or will be eligible for sale in the open market, which could drive down the market price for our common stock and make it difficult for us to raise capital. As of December 31, 2012, 72,699,318 shares of our common stock were outstanding, and there were approximately 6,847,806 shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of outstanding stock options and vesting of outstanding restricted stock units. Sales of a large number of shares by our stockholders could materially decrease the market price of our common stock and make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital through the sale of equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. Our stockholders may experience substantial dilution if we raise additional funds through the sale of equity securities. The issuance of a large number of additional shares of our common stock upon the exercise of outstanding options or in an equity financing transaction could cause a decline in the market price of our common stock due to the sale of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market, or the perception that these sales could occur. The risk of dilution and the resulting downward pressure on our stock price could also encourage investors to engage in short sales of our common stock. By increasing the number of shares offered for sale, material amounts of short selling could further contribute to progressive price declines in our common stock. We are subject to anti-takeover provisions that could prevent a change of control and prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium on their common stock. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of our preferred stock. Without any further vote or action on the part of our stockholders, our board of directors has the authority to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of the preferred stock. This preferred stock, if it is ever issued, may have preference over and harm the rights of the holders of our common stock. Although the issuance of this preferred stock will provide us with flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, such an issuance may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. We currently have authorized the size of our board of directors to be not less than three or more than ten directors. The terms of the office of our current board of directors have been divided into three classes: Class I, 33 Table of Contents whose term will expire at the annual meeting of the stockholders to be held in 2015; Class II will expire at the annual meeting of the stockholders to be held in 2013 and Class III, whose term will expire at the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2014. This classification of the board of directors may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in our control or management. We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. In general, the statute prohibits a publicly-held Delaware corporation from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years after the date when the person became an interested stockholder unless, subject to certain exceptions, the business combination or the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder is approved in a prescribed manner. Generally, a “business combination” includes a merger, asset or stock sale, or other transaction resulting in a financial benefit to the stockholder; and an “interested stockholder” includes any person that owns 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or that is our affiliate or associate. Our change-of-control severance agreements with executive officers may discourage a change of control. We have entered into change-of-control severance agreements with most of our executive officers. These agreements provide, among other things, that the executive officers would be entitled to various benefits upon the occurrence of a covered termination which occurs within one year after a change of control, including payment of all accrued and unpaid salary, bonus, reimbursable expenses, vacation and employee benefits, immediate vesting of 50%, or 100% in the case of Steve Zhang, our President and Chief Executive Officer, of any outstanding unvested stock options held by the executive officer and the provision of medical benefits and housing allowance. If a change of control occurs, and regardless of whether a covered termination takes place, the executive officers may be entitled to accelerated vesting of 50% of any outstanding unvested stock options held by the executive officer. The potential obligations to pay executive officers such severance amounts may discourage a potential acquirer from effecting a change of control. Failure to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits U.S. companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices may occur in China. Our employees or other agents may engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences, including adverse publicity and damage to our reputation that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to potential liabilities and anticipate recurring costs in complying with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We are subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Act. Among other things, the Act imposes corporate governance, reporting, and disclosure requirements; introduces stricter independence and financial expertise standards for audit committees; and sets stiff penalties for securities fraud. The Act and the related rules and regulations have increased the scope, complexity and costs of our corporate governance, reporting, and disclosure practices, and may increase the risk of personal liability for our directors, chief executive officer, and chief financial officer. Any such liabilities may adversely affect our reputation, our business, or our ability to meet listing criteria. Section 404 of the Act requires our management and our independent registered public accounting firm to assess our internal controls over financial reporting on an annual basis. During the course of this evaluation, documentation and attestation, we may identify deficiencies that we may not be able to remedy. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal controls, on an ongoing basis, over financial reporting in accordance with the Act. Moreover, effective internal 34 Table of Contents controls over financial reporting, particularly those related to revenue recognition, are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent or detect fraud. Any failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our common stock. The audit reports included in our annual report are prepared by auditors who are not inspected by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and, as such, you are deprived of any benefits of such inspection. Our independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the SEC, as auditors of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or the PCAOB, is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because our auditors are located in the PRC, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of Chinese authorities, our auditors are not currently inspected by the PCAOB. Inspections of other firms that the PCAOB has conducted outside China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. This lack of PCAOB inspections in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating our auditor’s audits and its quality control procedures. As a result, investors may be deprived of any benefits of PCAOB inspections. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of auditors in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors outside of China that are subject to PCAOB inspections. As a result, investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements, which may have an adverse effect on our stock price. We are exposed to certain tax risks in China under the new Enterprise Income Tax Law of the PRC. The Enterprise Income Tax Law of the PRC, or the EIT Law, which took effect on January 1, 2008, has applied a uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate to all “resident enterprises” in China, including foreign invested enterprises, or FIEs. Moreover, the EIT Law applies to enterprises established outside of China with “de facto management bodies” located in China. Under the implementation regulations to the EIT Law issued by the PRC State Council, “de facto management body” is defined as a body that has material and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel and human resources, finances and treasury, and acquisition and disposition of properties and other assets of an enterprise. While we do not believe we are a “resident enterprise,” because ambiguities exist with the interpretation and application of the EIT Law and the implementation regulations, we may be considered a PRC resident enterprise and therefore may be subject to the China enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on certain of our income. Certain of our subsidiaries in China are likely to continue to enjoy preferential tax rates, as they have been qualified as High-and-New-Technology Enterprises, or HNTEs, or have previously been qualified as Key Software Enterprises under the EIT Law. The qualification of our subsidiaries as Key Software Enterprises may not be renewed and the qualification of our subsidiaries as HNTEs may be challenged, revoked or rejected by tax authority in the future, which would result in the loss of the preferential tax rate enjoyed as a result of such qualifications and would have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition and results of operations. Dividends payable by us to our non-PRC stockholders, and gains on the sales of our common stock, may be subject to withholding taxes under PRC tax laws, which may negatively impact the value of your investment. The prevailing PRC tax law and regulations provide that a 10% withholding tax will normally be applicable on dividends payable to non-PRC stockholders which are derived from sources within the PRC, unless otherwise 35 Table of Contents exempted or reduced by tax treaties or similar arrangements. Any gains realized on the transfer of shares by such stockholders may also be subject to a 10% withholding tax if such gains are regarded as income derived from sources within the PRC. The dividends we pay with respect to our common stock, or the gain our non-PRC stockholders may realize from the transfer of our common stock, may be treated as PRC-sourced income and may therefore be subject to a 10% PRC withholding tax. However, ambiguities exist in the prevailing PRC tax legislations with respect to the interpretation and identification of PRC-sourced income, as well as how to tax the gain realized from the transfer of common stock on a foreign stock exchange. If we are required under the prevailing PRC tax law and regulations to withhold PRC income tax on dividends payable to our non-PRC stockholders, or if non-PRC stockholders are required to pay PRC income tax on gains on the transfer of their shares of common stock, the value of their investments may be negatively affected. We may undertake foreign or domestic acquisitions, investments, joint ventures or other strategic alliances, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. In addition, such undertakings may not be successful. Our strategy includes plans to grow both organically and through acquisitions, participation in joint ventures or other strategic alliances. Such growth may include expansion outside of China and into cable and other markets besides our traditional telecommunication market. For instance, as of January 31, 2013, we are in the progress of providing our telecommunications solutions to customers in Malaysia, Cambodia, and Nepal, and we also have customers in China’s cable TV industry, such as, Jiangsu Cable, Chongqing Cable, China DB Star, Oriental Cable Network (Shanghai), Hainan Cable Gehua Cable (Beijing). Joint ventures and strategic alliances may expose us to new operational, regulatory and market risks, as well as risks associated with additional capital requirements. These risks can be particularly pronounced when entering into new geographic or vertical markets in which we have less experience. In addition, we may not be able to identify suitable future acquisition candidates or joint venture or alliance partners. Even if we identify suitable candidates or partners, we may be unable to complete an acquisition, joint venture or alliance on terms commercially acceptable to us. If we fail to identify appropriate candidates or partners, or complete desired acquisitions, we may not be able to implement our strategies effectively or efficiently. In addition, our ability to successfully integrate acquired companies and their operations may be adversely affected by a number of factors. These factors include: • diversion of management’s attention; • difficulties in retaining customers of the acquired companies; • difficulties in retaining personnel of the acquired companies; • entry into unfamiliar markets, such as international markets or vertical markets in which we have not previously operated; • unanticipated problems or legal liabilities; and • tax and accounting issues. If we fail to integrate acquired companies efficiently, our earnings, revenues growth and business could be negatively affected. Furthermore, the acquired companies may not perform to our expectations for various reasons, including legislative or regulatory changes that affect the products or services in which the acquired companies specialize, and the loss of key customers and personnel. If we are not able to realize the benefits envisioned for such acquisitions, joint ventures or other strategic alliances, our overall profitability and growth plans may be adversely affected. Our international expansion efforts, particularly in Southeast Asia, may face political, economic, legal, social, management and customer risks that could harm our business. An important part of our business strategy is to pursue global market opportunities. Although a small percentage of our business today, we have entered into a number of agreements to provide our software solutions 36 Table of Contents in the Southeast Asia region and believe this region will present additional opportunities in future. However, expanding into this region presents a number of risks. Many countries in Southeast Asia are emerging markets and are subject to greater political, economic, legal, and social risks than more developed markets, including risks relating to: • political and governmental instability, including domestic political conflicts and inability to maintain consensus; • economic instability, including weak banking systems, inflation and currency risk, lack of capital, and changing or inconsistent economic policy; • weaknesses in legal systems, including inconsistent or uncertain national and local regimes, unavailability of judicial or administrative guidance, and inexperience; • tax uncertainty, including tax law changes, limited tax guidance, and difficulty determining tax liability or planning tax-efficient structures; • unreliability of official government statistics or reports; • import/export, foreign exchange, and other trade-related matters; • organized crime, political corruption, money laundering and other crime; and • cultural and language differences. In addition, there are numerous operational risks associated with our doing business outside of China, particularly in Southeast Asia. In many countries in Southeast Asia, it is difficult to recruit, employ and retain qualified personnel to manage and oversee our local operations, sales and other activities. It may also be difficult for our executive officers who reside in the PRC to effectively oversee the day-to-day management of our operations in these countries. Furthermore, there may be many established incumbent players in these markets who already enjoy a significant presence, and it may be difficult for us to win market share from them or to overcome local barriers of entry for foreign competitors. Moreover, we have less experience dealing with customers in emerging Southeast Asian markets, including assessing customer creditworthiness and managing collections and accounts receivable, which together with the economic instability in the region may result in increased allowances for doubtful accounts. Any of these risks may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Asset impairment reviews may result in future write-downs. Our accounting policies require us, among other things, to conduct annual reviews of goodwill, and to test intangible assets and goodwill for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable. Various testing approaches are permissible under GAAP but may lead to materially different outcomes depending on the assumptions used, which are inherently uncertain and subjective. In connection with our business acquisitions, we make assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and other factors to determine the fair value of goodwill and intangible assets. In assessing the related useful lives of those assets, we have to make assumptions regarding their fair value, our recoverability of those assets and our ability to successfully develop and ultimately commercialize acquired technology. If those assumptions change in the future when we conduct our periodic reviews in accordance with applicable accounting standards, we may be required to record impairment charges. It is possible that future reviews will result in further write-downs of goodwill and other intangible assets. In addition, our stock price has significantly declined in recent years, which might increase the possibility of goodwill impairment. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have not received any material comments from the SEC staff more than 180 days before the end of 2012 regarding our periodic or current reports that remained unresolved at the date hereof. 37 Table of Contents 