Item 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider each of the risks and uncertainties described in this section and all of the other information in this document before deciding to invest in our common stock. Any of the risk factors we describe below could severely harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The market price of our common stock could decline if any of these risks or uncertainties develops into actual events. You may lose all or part of the money you pay to buy our common stock. We depend heavily upon sources of human tissue, and any failure to obtain tissue from these sources in a timely manner will interfere with our ability to process and distribute allografts. 14 Table of Contents The supply of human tissue has at times limited our growth, and may not be sufficient to meet our future needs. In addition, due to seasonal changes in mortality rates, some scarce tissues that we currently use for allografts are at times in particularly short supply. Other factors, some of which are unpredictable, such as negative publicity and regulatory actions in the industry in which we operate also could unexpectedly reduce the available supply of tissue. We rely on donor recovery groups for their human tissue supplies and we have relationships with over thirty tissue donor recovery agencies across the country. We also have relationships outside the United States. Donor recovery groups are part of relatively complex relationships. They provide support to donor families, are regulated by the FDA, and are often affiliated with hospitals, universities or organ procurement organizations. Our relationships with donor recovery groups, which are critical to our supply of tissue, could be affected by relationships recovery groups have with other organizations. Any negative impact of the regulatory and disease transmission issues facing the industry, as well as the negative publicity that these issues create, could adversely affect our ability to negotiate contracts with recovery groups. We cannot be sure that the supply of human tissue will continue to be available at current levels or will be sufficient to meet our needs. If we are not able to obtain tissue from current sources sufficient to meet our needs, we may not be able to locate additional replacement sources of tissue on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Any interruption of our business caused by the need to locate additional sources of tissue would significantly impact our revenues. We expect that our revenues would decline in proportion to any decline in tissue supply. If we fail to maintain existing strategic relationships or are unable to identify distributors of our implants, revenues may decrease. We currently derive the majority of our revenues through our relationships with Medtronic, Zimmer, Davol, Stryker and Exactech. In addition, our spine partners provide nearly all of the instrumentation, surgeon training, distribution assistance and marketing materials for the lines of spinal allografts they distribute. Variations in the timing and volume of orders by Medtronic and Zimmer may have a material effect upon our revenues. If our relationships with Medtronic or Zimmer are terminated or reduced for any reason and we are unable to replace these relationships with other means of distribution, we would suffer a material decrease in revenues. We may need to obtain the assistance of additional distributors to market and distribute our new allografts and technologies, as well as to market and distribute our existing allografts and technologies to new markets or geographical areas. We may not be able to find additional distributors who will agree to and successfully market and distribute our allografts and technologies on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we are unable to establish additional distribution relationships on favorable terms, our revenues may decline. If adverse macro-economic conditions persist, our business and revenues could be adversely affected. We have been adversely affected by the current macro-economic conditions. If this slowdown continues or worsens, it could have a material adverse effect upon our business and future revenues. If third-party payors fail to provide appropriate levels of reimbursement for the use of our implants, revenues could be adversely affected. Political, economic and regulatory influences are subjecting the healthcare industry in the United States to fundamental change. In March 2010, President Obama signed the Affordable Care Act into law. The new law will result in sweeping changes across the health care industry. The primary goal of this comprehensive legislation is to extend health coverage to approximately 32 million uninsured legal U.S. residents through a combination of public program expansion and private sector health insurance reforms. To fund the expansion of 15 Table of Contents insurance coverage, the legislation contains measures designed to promote quality and cost efficiency in health care delivery and to generate budgetary savings in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. We are unable to predict the full impact of the Affordable Care Act at this time due to the law’s complexity and current lack of implementing regulations or interpretive guidance. However, we expect that several provisions of the Affordable Care Act could have a material effect on our business. Our revenues will largely depend on the reimbursement of patients’ medical expenses by government health care programs and private health insurers. Governments and private insurers closely examine medical procedures incorporating new technologies to determine whether the procedures will be covered by payment, and if so, the level of payment which may apply. We cannot be sure that third-party payors will continue to reimburse for our implants at the current levels. If we fail to maintain the high processing standards that implants require or if we are unable to develop processing capacity as required, our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated. Implants require careful calibration and precise, high-quality processing. Achieving precision and quality control will require skill and diligence by our personnel. If we fail to achieve and maintain these high processing standards, including avoiding processing errors, and, depending on the nature of the complaint, design defects or component failures; we would be forced to recall, withdraw or suspend distribution of our implants; our implants and technologies could fail quality assurance and performance tests; production and deliveries of our implants could be delayed or cancelled; and our processing costs could increase. Further, to be successful, we will need to manage our human tissue processing capacity related to tissue recovery and demand for our allografts. It may be difficult for us to match our processing capacity to demand due to problems related to the amount of suitable tissue, quality control and assurance, tissue availability, adequacy of control policies and procedures, and lack of skilled personnel. If we are unable to process and produce our implants on a timely basis, at acceptable quality and costs, and in sufficient quantities, or if we experience unanticipated technological problems or delays in processing, it will reduce revenues and increase our cost per allograft processed. Our allograft and xenograft implants and technologies could become subject to significantly greater regulation which could disrupt our business. The FDA and several states have statutory authority to regulate allograft processing, including our BioCleanse® and TUTOPLAST® processes, and allograft-based materials. The FDA could identify deficiencies in future inspections of our facilities or our suppliers or promulgate future regulatory rulings that could disrupt our business, reducing profitability. If any of our allografts fall under the FDA’s definitions of “more than minimally manipulated or indicated for non-homologous use,” we would be required to obtain medical device approval or clearance or biologics licenses, which could require clinical testing and could result in disapproval of our license applications and restricted distribution of any of our allografts which may become subject to pre-market approval. The FDA could require post-market testing and surveillance to monitor the effects of such allografts, could restrict the commercial applications of these allografts, and could conduct periodic inspections of our facilities and our suppliers. Delays encountered during the FDA approval process could shorten the patent protection period during which we have the exclusive right to commercialize such technologies or could allow others to come to market before us with similar technologies. FDA regulations of human cellular and tissue-based products, titled “Good Tissue Practices,” cover all stages of allograft processing, from procurement of tissue to distribution of final allografts. These regulations increased regulatory scrutiny within the industry in which we operate and have led to increased enforcement action which affects the conduct of our business. In addition, these regulations have a significant effect upon 16 Table of Contents recovery agencies which supply us with tissue and increase the cost of recovery activities. Any such increase would translate into increased costs, as we would expect to reimburse the recovery agencies based on their cost of recovery. Other regulatory entities include state agencies with statutes covering tissue banking. Regulations issued by Florida, New York, California and Maryland will be particularly relevant to our business. Most states do not currently have tissue banking regulations, but this status could change. It is possible that others may make allegations against us or against donor recovery groups or tissue banks, including those with which we have relationships, about non-compliance with applicable FDA regulations or other relevant statutes and regulations. Allegations like these could cause regulators or other authorities to take investigative or other action, or could cause negative publicity for our business and the industry in which we operate. Some of our implants contain tissue derived from animals, commonly referred to as xenografts. Xenograft implants are medical devices that are subject to pre-market approval or clearance by the FDA. We have received FDA clearance on several xenograft implants. However, we may not receive FDA approval or clearance to market new implants as we attempt to expand the quantity of xenograft implants available for distribution. The allograft industry is subject to additional local, state, federal and international government regulations and any increased regulations of our activities could significantly increase the cost of doing business, thereby reducing profitability. Some aspects of our business are subject to additional local, state, federal or international regulation. Changes in the laws or new interpretations of existing laws could negatively affect our business, revenues or prospects, and increase the costs associated with conducting our business. In particular, the procurement and transplantation of allograft tissue is subject to federal regulation under the National Organ Transplant Act, or NOTA, a criminal statute that prohibits the purchase and sale of human organs, including bone and other tissue. NOTA permits the payment of reasonable fees associated with the transportation, processing, preservation, quality control and storage of human tissue. If NOTA were amended or interpreted in a way that made us unable to include some of these costs in the amounts we charge our customers, it could reduce our revenues and therefore negatively impact our business. It is possible that more restrictive interpretations or expansions of NOTA could be adopted which could require us to change one or more aspects of our business, at a substantial cost, in order to continue to comply with this statute. A variety of additional local, state, federal and international government laws and regulations govern our business, including those relating to the storage, handling, generation, manufacture, disposal of medical wastes from the processing of tissue, and collaborations with health care professionals. If we fail to conduct our business in compliance with these laws and regulations, we could be subject to significant liabilities for which our insurance may not be adequate. Moreover, such insurance may not always be available in the future on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If our insurance proves to be inadequate to pay a damage award, we may not have sufficient funds to do so, which would harm our financial condition and liquidity. Our success depends on the continued acceptance of our allograft and xenograft implants and technologies by the medical community. New allograft and xenograft implants, technologies or enhancements to our existing implants may never achieve broad market acceptance, which can be affected by numerous factors, including lack of clinical acceptance of implants and technologies; introduction of competitive tissue repair treatment options which render implants and technologies too expensive or obsolete; lack of availability of third-party reimbursement; and difficulty training surgeons in the use of tissue implants and technologies. Market acceptance will also depend on our ability to demonstrate that our existing and new implants and technologies are an attractive alternative to existing tissue repair treatment options. Our ability to do so will 17 Table of Contents depend on surgeons’ evaluations of the clinical safety, efficacy, ease of use, reliability and cost-effectiveness of these tissue repair options and technologies. For example, we believe that some in the medical community have lingering concerns over the risk of disease transmission through the use of allografts. Furthermore, we believe that even if the medical community generally accepts our implants and technologies, acceptance and recommendations by influential surgeons will be important to their broad commercial success. If our implants and technologies are not broadly accepted in the marketplace, we may not achieve a competitive position in the market. Rapid technological changes could result in reduced demand for our implants. Technologies change rapidly in the industry in which we operate. For example, steady improvements have been made in synthetic human tissue substitutes which compete with our tissue implants. Unlike allografts, synthetic tissue technologies are not dependent on the availability of tissue. If one of our competitors successfully introduces synthetic technologies using recombinant technologies, which stimulate the growth of tissue surrounding an implant, it could result in a decline in demand for tissue implants. We may not be able to respond effectively to technological changes and emerging industry standards, or to successfully identify, develop or support new technologies or enhancements to existing implants in a timely and cost-effective manner, if at all. If we are unable to achieve the improvements in our implants necessary for their successful commercialization, the demand for our implants will suffer. We face intense competition, which could result in reduced acceptance and demand for our implants and technologies. The medical technology/biotechnology industry is intensely competitive. We compete with companies in the United States and internationally that engage in the development and production of medical technologies and processes including biotechnology, orthopedic, pharmaceutical, biomaterial and other companies; academic and scientific institutions; and public and private research organizations. Many of our competitors have much greater financial, technical, research, marketing, distribution, service and other resources than ours. Moreover, our competitors may offer a broader array of tissue repair treatment products and technologies or may have greater name recognition in the marketplace. For example, we compete with a number of divisions of Johnson & Johnson, a company with significantly greater resources and brand recognition than ours. Our competitors, including several development stage companies, may develop or market technologies that are more effective or commercially attractive than our technologies, or that may render our technologies obsolete. For example, the development of a synthetic tissue product that permits remodeling of bones could reduce the demand for allograft and xenograft-based products and technologies. If we do not manage the medical release of donor tissue into processing in an effective and efficient manner, it could adversely affect profitability. Many factors affect the level and timing of donor medical releases, including the effectiveness of donor screening performed by donor recovery groups, the timely receipt, recording and review of required medical documentation, and employee loss and turnover in our medical records department. We can provide no assurance that releases will occur at levels which maximize our processing efficiency and minimize our cost per allograft processed. Negative publicity concerning methods of human tissue recovery and screening of donor tissue in the industry in which we operate may reduce demand for our allografts and impact the supply of available donor tissue. Media reports or other negative publicity concerning both improper methods of tissue recovery from donors and disease transmission from donated tissue may limit widespread acceptance of our allografts. Unfavorable 18 Table of Contents reports of improper or illegal tissue recovery practices, both in the United States and internationally, as well as incidents of improperly processed tissue leading to transmission of disease, may broadly affect the rate of future tissue donation and market acceptance of allograft technologies. Potential patients may not be able to distinguish our allografts, technologies and the tissue recovery and the processing procedures from those of our competitors or others engaged in tissue recovery. In addition, families of potential donors may become reluctant to agree to donate tissue to for-profit tissue processors. If our patents and the other means we use to protect our intellectual property prove to be inadequate, our competitors could exploit our intellectual property to compete more effectively against us. The law of patents and trade secrets is constantly evolving and often involves complex legal and factual questions. The U.S. government may deny or significantly reduce the coverage we seek for our patent applications before or after a patent is issued. We cannot be sure that any particular patent for which we apply will be issued, that the scope of the patent protection will be comprehensive enough to provide adequate protection from competing technologies, that interference proceedings regarding any of our patent applications will not be filed, or that we will achieve any other competitive advantage from a patent. In addition, it is possible that one or more of our patents will be held invalid if challenged or that others will claim rights in or ownership of our patents and other proprietary rights. If any of these events occur, our competitors may be able to use our intellectual property to compete more effectively against us. Because patent applications are secret until patents are actually issued (or until 18 months after a patent application has been filed) and the publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature lags behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that our patent application was the first application filed covering a particular invention. If another party’s rights to an invention are superior to ours, we may not be able to obtain a license to use that party’s invention on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, our competitors, many of which have greater resources than ours, could obtain patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make use of our inventions either in the United States or in international markets. Further, the laws of some foreign countries do not always protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Litigation or regulatory proceedings in the United States or foreign countries also may be necessary to enforce our patent or other intellectual property rights or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of our competitors. These proceedings can be costly, result in development delays, and divert the attention of our management. We rely upon unpatented proprietary techniques and processes in tissue recovery, research and development, tissue processing and quality assurance. It is possible that others will independently develop technology similar to our technology or otherwise gain access to or disclose our proprietary technologies. We may not be able to meaningfully protect our rights in these proprietary technologies, which would reduce our ability to compete. Our success depends in part on our ability to operate without infringing on or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others, and if we are unable to do so we may be liable for damages. We cannot be certain that U.S. or foreign patents or patent applications of other companies do not exist or will not be issued that would prevent us from commercializing our allografts and technologies. Third parties may sue us for infringing or misappropriating their patent or other intellectual property rights. Intellectual property litigation is costly. If we do not prevail in litigation, in addition to any damages we might have to pay, we could be required to stop the infringing activity or obtain a license requiring us to make royalty payments. It is possible that a required license will not be available to us on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, a required license may be non-exclusive, and therefore our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license or are unable to design around another company’s patent, we may be unable to make use of some of the affected technologies or distribute the affected allografts, which would reduce our revenues. 19 Table of Contents The defense costs and settlements for patent infringement lawsuits are not covered by insurance. Patent infringement lawsuits can take years to settle. If we are not successful in our defenses or are not successful in obtaining dismissals of any such lawsuit, legal fees or settlement costs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. We or our competitors may be exposed to product or professional liability claims which could cause us to be liable for damages or cause investors to think we will be liable for similar claims in the future. The development of allografts and technologies for human tissue repair and treatment entails an inherent risk of product or professional liability claims, and substantial product or professional liability claims may be asserted against us. We are party to a number of legal proceedings relating to professional liability. The prevailing view among the states throughout the United States is that providing allografts is a service and not the sale of a product. As such, allografts are not subject to products liability causes of action. However, the law of a particular state could change in response to legislative changes or by judicial interpretation in a state where such issue has either not been previously addressed or prior precedent is overturned or subject to different interpretations by a court of higher precedential authority. In addition, due to the international scope of our activities we are subject to different laws which may treat allografts as products in those jurisdictions. The implantation of donated human tissue implants creates the potential for transmission of communicable diseases. Although we comply with Federal and state regulations and guidelines intended to prevent communicable disease transmission, and our tissue suppliers are also required to comply with such regulations, there can be no assurances that: (i) our tissue suppliers will comply with such regulations intended to prevent communicable disease transmissions; (ii) even if such compliance is achieved, that our implants have not been or will not be associated with transmission of disease; or (iii) a patient otherwise infected with disease would not erroneously assert a claim that the use of our implants resulted in disease transmission. We currently have $20 million of product and professional liability insurance to cover claims. This amount of insurance may not be adequate for potential claims if we are not successful in our defenses. Moreover, insurance covering our business may not always be available in the future on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If our insurance proves to be inadequate to pay a damage award, we may not have sufficient funds to do so, which would harm our financial condition and liquidity. In addition, successful product liability claims made against one of our competitors could cause claims to be made against us or expose us to a perception that we are vulnerable to similar claims. Claims against us, regardless of their merit or potential outcome, may also hurt our ability to obtain surgeon acceptance of our allografts or to expand our business. If we are not successful in expanding our distribution activities into international markets, we will not be able to pursue one of our strategies for increasing revenues. Our international distribution strategies vary by market, as well as within each country in which we operate. For example, we distribute only a portion of our line of allograft and xenograft products within each country. Our international operations will be subject to a number of risks which may vary from the risks we face in the United States, including the need to obtain regulatory approvals in additional foreign countries before we can offer our implants and technologies for use; longer distribution-to-collection cycles, as well as difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; dependence on local distributors; limited protection of intellectual property rights; fluctuations in the values of foreign currencies; and political and economic instability. The outcome of litigation or arbitration in which we are involved is unpredictable and an adverse decision in any such matter could adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are from time to time subject to legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business. For example, we are currently involved in an arbitration brought by Medtronic Sofamor Danek, USA, Inc. (“MSD”), a subsidiary of Medtronic, related to events stemming from the actions of Biomedical Tissue Services, Ltd. (“BTS”), an unaffiliated company recovery agency, and the subsequent voluntary recall of 20 Table of Contents allografts processed by us from tissue originating from BTS. MSD seeks indemnification from us for its legal fees, costs and expenses allegedly incurred during the defense of cases brought by recipients of these allografts. Any material litigation or arbitration, even if without merit, inevitably results in the diversion of the attention of our management and other relevant personnel. To the extent uninsured, such claims further require the expenditure of our resources for defense costs for us and for parties to whom we may have indemnification obligations. We also may be required to pay material amounts in settlement costs or damages. No assurances can be given that the results of the current arbitration or any new legal matters will be favorable to us. This claim is not covered by insurance. In addition, we have been named as a party, along with a number of other processor defendants, in lawsuits relating to the tissue recovery practices of Biomedical Tissue Service, Ltd., an unaffiliated recovery agency (“BTS”). As of December 31, 2011, there are 79 lawsuits pending against us related to the misconduct of BTS and BTS’s owner, Michael Mastromarino, as well as several funeral homes and their owners with which BTS conducted its affairs. These lawsuits generally allege that we were negligent in not discovering deficiencies in recovery practices at BTS. We deny the allegations and, due at least in part to the favorable law currently in place in the states where such cases are pending, i.e. New York, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania, we do not anticipate a materially adverse event arising from this litigation. However, reactions of juries cannot be predicted with reasonable reliability, and currently favorable laws in the jurisdictions may be subject to change. In addition to the favorable law, we believe that we have meritorious factual defenses to these claims, and will defend them vigorously. We have $2 million in answerable indemnity insurance, with non-eroding defense limits. Of the pending cases, however, our insurer has disclaimed coverage on approximately 33 of the cases. We believe this disclaimer is improper, and have brought a declaratory action against the insurer to obtain coverage on these disclaimed cases. Pending resolution of the declaratory action, or if the declaratory action is not resolved in our favor, we will be responsible for paying both the legal fees and any indemnification that may be owed in connection with those disclaimed cases. An adverse resolution of lawsuits or arbitrations could adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. Any acquisitions we make may require the issuance of a significant amount of equity or debt securities and may not be scientifically or commercially successful. As part of our business strategy, we may perform acquisitions to obtain additional businesses, product and/or process technologies, capabilities and personnel. If we make one or more significant acquisitions in which the consideration includes securities, we may be required to issue a substantial amount of equity, debt, warrants, convertible instruments or other similar securities. Such an issuance could dilute your investment in our common stock or increase our interest expense and other expenses. Further, acquisitions involve a number of operational risks, such as: • difficulty and expense of assimilating the operations, technology and personnel of the acquired business; • our inability to retain the management, key personnel and other employees of the acquired business; • our inability to maintain the acquired company’s relationship with key third parties, such as alliance partners; • exposure to legal claims for activities of the acquired business prior to the acquisition; • the diversion of our management’s attention from our core business; and • the potential impairment of goodwill and write-off of in-process research and development costs, adversely affecting our reported results of operations. 21 Table of Contents Any one of these risks could prevent an acquisition from being scientifically or commercially successful, which could have a material impact on our results of operations not only with respect to the operations of the acquired company but with respect to us on a consolidated basis. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 