Risk Factors” section constitute cautionary statements which identify factors regarding these forward-looking statements, including certain risks and uncertainties, that could cause actual results to vary materially from the future results indicated in these forward-looking statements. Other factors could also cause actual results to vary materially from the future results indicated in such forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Item 1. BUSINESS. Company Overview We are a leader in the use of natural tissues and innovative technologies to produce orthopedic and other surgical implants that repair and promote the natural healing of human bone and other human tissues and improve surgical outcomes. We process human musculoskeletal and other tissue, including bone, cartilage, tendon, ligament, fascia lata, pericardium, sclera and dermal tissue, and bovine animal tissue in producing allografts, utilizing proprietary BIOCLEANSE® and TUTOPLAST® sterilization processes, for distribution to hospitals and surgeons. We process at two facilities in Alachua, Florida and one facility in Germany and distribute our products and services in all 50 states and in over 31 countries worldwide. We process human and bovine animal tissue and distribute the tissue through various distribution channels. Our lines of business are comprised primarily of six product categories: spine, sports medicine, dental, surgical specialties, bone graft substitutes, and general orthopedic. The following table presents revenues from tissue distribution and other revenues and their respective percentages of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006: Year Ended December 31, 2008(1) 2007(2) 2006(2) (In thousands) Fees from tissue distribution: Spine $ 41,817 28.5 % $ 41,067 43.6 % $ 35,085 47.4 % Sports medicine 36,330 24.8 % 27,685 29.4 % 14,959 20.2 % Dental 27,365 18.7 % — 0.0 % — 0.0 % Surgical specialties 15,350 10.5 % — 0.0 % — 0.0 % Bone graft substitutes 14,393 9.8 % 17,011 18.1 % 13,506 18.3 % General orthopedic 5,631 3.8 % 993 1.1 % 969 1.3 % Cardiovascular(3) — 0.0 % 1,952 2.1 % 5,639 7.6 % Other revenues 5,749 3.9 % 5,499 5.8 % 3,812 5.2 % Total revenues $ 146,635 100.0 % $ 94,207 100.0 % $ 73,970 100.0 % Domestic revenues 126,957 86.6 % 88,121 93.5 % 68,639 92.8 % International revenues 19,678 13.4 % 6,086 6.5 % 5,331 7.2 % Total revenues $ 146,635 100.0 % $ 94,207 100.0 % $ 73,970 100.0 % 1 Table of Contents (1) Includes results of Tutogen Medical, Inc. beginning on February 27, 2008. (2) Regeneration Technologies, Inc. only. (3) We exited the cardiovascular business as of December 31, 2007. For additional financial information concerning our operating performance, please refer to Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of this report and our Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this report. We pursue a market-by-market approach to the distribution of our implants, and establish strategic distribution arrangements in order to increase our penetration in selected markets. We have distribution arrangements with Medtronic (“MDT”), Zimmer, Inc. (“Zimmer”), Blackstone Medical, Inc., a subsidiary of Orthofix International NV (“Blackstone”), Stryker Spine, a division of Stryker (“Stryker”), and Aesculap Implant Systems, Inc. (“Aesculap”) for spine implants, and with Zimmer for our dental implants. For our surgical specialties markets, we distribute through Davol, Inc., a subsidiary of C. R. Bard, Inc. (“Davol”), for hernia repair, through Mentor Corporation (“Mentor”) for breast reconstruction, through Coloplast A/S of Denmark (“Coloplast”) for urology, through IOP, Inc. (“IOP”) for ophthalmology and through ENTrigue Surgical, Inc. (“ENTrigue”) for ENT applications. Zimmer, Exactech, Inc., (“Exactech”) and Pioneer Surgical Technology, Inc. (“Pioneer”) are our current distributors for our allograft paste implants, and Wright Medical Technology, Inc. (“Wright”) distributes certain of our sports medicine implants. In the domestic sports medicine and general orthopedic applications we have developed a direct distribution force and a network of independent distributors. In the international market we use Zimmer for our dental implants and a network of independent distributors for other implants. We currently derive the majority of our revenues through our relationships with MDT, Zimmer, and Exactech. In addition, MDT and Zimmer provide nearly all of the instrumentation, surgeon training, distribution assistance and marketing materials for the lines of spinal allografts they distribute. As part of the tissue procurement process we rely on tissue recovery agencies to perform a risk assessment on every potential donor, interview family members and evaluate the donor’s medical records. Blood collected from each donor by the recovery agency is tested for the presence of viral or bacterial diseases. Bone tissue and tendon and ligament grafts are sterilized through our BioCleanse® process and TUTOPLAST® process only after they have passed this screening by the recovery agency and testing of the blood samples. Our BioCleanse® process is a patented tissue sterilization process that is designed to add a measure of safety to our tissue implants and provide surgeons and patients with tissue implants that are free of spores, fungi, bacteria and viruses and is the only tissue sterilization process that has been reviewed by the FDA. The BioCleanse® process is an automated, multi-step cleansing process which first removes blood and fats, then chemically sterilizes the tissue, while maintaining the structural integrity and biocompatibility of the tissue. The TUTOPLAST® process utilizes solvent dehydration and chemical inactivation, and is applied to two types of preserved allografts: soft tissue, consisting of fascia lata, fascia temporalis, pericardium, dermis and sclera; and bone tissue; consisting of various configurations of cancellous and cortical bone material. We believe that the BioCleanse® and TUTOPLAST® processes are the industry leading sterilization processes. We are an accredited member of the American Association of Tissue Banks, or AATB, a nationally recognized association of the tissue banking industry. The accreditation covers the processing, storage and distribution of tissues for transplantation and research and informs users of our human tissue implants that we are in compliance with the minimum safety guidelines of the association. We were incorporated in 1997 in Florida as a wholly-owned subsidiary of the University of Florida Tissue Bank, “UFTB”. We began operations on February 12, 1998 when UFTB contributed to us its allograft processing operations, related equipment and technologies, distribution arrangements, research and development activities and certain other assets. At the time of our initial public offering in August 2000, we reincorporated in the State of Delaware. Our principal offices are located at 11621 Research Circle, Alachua, Florida, and our phone number 2 Table of Contents is (386) 418-8888. Our Internet address is www.rtix.com. Information included on our website is not incorporated by reference in our Form 10-K. We make available, free of charge, on or through the investor relations portion of our website, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such material with, or furnish it to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). These filings are also available on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. Also available on our website is our Code of Conduct, our Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Professionals, and the charters for our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating and Governance Committee. Within the time period required by the SEC and Nasdaq, we will post any amendment to our Code of Ethics for our Senior Financial Professionals and any waiver of our Code of Conduct applicable to our senior financial professionals, executive officers and directors. Merger with Tutogen Medical, Inc. On February 27, 2008, we completed our merger with Tutogen Medical, Inc., (“TMI”), a Delaware corporation, in a tax-free stock-for-stock exchange pursuant to which TMI shareholders received 1.22 shares of our common stock for each share of TMI’s common stock. TMI, with its consolidated subsidiaries, processes, manufactures and distributes specialty surgical products and performs tissue processing services for dental, spine, urology, hernia repair, breast reconstruction, ophthalmology, and ear, nose and throat applications. The results of TMI’s operations have been included in our condensed consolidated financial statements since the merger date. In connection with the merger, we changed our name from Regeneration Technologies, Inc. to RTI Biologics, Inc. Industry Overview Defects in bone and other human tissue can be caused by a variety of sources including trauma, congenital defect, aging, infectious disease, cancer and other similar conditions. The prevalent method used to repair and promote the healing of defective tissue is surgical intervention, principally through the use of surgical implants. When considering a surgical procedure for tissue repair, surgeons and patients face a number of treatment options including: • metals and synthetics; • “xenograft” tissue from an animal source; • “autograft” tissue from the patient; and • “allograft” tissue from another human donor. Metals and Synthetics Historically, the medical community has used metal and synthetic materials for implant procedures. Metal and synthetic technologies, however, have several shortcomings. One of the principal drawbacks to the use of these materials is that, despite best efforts, they do not facilitate the body’s natural tissue healing process known as “remodeling.” Metal exhibits different properties than bone, and one concern with its use in orthopedics is “stress shielding,” where the bone adjoining the metal can become weak and fragile over time. This problem can be of particular concern to elderly patients who are more likely to suffer from osteoporosis. Additionally, a number of synthetics can wear away in the body, causing a negative immune system response. Other synthetics can chemically break down over time with negative biological and clinical consequences. Using metal and synthetic products may also make it difficult to do a second surgery or revision. Finally, some metal and synthetic products may need to be removed and/or replaced, requiring the risk, expense and inconvenience of a second surgery. 3 Table of Contents Xenograft Tissue Surgical procedures using xenograft tissue-based implants are common in many areas of medicine including cardiac and vascular procedures, soft tissue repair and wound care. Xenograft based products are also used in the repair of bone defects in orthopedic surgery as carriers for demineralized bone matrix and bone morphogenic protein products. The production of xenograft products involves recovering animal tissue, typically from cattle (bovine) or pigs (porcine), and then transplanting that recovered tissue into a human patient. Autograft and Allograft Tissue Surgeons are increasingly utilizing autograft and allograft tissue in their surgical procedures to take advantage of their natural healing characteristics. Autograft procedures involve a surgeon harvesting tissue from one part of a patient’s body for transplant to another part of the body. In contrast to autograft, allograft tissues are recovered from cadaveric donors, processed for certain intended uses and then transplanted by a surgeon into the patient’s body to make the needed repair. Autografts and allografts are not only “osteoconductive,” meaning they provide a scaffold for new bone to attach itself to, but, in contrast to metals and some synthetics, can be “osteoinductive” as well, meaning they stimulate the growth of new tissue. A significant drawback to autograft procedures is that they require an additional surgery to harvest the tissue from a second site in the patient’s body. Often in autograft procedures, the site where the patient’s tissue is harvested becomes painful and uncomfortable, and can take longer to heal than the primary surgical site. Additional complications can involve infection, nerve and arterial injury and joint instability. Moreover, a patient may not have sufficient quantities of quality autograft tissue for transplant procedures. We believe allograft is a superior surgical solution compared to autograft because the procedure involves only the primary surgical site. Marketing and Distribution Our lines of business are comprised primarily of the following markets: spine, sports medicine, dental, surgical specialties, bone graft substitutes, and general orthopedic. Our current implants range from allografts and xenografts that are precision machined for specific surgical applications to grafts conventionally processed for general surgical uses. The following summarizes the marketing and distribution in each of our markets: Market Estimated U.S. Market Size Distributor Products Spine $850 Million MDT Cornerstone® SR Series Grafts Cornerstone® Reserve Series Grafts Cornerstone® Select Series Grafts Cornerstone™ Conventional Allografts Tangent™ Impacted Cortical Wedge Precision™ ALIF MD™ Series Threaded Cortical Bone Dowel Zimmer Puros® A Puros® S Puros® S2 Puros® P Puros® Conventional Allografts Blackstone (Orthofix) AlloQuent™ S AlloQuent™ ALIF Stryker AlloCraft™ C AlloCraft™ L Aesculap Cervical/Lumbar Grafts 4 Table of Contents Market Estimated U.S. Market Size Distributor Products Sports Medicine $949 Million Wright Cancello-Puro® Wedge RTI (Direct) Matrix® HD Sterling® Interference Screws Sterling® Wedge Fresh-stored OC—Fem Condyles & Taul Menisci Patellar Tendon (BTB) Series Tibialis Tendons Achilles Tendons Assembled BTB and BTB Select Peroneus Longus Semi-T—Gracilis HTO Wedge Dental $174 Million Zimmer Puros® Blocks Puros® Cancellous Chips Puros® Cortical Chips Puros® Membranes CopiOs® Pericardium Surgical Specialties Hernia $250 Million Davol (Bard) Allomax® Dermis Breast Reconstruction $25–$50 Million Mentor Neoform® Dermis Urology $200 Million Coloplast Suspend® Fascia Lata Axis® Dermis Tutoplast® Pericardium Ophthalmology $9 Million IOP IO Patch® BioDome® BioElevation® BioSpacer® ENT $55 Million ENTrigue Allograft Dermis Allograft Fascia Lata Allograft Pericardium Bone Graft Substitutes $250 Million Zimmer Puros® RTU Paste Puros® Xenograft Chips Puros® Xenograft Cubes Exactech Altiva DBM Regenafil® Regenaform® Osteofil® Opteform® OsteoBridge™ Pioneer BioSet™ MDT Osteofil® General Orthopedic/Other $17 Million Independent and direct distribution Conventional Fashioned Conventional Intercalary Conventional Other Faslata Xeno Wedge (Sterling) Spine The spine market for allografts includes precision machined implants utilized in spinal procedures. Our spine allografts are marketed domestically through our non-exclusive relationships with MDT, Blackstone, Zimmer, Stryker and Aesculap. MDT is our principal distributor in the spine market. We originally entered into a Exclusive Distribution and License Agreement with MDT, dated June 1, 2002, pursuant to which MDT distributed specialty allograft 5 Table of Contents and bone paste for use in spinal surgery. We have amended our agreement with MDT several times. Under our current agreement with MDT, which expires June 1, 2014, unless mutually renewed: • We supply MDT with human allograft tissue and bone paste for spine surgery, using our best efforts to meet the needs of MDT and its surgeons. • We are responsible for the processing of tissue and related regulatory compliance. • We license MDT to distribute these products. MDT has an exclusive license with respect to certain specialty allograft products in the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico, and a non-exclusive license with respect to other products. • Inventories are carried by MDT. • MDT pays us a license and service fee ranging from 40% – 50% of listed average net distribution fee. We pay MDT a 5% royalty based upon net revenues of our spinal allograft products distributed by other U.S. distributors. • We bill MDT directly. MDT payment terms to us are 30 days from the date of shipment, and we recognize MDT’s licensing and servicing fees as revenue upon receipt of products by MDT. MDT distributes a number of our products. Our CORNERSTONE SR® Cortical Block is used in the cervical area of the spine and is available in both parallel and lordotic versions. Our MD-Series™ Threaded Cortical Bone Dowels are used to help restore the anatomical relationships in the lumbar area of the spine between vertebral bodies and open spaces formed between vertebrae known as neural foramen. Our dowels are threaded, providing rigid interface with the vertebrae above and below allowing the surgeon to provide greater stability to the surgical site. Our TANGENT® Impacted Cortical Wedge, CRESCENT™ Cortical Spacer and PRECISON GRAFT™ Cortical Ring allografts are specially designed and contoured to promote stability and restore normal alignment in the lumbar spine. During September 2000, Zimmer began distributing TMI bone products under a ten year agreement for applications in the spine market. In April 2003, TMI entered into an exclusive license and distribution agreement with Zimmer. Effective with that agreement, Zimmer became a “stocking distributor”. Currently, Zimmer distributes both traditional bone and specialized bone products for cervical and lumbar spine applications processed with our BioCleanse® and TUTOPLAST® processes. On November 21, 2006, we entered into an Allograft Distribution and Supply Agreement with Blackstone for an initial term of 3 years. Under this agreement, we process and package grafts designed by Blackstone for distribution by Blackstone. On November 17, 2007, this agreement was expanded to include four additional graft designs. On June 6, 2007, we entered into an Allograft Distribution and Supply Agreement with an initial term of 3 years with Stryker, under which we process and package grafts designed by Stryker for distribution by Stryker. On December 15, 2008, we entered into an Implant Development and Supply Agreement with an initial term of 10 years with Aesculap, under which we will process and package grafts designed by Aesculap for distribution by Aesculap. Sports Medicine Many repetitive use and sports-related injuries can be addressed with allograft implants. The most prevalent surgeries include repairs to the anterior cruciate ligament, or ACL in the knee, and rotator cuff, in the shoulder. Our principal sports medicine allografts are tendons for ligament reconstruction and our meniscal allografts for transplantation. Many of our sports medicine allografts utilize our patented pre-shape technology and are shaped to fit surgeon’s requirements making them easier and/or faster to implant. Our sports medicine products are 6 Table of Contents marketed domestically through our direct biologics representatives and through our network of independent distributors and internationally through a network of independent distributors. At the end of 2008, our domestic distribution organization consisted of approximately 30 direct biologics representatives. During 2006 we introduced our first assembled tendon allografts for use in ACL reconstruction surgery. The assembled implant significantly increased the supply of the bone tendon bone pre-shaped implant to help us meet the growing demand for this surgery. In December, 2006 we announced an Exchange and Service Agreement with CryoLife, Inc. (“CryoLife”) whereby we transferred certain rights to our cardiovascular business to CryoLife in exchange for certain rights related to CryoLife’s orthopedic sports medicine business. On February 9, 2007, we entered into a Xenograft Distribution and Supply Agreement with Wright. Under this contract, Wright distributes certain Sterling xenografts as well as xenografts designed by Wright which we process and package. This agreement was expanded to include additional designs effective March 9, 2007. During 2007 we enhanced the sports medicine product category by introducing the following new products: BioCleanse Meniscus, Bone-Tendon-Bone Select, BioCleanse Peroneus Longus and Sterling Xenograft Wedge. In May 2008, our first fresh-stored osteochondral (OC) allograft for cartilage repair was successfully implanted. In early 2009, we introduced our Matrix HD dermis products for shoulder repair. Dental We currently provide various products including cancellous and cortical bone and human and bovine membranes primarily for dental procedures related to augmenting ridge restoration. During September 2000, Zimmer entered into a ten year agreement to represent TUTOPLAST® processed bone, under the brand name Puros®, for dental applications. Zimmer markets the implants to the end user and we ship and bill in the United States the customer directly. Distribution fees earned pursuant to the agreements are recognized ratably over the terms of these respective agreements. During 2006, TMI expanded its relationship with Zimmer by adding pericardium and dermis soft tissue grafts for dental applications. The additions of these implants provide Zimmer with a full line of biologic implants for the dental surgeons. In August 2007, TMI entered into an agreement to extend Zimmer’s exclusivity internationally into Europe, the Middle East and Asia. The international agreement includes both human and bovine bone and soft tissue grafts and allows Zimmer to provide the dentist with a complete product offering for the regenerative procedure. Surgical Specialties We distribute implants for surgical specialties which include hernia, breast reconstruction, urology, ophthalmology, and ENT. In January 2006, TMI entered into a four-year exclusive worldwide distribution agreement with Davol to promote, market and distribute TMI’s line of allograft biologic tissues for hernia repair and the reconstruction of the chest and abdominal walls. Under the agreement, Davol paid TMI $3.3 million in fees for the exclusive distribution rights. Davol is a stocking distributor. It initially entered the human dermis hernia market during the third quarter of 2006. In June 2006, TMI signed a distribution agreement with Mentor for the exclusive North American rights for the use of TUTOPLAST® dermis for breast reconstruction. Under the agreement, Mentor paid TMI $500,000 in fees for the exclusive distribution rights. Mentor initiated distribution during the third quarter of 2007. 7 Table of Contents For urological indications, TMI partnered with Mentor since 1998. During 2006, Mentor sold their urology business to Coloplast and assigned the TMI agreement to Coloplast. In May 2007, TMI signed a agreement with Coloplast extending the current distribution agreement and expanding its scope both internationally, and to include TMI’s Tutoplast® processed Bovine Pericardium. As a stocking distributor, Coloplast markets TUTOPLAST® fascia lata, dermis, and pericardium tissue grafts. IOP has been a distributor of TMI’s since 1998, and is the exclusive distributor for TUTOPLAST® processed tissue for ophthalmic applications. In December 2008, we entered into a biologics development, distribution and supply agreement with ENTrigue to develop, promote, distribute and supply our line of allograft biologic tissues for the ear, nose and throat market. Initial shipments of implants to ENTrigue will begin in 2009. Bone graft substitutes Allograft Paste. Surgeons principally use our allograft paste implants, which are composed of demineralized bone matrix (“DBM”) and in some cases a biologic gel carrier, in fracture treatment, bone and joint reconstruction and periodontal applications, such as ridge augmentation for dental implants. Our allograft paste implants are marketed under Osteofil by MDT, Puros® RTU Paste by Zimmer and the Optefil™, Opteform®, Regenafil® and Regenaform® brands with Exactech and we distribute directly the BioSet™ family of paste products through our direct distributor force, Pioneer, and our international distribution network. Exactech is our principal distributor for allograft paste products for general orthopedic procedures. We also distribute these products through Zimmer, Pioneer, our own direct distribution force and an international distribution network. Under our licensing and distribution agreement, we remain responsible for processing and related regulatory compliance and the distributors are responsible for regulatory compliance related to its distribution. The distributor pays us a license and service fees based on a percentage of the listed average distribution fee for allograft paste used in non-spinal orthopedic procedures. We pay Exactech a 3% royalty fee with respect to our moldable allograft pastes distributed by others which is the same formulation as the Exactech product. The agreement is for an initial term expiring June 30, 2014, subject to earlier termination under certain limited circumstances. On May 14, 2007, we entered into an exclusive distribution agreement with Zimmer with an initial term of 10 years, relating to a new bone paste products. The field of use for these products includes all orthopedic, trauma, reconstruction, spine, sports medicine, dental and oral maxillofacial applications. As part of the agreement, Zimmer has agreed to make three payments to us totaling $5.0 million for the aforementioned exclusive distribution rights, and maintain certain minimum order volumes beginning in 2010. The first payment of $1.0 million was made at the time of entering the agreement. The second payment of $2.0 million was made in the first quarter of 2008. The final payment of $2.0 million is expected to be paid in 2009. The $5.0 million exclusivity payment is being recognized as other revenue on a straight-line basis over the initial term of the contract. The contract provides for repayment, on a pro rata basis, of the exclusivity payments during the initial contract term for specific events of non-performance, as defined in the agreement. The agreement also includes automatic two-year renewal terms, as well as buy-out provisions by both parties upon proper notice of cancellation. Milled Allograft and Xenograft. Our bone graft substitutes business also includes certain types of blended and milled bone allografts and xenografts, such as our demineralized bone matrix, cortical cancellous chips and ground cancellous chips, used in total hip and knee replacements and for various injuries. General Orthopedic Conventional Allografts. Our conventional allograft business includes a wide variety of allograft categories including our intercalary grafts, such as our frozen femoral heads which are used for cancer treatment 8 Table of Contents procedures and hip and knee reconstruction. We also produce various types of fashioned bone, such as strips and shafts used for various orthopedic procedures. The BioCleanse® Tissue Sterilization Solution We have developed and utilized in the United States the patented BioCleanse® tissue sterilization process, which is an automated, pharmaceutical grade chemical sterilization process for musculoskeletal bone and certain soft tissue. This process is fully validated to kill or inactivate all classes of conventional pathogens, viruses, microbes, bacteria and fungi. Our BioCleanse® process is able to remove greater than 99% of the blood, fats, lipids and other unwanted materials from the tissue we process. We believe the removal of blood, fat, lipids and other unwanted materials results in faster patient healing because it eliminates the need for the patient’s body to remove these substances using natural processes following surgery. An important element of the BioCleanse® process is that while it removes unwanted materials embedded within the tissue, it maintains the tissue’s structural integrity and compression strength. Studies have shown that tissue sterilized with BioCleanse® maintains the same compression strength as untreated tissue and has significantly greater compression strength than tissue treated with other sterilization processes. The BioCleanse® process has been reviewed by the FDA which concluded that BioCleanse® was a validated tissue sterilization process demonstrated to prevent contamination and cross contamination of tissue grafts. The significance of the review is that we are not aware of any other tissue sterilization process related to human tissue in our industry that has been reviewed or approved by the FDA. The FDA does not have a formal approval process in place for tissue related processing techniques. Our BioCleanse® process is currently used on all of our hard-tissue allografts and xenografts and most of our musculoskeletal soft tissue products. In addition to the safety advantage of BioCleanse®, it provides us with a number of significant research and development opportunities, including the ability to introduce bone-growth factors and anti-bacterial, anti-viral and cancer fighting agents into our implants. The TUTOPLAST® Tissue Sterilization Solution The TUTOPLAST® process utilizes solvent dehydration and chemical inactivation to remove blood, lipids and extraneous materials, inactivate viruses and prions, and break down RNA and DNA into fragments not capable of replication and disease transmission while preserving the biological and mechanical properties. The TUTOPLAST® process yields a dehydrated, semi-processed product that may be stored at room temperature for extended periods of time. This tissue is subsequently processed to size and/or shape and packaged for terminal sterilization. We apply the TUTOPLAST® process to two types of preserved allografts: soft tissue, consisting of fascia lata, fascia temporalis, pericardium, dermis and sclera; and bone tissue; consisting of various configurations of cancellous and cortical bone material. Processed pericardium, fascia lata and dermis are collagenous tissue used to repair, replace or line native connective tissue primarily in dental, ophthalmology, urology, plastic and reconstructive surgeries. Dermis is also used in hernia repair and pelvic floor reconstruction. Sclera is used in ophthalmology procedures such as, anterior and posterior segment patch grafting applications for glaucoma, retina and trauma surgery and oculoplastics, as well as contour wrapping of an orbital implant. Processed cortical and cancellous bone material is used in a wide variety of applications in spine, orthopaedic and dental surgeries. Tissue Recovery Tissue recovery is the actual removal of tissue from a donor after receiving appropriate consent. Consent is obtained by the tissue recovery group. We operate certain tissue recovery groups directly, and contract with other independent FDA registered tissue recovery groups which specialize in this activity. Tissue recovery personnel aseptically recover musculoskeletal tissue within 24 hours following a donor’s death, using surgical instruments 9 Table of Contents and sterile techniques similar to those used in hospitals for routine surgery. Recovered tissue is placed on wet or dry ice and then transported by the donor recovery agency to the tissue processor or possibly a research institution. Under U.S. law, human tissue cannot be sold. However, the law permits the recovery of some costs, such as those involved in recovering, processing and storing tissue and costs related to the advancement of tissue processing technologies, all types of activities in which we are involved. Our network of donor recovery groups recovers a variety of tissue types from donors including the fibula, femur, tibia, humerus, ilium, pericardium, fascia lata, dermis, sclera, tendons and ligaments. Once we receive tissue that has been screened at our tissue recovery centers, we re-screen this recovered material to guard against transmittable diseases. This screening process includes evaluation of risk on the basis of donor medical history, lifestyle, interviews with the donor’s family and physical examination of the donor. We also perform biomedical testing and culturing at various stages during the processing of tissue, using FDA licensed tests and other tests for known viruses and pathogens. We have relationships with over thirty tissue donor recovery agencies across the country. We also have relationships outside the United States. Our largest single donor recovery group represented 11% of our total donor tissue for the year ended December 31, 2008. As a result of our merger with TMI, effective February 27, 2008, prior year donor recovery percentages are not comparable. We believe additional recovery group relationships would be available if needed and consequently that the loss of any one of our sources of donor tissue would not have a material impact on our operating results. We continue to develop new xenograft tissue implants. Grafts processed from xenograft tissue are regulated by the FDA as devices and require approval or licenses from the FDA prior to marketing in the United States. The source of our animal tissue are regulated closed herds. The herds are located in the United States and New Zealand. Our clinical studies indicate that our xenograft implants, after processing through BioCleanse® and TUTOPLAST® are equivalent to our allograft implants with respect to functionality, safety and incorporation. We believe the continued development of our xenograft implants will help us meet the unmet demand for allograft and also allow us to develop new biological implants that cannot currently be made due to structural limitations of human tissue. Research and Development Our research and development costs for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were $8,143, $5,190 and $5,403, respectively. In 2008, we continued to increase our investment in our R&D efforts by funding new projects including research and development projects at our international facility in Neunkirchen, Germany. Our scientists are focusing their studies on delivering optimal regenerative medicine solutions by achieving higher levels of osteoinductivity and osteoconductivity through allograft and xenograft, as well as expanding the uses of the BioCleanse® process technology to infuse healing pharmaceutical components into allograft implants. We are focused on developing new processing technology to accelerate the introduction of new tissue implants in all product categories and to continuously raise the bar for tissue safety. We plan to continue to develop new implants and technologies within our market and to develop additional tissue-related technologies for other markets. We plan to do this by building on our core technology platforms: BioCleanse®, TUTOPLAST®, precision machining, assembled grafts, and tissue mediated osteoinduction, and focusing on advanced technologies for existing markets. We operate a dedicated research team working on advanced technologies, and have embedded development/technical teams who work directly in the business/marketing teams focused on expanding the scope and scale of existing competencies such as tissue sterilization and tissue machining to meet specific surgical needs. This approach has resulted in the development of core science platforms, a pipeline of concepts for development and marketing and focused development to meet immediate needs. 10 Table of Contents In 2008 we launched nine new implants in spine, sports medicine, dental and bone graft substitutes developed by our research and development teams. We continue to develop our precision machined and assembled technology to produce novel implants previously not possible due to the naturally occurring anatomical constraints of human tissue. Assembled technology consists of the construction of implants from subassemblies enabling the processing of more implants as well as more complex constructs for broader surgical indications. Our assembled technology allows us to produce optimal implant configurations and expand the offering of allograft and xenograft tissues into previously unmet applications. Additionally, tissue that was previously unusable due to anatomical limitations on bone thickness, shape or quality now has the opportunity to be formed into new implants. Intellectual Property Our business depends upon the significant know-how and proprietary technology we have developed. To protect this know-how and proprietary technology, we rely on a combination of trade secret laws, patents, trademarks and confidentiality agreements. The effect of these intellectual property rights is to define zones of exclusive use of the covered intellectual property. Our United States patent holdings include patents relating to or covering: BioCleanse®, our proprietary method of cleaning, sterilizing and virally inactivating donor tissue; our MD-Series™ cortical bone dowel; soft and calcified tissue implants; intervertebral spacers and other spinal implants; matrix compositions comprised of muscle or pulverized dermis; the use of the interference screw technology; our segmentally demineralized graft; our demineralized stent or conduit technology; methods and instruments for improved meniscus transplantation; and materials and methods for improved bone- tendon-bone transplantation. Our foreign patent holdings include: our MD-Series™ cortical bone dowel technology, our precision machined spinal implants, our demineralized stent technology, and our BioCleanse® process. The duration of patent rights generally is 20 years from the date of filing of priority application, while trademarks, once registered, essentially are perpetual. We also have patent applications pending in the U.S. (including continuation and divisional applications), and corresponding foreign patent applications pending in various countries including, but not limited to, Canada, Japan, Australia and the European Union. In addition, we rely on our substantial body of know-how, including proprietary tissue recovery techniques and processes, research and development, tissue processing and quality assurance. The TUTOPLAST® process utilizes proprietary trade secrets. No significant patents are expected to expire in the next five years. Competition Competition in the tissue reconstruction and healing industry is intense and subject to rapid technological change and evolving industry requirements and standards. Companies within the industry compete on the basis of design of related instrumentation, efficacy of products, relationships with the surgical community, depth of range of implants, scientific and clinical results, and pricing. Allograft and our xenograft implants compete with autograft, metals and synthetic tissues. Our principal competitors in the conventional allograft market include the Musculoskeletal Transplant Foundation, or MTF, AlloSource, LifeCell, Inc., a subsidiary of Kinetic Concepts Inc. and LifeNet. Among our competitors in precision machined allograft are Osteotech, MTF, LifeNet and AlloSource. Other companies who process and distribute allograft pastes include Osteotech, AlloSource, Integra, Wright, and MTF. Companies who process and distribute xenograft tissue include Synovis, LifeCell, Cook Surgical and Osteotech. Government Regulation Government regulation plays a significant role in the processing and distribution of allografts. We procure, process and market our tissue products worldwide. Although some standards of harmonization exist, each 11 Table of Contents country in which we do business has its own specific regulatory requirements. These requirements are dynamic in nature and, as such, are continually changing. New regulations may be promulgated at any time and with limited notice. While we believe that we are in compliance with all existing pertinent international and domestic laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that changes in governmental administrations and regulations will not adversely affect our operations. Failure to comply with applicable requirements could result in fines, injunctions, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, suspension of production, inability to market current products, criminal prosecution, and/or refusal of the government to authorize the marketing of new products. In the United States, our allograft products are regulated by the FDA under Title 21 of the Code of Federal Regulations, Parts 1270 and 1271, “Current Good Tissue Practice for Human Cell, Tissue, and Cellular and Tissue-Based Products”. Xenograft tissues and allograft bone paste are regulated as medical devices and subject to FDA 21 CFR, Part 820 (Current Good Manufacturing Practices for Medical Devices) and related statutes. In 2008, we have obtained a 510(k) marketing clearance from the FDA for bovine pericardium, for use in dental and general surgery applications and plan to seek further approvals for other xenograft tissues and indications. In addition, our U.S. operation is subject to certain state and local regulations, as well as compliance to the standards of the tissue bank industry’s accrediting organization, the AATB. In Germany, allografts are classified as drugs and the German government regulates such products in accordance with German Drug Law. On April 7, 2004, the European Commission issued a human tissue directive to regulate allografts within the European Union (“EU”). Our Neunkirchen facility is presently licensed by the German Health Authorities and in compliance with applicable international laws and regulations, allowing us to market our human and animal implant products globally. In June of 2006, we received approval to sell our first allograft product into Germany. The FDA and international regulatory bodies conduct periodic compliance inspections of both our U.S. and our German processing facilities. Both operations are registered with the U.S. FDA Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research (“CBER”) and are certified to ISO 9001:2000 and ISO 13485:2003. The Alachua facility is also accredited by the AATB and is licensed in the states of Florida, New York, California, Maryland, Delaware and Illinois. The Neunkirchen facility is registered with the German Health Authority (“BfArM”) as a pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturer and is subject to German drug law. We believe that worldwide regulation of allografts and xenografts is likely to intensify as the international regulatory community focuses on the growing demand for these implant products and the attendant safety and efficacy issues of citizen recipients. Changes in governing laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our management further believes that we can mitigate this exposure by continuing to work closely with government and industry regulators in understanding the basic tenets of the business and participating in the drafting of reasonable and appropriate legislation. We currently market and distribute allografts that are subject to the FDA’s “Human Tissue Intended for Transplantation” and Subparts A and B of “Human Cells, Tissues, and Cellular and Tissue-Based Products” regulations. Under these regulations, we are required to perform donor screening and infectious disease testing and to document this screening and testing for each donor from whom we process tissue. The FDA has authority under the rules to inspect human tissue processing facilities, and to detain, recall, or destroy tissues for which appropriate documentation is not available. We are not required to obtain pre-market approval or clearance from the FDA for allografts that meet the regulation’s definition of “human tissue.” The FDA may regulate certain allografts as medical devices, drugs, or biologics, which would require that we obtain approval or product licensure from the FDA. This would occur in those cases where the allograft is deemed to have been “more than minimally manipulated or indicated for non-homologous use.” In general, “homologous use” occurs when tissue is used for the same basic function that it fulfilled in the donor. The definitional criteria for making these determinations appear in the FDA’s rules. If the FDA decides that certain of our current or future allografts are more than minimally manipulated or indicated for non-homologous use, it would require licensure, approval or clearances of those allografts. Allografts requiring such approval are subject 12 Table of Contents to pervasive and continuing regulation by the FDA. We would be required to list these allografts as a drug, as a medical device, or as a biologic, and to manufacture them in specifically registered or licensed facilities in accordance with FDA regulation “Current Good Manufacturing Practices.” We would also be subject to post-marketing surveillance and reporting requirements. In addition, our manufacturing facilities and processes would be subject to periodic inspection to assess compliance with Current Good Manufacturing Practices. Depending on the nature and extent of any FDA decision applicable to our allografts, further distribution of the affected products could be interrupted for a substantial period of time, which would reduce our revenues and hurt our profitability. Our labeling and promotional activities would be subject to scrutiny by the FDA and, in certain instances, by the Federal Trade Commission. The export of drugs, devices and biologics is also subject to more intensive regulation than is the case for human tissue products. Certain of our allograft pastes are subject to regulation as medical devices under the 510(k) pre-market notification process because they incorporate a non-human gelatin constituent as a carrier. We have received FDA clearance for our flowable and moldable allograft paste implants for orthopedic and spinal applications and for our allograft bone paste for dental applications. Our xenograft implants are regulated by the FDA as medical devices and are subject to pre-market approval or clearance by the FDA. We received 510(k) pre-market approval for two new xenograft products in 2007 and two new xenograft products in 2008. RTI xenograft implants are CE-marked and are therefore subject to a design examination review by a Notified Body. In 2006, the RTI US facility received initial CE mark approval for ten different product models, followed by an additional product approval in 2007. Approval to CE-mark two product line extensions was also received by the US facility in 2007 and 2008. In addition, the US facility received A “Certificate of Suitability” from the European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines & HealthCare (EDQM) for bovine bone in 2008. This certifies that the bovine bone material complies with the European Pharmacopoeia monograph for products at risk for transmission of animal spongiform disease. The FDA requires tissue processors to register with the agency and list their tissue products. We are currently an FDA registered tissue processor. Our tissue processing generates by-products classified as medical hazardous waste by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and the Florida Department of Environmental Protection. All such by-products must be segregated and properly disposed of in compliance with applicable environmental regulations. We believe that we are in compliance with the applicable regulations. Environmental Our allografts and xenografts, as well as the chemicals used in processing, are handled and disposed of in accordance with country-specific, federal, state and local regulations. We contract with independent, third parties to perform all gamma-terminal sterilization of its allografts. In view of the engagement of a third party to perform irradiation services, the requirements for compliance with radiation hazardous waste does not apply, and therefore we do not anticipate that having any material adverse effect upon our capital expenditures, results of operations or financial condition. However, we are responsible for assuring that the service is being performed in accordance with applicable regulations. Although we believe we are in compliance with all applicable environmental regulations, the failure to fully comply with any such regulations could result in the imposition of penalties, fines and/or sanctions which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Employees As of December 31, 2008, we had a total of 755 employees of whom 151 were employed in Germany. Management believes its relations with its employees are good. 13 Table of Contents Item 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider each of the risks and uncertainties described in this section and all of the other information in this document before deciding to invest in our common stock. Any of the risk factors we describe below could severely harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The market price of our common stock could decline if any of these risks or uncertainties develop into actual events. You may lose all or part of the money you pay to buy our common stock. We depend heavily upon sources of human tissue, and any failure to obtain tissue from these sources in a timely manner will interfere with our ability to process and distribute allografts. The supply of human tissue has at times limited our growth, and may not be sufficient to meet our future needs. In addition, due to seasonal changes in mortality rates, some scarce tissues that we currently use for allografts are at times in particularly short supply. Other factors, some of which are unpredictable, such as negative publicity and regulatory actions in the industry in which we operate also could unexpectedly reduce the available supply of tissue. We rely on donor recovery groups for their human tissue supplies and we have relationships with over thirty tissue donor recovery agencies across the country. We also have relationships outside the United States. Donor recovery groups are part of relatively complex relationships. They provide support to donor families, are regulated by the FDA, and are often affiliated with hospitals, universities or organ procurement organizations. Our relationships with donor recovery groups, which are critical to our supply of tissue, could be affected by relationships recovery groups have with other organizations. Any negative impact of the regulatory and disease transmission issues facing the industry, as well as the negative publicity that these issues create, could adversely affect our ability to negotiate favorable contracts with recovery groups. We cannot be sure that the supply of human tissue will continue to be available at current levels or will be sufficient to meet our needs. If we are not able to obtain tissue from current sources sufficient to meet our needs, we may not be able to locate additional replacement sources of tissue on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Any interruption of our business caused by the need to locate additional sources of tissue would significantly hurt our revenues. We expect that our revenues would decline in proportion to any decline in tissue supply. If we fail to maintain existing strategic relationships or are unable to identify distributors of our implants, revenues may decrease. We currently derive the majority of our revenues through our relationships with MDT, Zimmer, and Exactech. In addition, MDT and Zimmer provide nearly all of the instrumentation, surgeon training, distribution assistance and marketing materials for the lines of spinal allografts they distribute. Variations in the timing and volume of orders by MDT and Zimmer may have a material effect upon our revenues. If our relationships with MDT or Zimmer are terminated or reduced for any reason and we are unable to replace these relationships with other means of distribution, we would suffer a material decrease in revenues. We may need to obtain the assistance of additional distributors to market and distribute our new allografts and technologies, as well as to market and distribute our existing allografts and technologies to new markets or geographical areas. We may not be able to find additional distributors who will agree to and successfully market and distribute our allografts and technologies on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we are unable to establish additional distribution relationships on favorable terms, our revenues may decline. 14 Table of Contents If adverse macro-economic conditions persist, our business and revenues could be adversely affected. We have been adversely affected by the current macro-economic conditions. If this slowdown continues or worsens, it could have a material adverse effect upon our business and revenues. If third-party payors fail to provide appropriate levels of reimbursement for the use of our implants, revenues could be adversely affected. Political, economic and regulatory influences are subjecting the healthcare industry in the United States to fundamental change. In January 2009, the new presidential administration took office. Although the new administration and recently elected U.S. Congress have expressed some support for measures intended to expand the number of citizens covered by health insurance and other changes within the health care system, the costs of implementing any of these proposals could be financed, in part, by reductions in the payments made to under Medicare and other government programs. New federal or state legislation could result in significant changes in the availability, delivery, pricing or payment for healthcare services and products and could reduce the amounts paid for our services, which could have a material adverse effect upon our revenues. Our revenues will largely depend on the reimbursement of patients’ medical expenses by government health care programs and private health insurers. Governments and private insurers closely examine medical procedures incorporating new technologies to determine whether the procedures will be covered by payment, and if so, the level of payment which may apply. We cannot be sure that third-party payors will continue to reimburse us at the current levels. If we fail to maintain the high processing standards that implants require or if we are unable to develop processing capacity as required, our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated. Implants require careful calibration and precise, high-quality processing. Achieving precision and quality control will require skill and diligence by our personnel. If we fail to achieve and maintain these high processing standards, including avoiding processing errors, design defects or component failures: • we could be forced to recall, withdraw or suspend distribution of its implants; • our implants and technologies could fail quality assurance and performance tests; • production and deliveries of our implants could be delayed or cancelled; and • our processing costs could increase. Further, to be successful, we will need to manage our human tissue processing capacity related to tissue recovery and demand for our allografts. It may be difficult for us to match our processing capacity to demand due to problems related to yields, quality control and assurance, tissue availability, adequacy of control policies and procedures, and lack of skilled personnel. If we are unable to process and produce our implants on a timely basis, at acceptable quality and costs, and in sufficient quantities, or if we experience unanticipated technological problems or delays in processing, it will reduce revenues and increase our cost per allograft processed. Our allograft and xenograft implants and technologies could become subject to significantly greater regulation which could disrupt our business. The FDA and several states have statutory authority to regulate allograft processing, including our BioCleanse® and TUTOPLAST® processes, and allograft-based materials. The FDA could identify deficiencies in future inspections of our facilities or our suppliers or promulgate future regulatory rulings that could disrupt our business, reducing profitability. If any of our allografts fall under the FDA’s definitions of “more than minimally manipulated or indicated for non-homologous use,” we would be required to obtain medical device approval or clearance or biologics 15 Table of Contents licenses, which could require clinical testing and could result in disapproval of our license applications and restricted distribution of any of our allografts which may become subject to pre-market approval. The FDA could require post-market testing and surveillance to monitor the effects of such allografts, could restrict the commercial applications of these allografts, and could conduct periodic inspections of our facilities and our suppliers. Delays encountered during the FDA approval process could shorten the patent protection period during which we have the exclusive right to commercialize such technologies or could allow others to come to market before us with similar technologies. FDA regulations of human cellular and tissue-based products, titled “Good Tissue Practices,” cover all stages of allograft processing, from procurement of tissue to distribution of final allografts. These regulations increased regulatory scrutiny within the industry in which we operate and have lead to increased enforcement action which affects the conduct of our business. In addition, these regulations have a significant effect upon recovery agencies which supply us with tissue and increase the cost of recovery activities. Any such increase would translate into increased costs, as we would expect to reimburse the recovery agencies based on their cost of recovery. Other regulatory entities include state agencies with statutes covering tissue banking. Regulations issued by Florida, New York, California and Maryland will be particularly relevant to our business. Most states do not currently have tissue banking regulations. However, recent incidents of allograft related infections in the industry may stimulate the development of regulation in other states. It is possible that others may make allegations against us or against donor recovery groups or tissue banks, including those with which we have relationships, about non-compliance with applicable FDA regulations or other relevant statutes and regulations. Allegations like these could cause regulators or other authorities to take investigative or other action, or could cause negative publicity for our business and the industry in which we operate. Some of our implants contain tissue derived from animals, commonly referred to as xenografts. Xenograft implants are medical devices that are subject to pre-market approval or clearance by the FDA. We have received FDA clearance on several xenograft implants. However, we may not receive FDA approval or clearance to market new implants as we attempt to expand the quantity of xenograft implants available for distribution. The allograft industry is subject to additional local, state, federal and international government regulations and any increased regulations of our activities could significantly increase the cost of doing business, thereby reducing profitability. Some aspects of our business are subject to additional local, state, federal or international regulation. Changes in the laws or new interpretations of existing laws could negatively affect our business, revenues or prospects, and increase the costs associated with conducting our business. In particular, the procurement and transplantation of allograft tissue is subject to federal regulation under the National Organ Transplant Act, or NOTA, a criminal statute that prohibits the purchase and sale of human organs, including bone and other tissue. NOTA permits the payment of reasonable expenses associated with the transportation, processing, preservation, quality control and storage of human tissue. If NOTA were amended or interpreted in a way that made us unable to include some of these costs in the amounts we charge our customers, it could reduce our revenues and therefore hurt our business. It is possible that more restrictive interpretations or expansions of NOTA could be adopted which could require us to change one or more aspects of our business, at a substantial cost, in order to continue to comply with this statute. A variety of additional local, state, federal and international government laws and regulations govern our business, including those relating to the storage, handling, generation, manufacture and disposal of medical wastes from the processing of tissue. If we fail to conduct our business in compliance with these laws and regulations, we could be subject to significant liabilities for which our insurance may not be adequate. Moreover, such insurance may not always be available in the future on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If our insurance proves to be inadequate to pay a damage award, we may not have sufficient funds to do so, which would harm our financial condition and liquidity. 16 Table of Contents Our success depends on the continued acceptance of our allograft and xenograft implants and technologies by the medical community. New allograft and xenograft implants, technologies or enhancements to our existing implants may never achieve broad market acceptance, which can be affected by numerous factors, including: • lack of clinical acceptance of implants and technologies; • introduction of competitive tissue repair treatment options which render implants and technologies too expensive or obsolete; • lack of availability of third-party reimbursement; and • difficulty training surgeons in the use of tissue implants and technologies. Market acceptance will also depend on our ability to demonstrate that our existing and new implants and technologies are an attractive alternative to existing tissue repair treatment options. Our ability to do so will depend on surgeons’ evaluations of the clinical safety, efficacy, ease of use, reliability and cost-effectiveness of these tissue repair options and technologies. For example, we believe that some in the medical community have lingering concerns over the risk of disease transmission through the use of allografts. Furthermore, we believe that even if the medical community generally accepts our implants and technologies, recommendations and endorsements by influential surgeons will be important to their broad commercial success. If our implants and technologies are not broadly accepted in the marketplace, we may not achieve a competitive position in the market. Rapid technological changes could result in reduced demand for our products. Technologies change rapidly in the industry in which we operate. For example, steady improvements have been made in synthetic human tissue substitutes which compete with our tissue implants. Unlike allografts, synthetic tissue technologies are not dependent on the availability of tissue. If one of our competitors successfully introduces synthetic technologies using recombinant technologies, which stimulate the growth of tissue surrounding an implant, it could result in a decline in demand for tissue implants. We may not be able to respond effectively to technological changes and emerging industry standards, or to successfully identify, develop or support new technologies or enhancements to existing implants in a timely and cost-effective manner, if at all. If we are unable to achieve the improvements in our implants necessary for their successful commercialization, the demand for our implants will suffer. We face intense competition, which could result in reduced acceptance and demand for our implants and technologies. The medical technology/biotechnology industry is intensely competitive. We compete with companies in the United States and internationally that engage in the development and production of medical technologies and processes including: • biotechnology, orthopedic, pharmaceutical, biomaterial and other companies; • academic and scientific institutions; and • public and private research organizations. Many of our competitors have much greater financial, technical, research, marketing, distribution, service and other resources than ours. Moreover, our competitors may offer a broader array of tissue repair treatment products and technologies or may have greater name recognition in the marketplace. For example, we compete with a number of divisions of Johnson & Johnson, a company with significantly greater resources and brand 17 Table of Contents recognition than ours. Our competitors, including several development stage companies, may develop or market technologies that are more effective or commercially attractive than our technologies, or that may render our technologies obsolete. For example, the development of a synthetic tissue product that permits remodeling of bones could reduce the demand for allograft and xenograft-based products and technologies. If we do not manage the medical release of donor tissue into processing in an effective and efficient manner, it could affect adversely profitability. Many factors affect the level and timing of donor medical releases, including the effectiveness of donor screening currently performed by our donor recovery groups, the timely receipt, recording and review of required medical documentation, and employee loss and turnover in our medical records department. We can provide no assurance that releases will occur at levels which maximize our processing efficiency and minimize our cost per allograft processed. Negative publicity concerning methods of human tissue recovery and screening of donor tissue in the industry in which we operate may reduce demand for our allografts and impact the supply of available donor tissue. Media reports or other negative publicity concerning both improper methods of tissue recovery from donors and disease transmission from donated tissue may limit widespread acceptance of our allografts. Unfavorable reports of improper or illegal tissue recovery practices, both in the United States and internationally, as well as incidents of improperly processed tissue leading to transmission of disease, may broadly affect the rate of future tissue donation and market acceptance of allograft technologies. Potential patients may not be able to distinguish our allografts, technologies and the tissue recovery and the processing procedures from those of our competitors or others engaged in tissue recovery. In addition, families of potential donors may become reluctant to agree to donate tissue to for-profit tissue processors. If our patents and the other means we use to protect our intellectual property prove to be inadequate, our competitors could exploit our intellectual property to compete more effectively against us. The law of patents and trade secrets is constantly evolving and often involves complex legal and factual questions. The U.S. government may deny or significantly reduce the coverage we seek our patent applications before or after a patent is issued. We cannot be sure that any particular patent for which we apply will be issued, that the scope of the patent protection will be comprehensive enough to provide adequate protection from competing technologies, that interference proceedings regarding any of our patent applications will not be filed, or that we will achieve any other competitive advantage from a patent. In addition, it is possible that one or more of our patents will be held invalid if challenged or that others will claim rights in or ownership of our patents and other proprietary rights. If any of these events occur, our competitors may be able to use our intellectual property to compete more effectively against us. Because patent applications are secret until patents are actually issued (or until 18 months after a patent application has been filed) and the publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature lags behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that our patent application was the first application filed covering a particular invention. If another party’s rights to an invention are superior to ours, we may not be able to obtain a license to use that party’s invention on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, our competitors, many of which have greater resources than ours, could obtain patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make use of our inventions either in the United States or in international markets. Further, the laws of some foreign countries do not always protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Litigation or regulatory proceedings in the United States or foreign countries also may be necessary to enforce our patent or other intellectual property rights or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of its competitors. These proceedings can be costly, result in development delays, and divert the attention of our management. 18 Table of Contents We rely upon unpatented proprietary techniques and processes in tissue recovery, research and development, tissue processing and quality assurance. It is possible that others will independently develop technology similar to our technology or otherwise gain access to or disclose its proprietary technologies. We may not be able to meaningfully protect our rights in these proprietary technologies, which would reduce our ability to compete. Our success depends in part on our ability to operate without infringing on or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others, and if we are unable to do so we may be liable for damages. We cannot be certain that U.S. or foreign patents or patent applications of other companies do not exist or will not be issued that would prevent us from commercializing our allografts and technologies. Third parties may sue us for infringing or misappropriating their patent or other intellectual property rights. Intellectual property litigation is costly. If we do not prevail in litigation, in addition to any damages we might have to pay, we could be required to stop the infringing activity or obtain a license requiring us to make royalty payments. It is possible that a required license will not be available to us on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, a required license may be non-exclusive, and therefore our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license or are unable to design around another company’s patent, we may be unable to make use of some of the affected technologies or distribute the affected allografts, which would reduce our revenues. The defense costs and settlements for patent infringement lawsuits are not covered by insurance. Patent infringement lawsuits can take years to settle. If we are not successful in our defenses or are not successful in obtaining dismissals of any such lawsuit, legal fees or settlement costs could have a material adverse effect on the our results of operations and the financial position. Osteotech, Inc.—On September 11, 2006, Osteotech, Inc. filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey claiming infringement of one of their patents by our BioCleanse® process. The suit requests (i) that we be enjoined permanently from infringing the patent, (ii) damages, along with treble damages as a result of alleged willful infringement, and (iii) reimbursement of costs and expenses and reasonable attorney fees. In addition to affirmative defenses asserted by the Company in the course of litigation, the Company filed a Motion for Partial Summary Judgment to limit potential damages alleged by Osteotech. On September 25, 2008, the Court granted the Company’s Motion, thereby precluding Osteotech from seeking pre-suit damages. Both parties have filed motions for summary judgment that are being briefed before the court. Although we believe the suit is without merit and will vigorously defend our position, a finding of infringement could have a material adverse effect upon our revenues. We or our competitors may be exposed to product or professional liability claims which could cause us to be liable for damages or cause investors to think we will be liable for similar claims in the future. The development of allografts and technologies for human tissue repair and treatment entails an inherent risk of product or professional liability claims, and substantial product or professional liability claims may be asserted against us. We are party to a number of legal proceedings relating to product liability. The implantation of donated human tissue products creates the potential for transmission of communicable diseases. Although we comply with Federal and state regulations and guidelines intended to prevent communicable disease transmission, and our tissue suppliers are also required to comply with such regulations, there can be no assurances that: (i) our tissue suppliers will comply with such regulations intended to prevent communicable disease transmissions; (ii) even if such compliance is achieved, that our products have not been or will not be associated with transmission of disease; or (iii) a patient otherwise infected with disease would not erroneously assert a claim that the use of our products resulted in disease transmission. 19 Table of Contents We currently have $20 million of product liability insurance and $20 million of professional liability insurance to cover claims. This amount of insurance may not be adequate for current claims if we are not successful in our defenses, and furthermore, we may not have adequate insurance coverage for any future claims that arise. Moreover, insurance covering our business may not always be available in the future on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If our insurance proves to be inadequate to pay a damage award, we may not have sufficient funds to do so, which would harm our financial condition and liquidity. In addition, successful product liability claims made against one of our competitors could cause claims to be made against us or expose us to a perception that we are vulnerable to similar claims. Claims against us, regardless of their merit or potential outcome, may also hurt our ability to obtain surgeon endorsement of our allografts or to expand our business. Biomedical Tissue Service, Ltd.—We have been named as a party, along with a number of other defendants, in tort based lawsuits relating to the recall of tissue recovered by Biomedical Tissue Service, Ltd., an unaffiliated recovery agency (“BTS”). As of December 31, 2008, there are 569 lawsuits pending against RTI related to the recall. An additional 351 have been dismissed, of which 322 are being appealed by the plaintiffs. As of December 31, 2008, our subsidiary TMI had a total of 74 suits pending related to BTS, with 42 suits dismissed, of which 22 are being appealed. These lawsuits generally allege that we were negligent in not discovering deficiencies in recovery practices at BTS and include related claims for matters such as misrepresentation and negligence. Where specific damages have been identified, the actions seek compensatory damages in ranges of $15,000 to $5 million and punitive damages in ranges of $75,000 to $10 million. On October 20, 2006, we filed a joint motion in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey to dismiss the claims based on scientific evidence that it is impossible for sterilized tissue to transmit infections to implant recipients. On October 22, 2008, the Court ruled substantially in favor of our motion that evidence could not be presented that tissue distributed by RTI and Tutogen could transmit disease. Additionally, the Court ruled that recipients of tissue who had not tested positive for any diseases within six months of their transplant have no basis for a claim. We believe that we have meritorious defenses to these claims, and will defend them vigorously. In addition, we believe our existing insurance should cover all litigation expenses and damage awards, if any. Product and professional liability insurance of approximately $10 million is currently available for legal fees or potential settlements relating to the BTS recall. However, if existing insurance coverage is not adequate, the legal fees and settlements for such lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on quarterly results of our operations and financial position. If we are not successful in expanding our distribution activities into international markets, we will not be able to pursue one of our strategies for increasing revenues. Our international distribution strategies vary by market, as well as within each country in which we operate. For example, we distribute only a portion of our line of allograft and xenograft products within each country. Our international operations will be subject to a number of risks which may vary from the risks we face in the United States, including: • the need to obtain regulatory approvals in additional foreign countries before we can offer our implants and technologies for use; • longer distribution-to-collection cycles, as well as difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; • dependence on local distributors; • limited protection of intellectual property rights; • fluctuations in the values of foreign currencies; and • political and economic instability. 20 Table of Contents We may need to secure additional financing to fund our long-term strategic plan. We expect to continue to make investments in our business to support our distribution efforts and future programs and initiatives, which may deplete our available cash balances. We believe that our working capital as of December 31, 2008 will be adequate to fund our on-going operations. However, our future liquidity and capital requirements will depend upon numerous factors, including but not limited to, the progress of our product development and the need for and associated costs relating to regulatory approval, if any, which may be needed to commercialize some of our products under development, or those commercialized products whose regulatory status may change, controlling costs and our ability to continue and grow our product distributions. We may need to raise additional funds through the issuance of equity and/or debt financing in private placements or public offerings to provide funds to meet the needs of our long-term strategic plan. Additional funds may not be available, or if available, may not be available on favorable terms. Further equity financings, if obtained, may substantially dilute the interest of our pre-existing shareholders. Any additional debt financing may contain restrictive terms that limit our operating flexibility. As a result, any future financings or lack of funding could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 