Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information in this Form 10-K. The business, results of operations or financial condition of Palm could be seriously harmed and the trading price of Palm common stock may decline due to any of these risks. Risks Related to Our Business Our operating results are subject to fluctuations, and if we fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price may decrease significantly. Our operating results are difficult to forecast. Our future operating results may fluctuate significantly and may not meet our expectations or those of securities analysts or investors. If this occurs, the price of our stock will likely decline. Many factors may cause fluctuations in our operating results including, but not limited to, the following: · timely introduction and market acceptance of new products and services; · loss or failure of wireless carriers or other key sales channel partners; · quality issues with our products; · competition from other smartphones or other devices; · changes in consumer, business and wireless carrier preferences for our products and services; · failure to achieve product cost and operating expense targets; · changes in and competition for consumer and business spending levels; · failure by our third-party manufacturers or suppliers to meet our quantity and quality requirements for products or product components on time; · failure to add or replace third-party manufacturers or suppliers in a timely manner; · seasonality of demand for some of our products; · changes in terms, pricing or promotional programs; · variations in product costs or the mix of products sold; · excess inventory or insufficient inventory to meet demand; · growth, decline, volatility and changing market conditions in the markets we serve; · litigation brought against us; and · changes in general economic conditions and specific market conditions. Any of the foregoing factors could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to develop and introduce new products and services successfully and in a cost-effective and timely manner, we will not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate revenues will suffer. We operate in a highly competitive, rapidly evolving environment, and our success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products and services that our customers and end users choose to buy. If we are unsuccessful at developing and introducing new products and services that are appealing to our customers and end users with acceptable quality, prices and terms, we will not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate revenues will suffer. The development of new products and services is very difficult and requires high 13 Table of Contents levels of innovation. The development process is also lengthy and costly. If we fail to accurately anticipate technological trends or our end users’ needs or preferences or are unable to complete the development of products and services in a cost-effective and timely fashion, we will be unable to introduce new products and services into the market or successfully compete with other providers. As we introduce new or enhanced products or integrate new technology into new or existing products, we face risks including, among other things, disruption in customers’ ordering patterns, excessive levels of older product inventories, delivering sufficient supplies of new products to meet customers’ demand, possible product and technology defects and a potentially different sales and support environment. Premature announcements or leaks of new products, features or technologies may exacerbate some of these risks. Our failure to manage the transition to newer products or the integration of newer technology into new or existing products could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our products may contain errors or defects, which could result in the rejection or return of our products, damage to our reputation, lost revenues, diverted development resources and increased service costs, warranty claims and litigation. Our products are complex and must meet stringent user requirements. In addition, we warrant that our products will be free of defect for 90 to 365 days after the date of purchase, depending on the product. In Europe, we are required in some countries to provide a two-year warranty for certain defects. In addition, certain of our contracts with wireless carriers include epidemic failure clauses with low thresholds that we have in some instances exceeded. If invoked, these clauses may entitle the wireless carrier to return or obtain credits for products in inventory or to cancel outstanding purchase orders. In addition, we must develop our hardware and software application products quickly to keep pace with the rapidly changing mobile-product market, and we have a history of frequently introducing new products. Products as sophisticated as ours are likely to contain undetected errors or defects, especially when first introduced or when new models or versions are released. Our products may not be free from errors or defects after commercial shipments have begun, which could result in the rejection of our products, damage claims, litigation and recalls and jeopardize our relationship with wireless carriers. End users may also reject or find issues with our products and have a right to return them even if the products are free from errors or defects. In either case, returns or quality issues could result in damage to our reputation, lost revenues, diverted development resources, increased customer service and support costs, additional contractual obligations to wireless carriers and warranty claims and litigation which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to compete effectively with existing or new competitors, we could experience price reductions, reduced demand for our products and services, reduced margins and loss of market share, and our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. The markets for our products are highly competitive, and we expect increased competition in the future, particularly as companies from established industry segments, such as mobile handset, personal computer and consumer electronics, enter these markets or increasingly expand and market their competitive product offerings or both. Some of our competitors or potential competitors possess capabilities developed over years of serving customers in their respective markets that might enable them to compete more effectively than we compete in certain segments. In addition, many of our competitors have significantly greater engineering, technical, manufacturing, sales, marketing and financial resources and capabilities than we do. These competitors may be able to respond more rapidly than we can to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements, including introducing a greater number and variety of products than we can. They may also be in a better position financially or otherwise to acquire and integrate companies and technologies that enhance their competitive positions and limit our competitiveness. In addition, they may devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we do. They may have lower costs and be better able to withstand 14 Table of Contents lower prices in order to gain market share at our expense. They may also be more diversified than we are and better able to leverage their other businesses, products and services to be able to accept lower returns in the smartphone market and gain market share. Finally, these competitors may bring with them customer loyalties, which may limit our ability to compete despite superior product offerings. Our devices compete with a variety of mobile devices. Our principal competitors include: mobile handset and smartphone manufacturers such as Apple, Asustek, HTC, LG, Motorola, Nokia, Pantech, RIM, Samsung and Sony-Ericsson; and computing device companies such as Acer, Hewlett-Packard and Mio Technology. In addition, our products compete for a share of disposable income and business spending on consumer electronic, telecommunications and computing products such as MP3 players, iPods, media/photo viewers, digital cameras, personal media players, digital storage devices, handheld gaming devices, GPS devices and other such devices. Some of our competitors, such as Asustek and HTC, produce smartphones as wireless-carrier-branded devices in addition to their own branded devices. As technology advances, we also expect to compete with mobile phones without branded operating systems that synchronize with personal computers, as well as ultra-mobile personal computers and laptop computers with wide area network or data cards with VoIP, and WiFi phones with VoIP. Some competitors sell or license server, desktop and/or laptop computing products, software and/or recurring services in addition to mobile products and may choose to market their mobile products at a discounted price or give them away for free with their other products or services, which could negatively affect our ability to compete. A number of our competitors have longer and closer relationships with the senior management of business customers who decide which products and technologies will be deployed in their business. Many competitors have larger and more established sales forces calling on wireless carriers and business customers and therefore could contact a greater number of potential customers with more frequency. Consequently, these competitors could have a better competitive position than we do, which could result in wireless carriers and business customers deciding not to choose our products and services, which would adversely impact our revenues. Successful new product introductions or enhancements by our competitors could cause intense price competition or make our products obsolete. To remain competitive, we must continue to invest significant resources in research and development, sales and marketing and customer support. We cannot be sure that we will have sufficient resources to make these investments or that we will be able to make the technological advances necessary to be competitive. Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced demand for our products and services, increased expenses, reduced margins and loss of market share. Failure to compete successfully against current or future competitors could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are highly dependent on wireless carriers for the success of our smartphone products. The success of our business strategy and our smartphone products is highly dependent on our ability to establish new relationships and build on our existing relationships with domestic and international wireless carriers. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in establishing new relationships, or maintaining or advancing existing relationships with wireless carriers or that these wireless carriers will act in a manner that will promote the success of our smartphone products. Factors that are largely within the control of wireless carriers, but which are important to the success of our smartphone products, include: · testing of our smartphone products on wireless carriers’ networks; · quality and coverage area of wireless voice and data services offered by the wireless carriers; · the degree to which wireless carriers facilitate the introduction of and actively market, advertise, promote, distribute and resell our smartphone products; 15 Table of Contents · the extent to which wireless carriers require specific hardware and software features on our smartphone products to be used on their networks; · timely build-out of advanced wireless carrier networks that enhance the user experience for data-centric services through higher speed and “always on” functionality; · contractual terms and conditions imposed on us by wireless carriers that, in some circumstances, could limit our ability to make similar products available through competitive wireless carriers in some market segments; · wireless carriers’ pricing requirements and subsidy programs; and · pricing and other terms and conditions of voice and data rate plans that the wireless carriers offer for use with our smartphone products. For example, flat data rate pricing plans offered by some wireless carriers may represent some risk to our relationship with such wireless carriers. While flat data pricing helps customer adoption of the data services offered by wireless carriers and therefore highlights the advantages of the data applications of our smartphone products, such plans may not allow our smartphones to contribute as much average revenue per user to wireless carriers as when they are priced by usage, and therefore reduces our differentiation from other, non-data devices in the view of the wireless carriers. In addition, if wireless carriers charge higher rates than consumers are willing to pay, the acceptance of our wireless solutions could be less than anticipated and our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected. Wireless carriers have substantial bargaining power as we enter into agreements with them. They may require contract terms that are difficult for us to satisfy and could result in higher costs to complete certification requirements and negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, we do not have agreements with some of the wireless carriers with whom we do business internationally and, in some cases, the agreements may be with third-party distributors and may not pass through rights to us or provide us with recourse or contact with the wireless carrier. The absence of agreements means that, with little or no notice, these wireless carriers could refuse to continue to purchase all or some of our products or change the terms under which they purchase our products. If these wireless carriers were to stop purchasing our products, we may be unable to replace the lost sales channel on a timely basis and our results of operations could be harmed. Wireless carriers also significantly affect our ability to develop and launch products for use on their wireless networks. If we fail to address the needs of wireless carriers, identify new product and service opportunities or modify or improve our smartphone products in response to changes in technology, industry standards or wireless carrier requirements, our products could rapidly become less competitive or obsolete. If we fail to timely develop smartphone products that meet wireless carrier product planning cycles or fail to deliver sufficient quantities of products in a timely manner to wireless carriers, those wireless carriers may choose to emphasize similar products from our competitors and thereby reduce their focus on our products which would have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Wireless carriers, who control most of the distribution and sale of and virtually all of the access for smartphone products, could commoditize smartphones, thereby reducing the average selling prices and margins for our smartphone products which would have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if wireless carriers move away from subsidizing the purchase of smartphone products, this could significantly reduce the sales or growth rate of sales of smartphone products. This could have an adverse impact on our business, revenues and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents We could be exposed to significant fluctuations in revenue for our smartphone products based on our strategic relationships with wireless carriers. Because of their large sales channels, wireless carriers may purchase large quantities of our products prior to launch so that the products are widely available. Reorders of products may fluctuate quarter to quarter, depending on end-user demand and inventory levels required by the wireless carriers. As we develop new strategic relationships and launch new products with wireless carriers, our smartphone products-related revenue could be subject to significant fluctuation based on the timing of wireless carrier product launches, wireless carrier inventory requirements, marketing efforts and our ability to forecast and satisfy wireless carrier and end-user demand. We are dependent on a concentrated number of significant customers and the loss or credit failure of any of those customers could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our three largest customers in terms of revenue represented 65% of our revenues during fiscal year 2008 compared to 56% during fiscal year 2007 and 55% during fiscal year 2006. We determine our largest customers in terms of revenue to be those who represent 10% or more of our total revenues for the year. We expect this trend of revenue concentration with our largest customers, particularly with wireless carriers, to continue. If any significant customer discontinues its relationship with us for any reason, or reduces or postpones current or expected purchases from us, it could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our largest customers in terms of outstanding customer accounts receivable balances accounted for 61% of our accounts receivable at the end of fiscal year 2008 compared to 63% at the end of fiscal year 2007 and 66% at the end of fiscal year 2006. We determine our largest customers in terms of outstanding customer accounts to be those who have outstanding customer accounts receivable balances at the period end of 10% or more of our total net accounts receivables. We expect this trend of significant credit concentration with our largest customers, particularly with wireless carriers, to continue, concentrating our bad debt risks and the costs of mitigating those risks. We routinely monitor the financial condition of our customers and review the credit history of each new customer. While we believe that our allowances for doubtful accounts adequately reflect the credit risk of our customers, as well as historical trends and other economic factors, we cannot assure you that such allowances will be accurate or sufficient. If any of our significant customers defaults on its account, or if we experience significant credit expense for any reason, it could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If our products do not meet wireless carrier and governmental or regulatory certification or other requirements, we will not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate revenues will suffer. We are required to certify our products with governmental and regulatory agencies and with the wireless carriers for use on their networks and to meet other requirements. These processes can be time consuming, could delay the offering of our smartphone products on wireless carrier networks and could affect our ability to timely deliver products to customers. As a result, wireless carriers may choose to offer or consumers may choose to buy similar products from our competitors and thereby reduce their purchases of our products, which would have a negative impact on our smartphone products sales volumes, our revenues and our cost of revenues. 17 Table of Contents If we do not correctly forecast demand for our products, we could have costly excess production or inventories or we may not be able to secure sufficient or cost-effective quantities of our products or production materials and our revenues, gross profit and financial condition could be adversely impacted. The demand for our products depends on many factors, including pricing and channel inventory levels, and is difficult to forecast due in part to variations in economic conditions, changes in consumer and business preferences, relatively short product life cycles, changes in competition, seasonality and reliance on key sales channel partners. It is particularly difficult to forecast demand by individual product. Significant unanticipated fluctuations in demand, the timing and disclosure of new product releases or the timing of key sales orders could result in costly excess production or inventories or the inability to secure sufficient, cost-effective quantities of our products or production materials. This could adversely impact our revenues, gross profit and financial condition. We depend on our suppliers, some of which are the sole source and some of which are our competitors, for certain components, software applications and elements of our technology, and our production or reputation could be harmed if these suppliers were unable or unwilling to meet our demand or technical requirements on a timely and/or a cost-effective basis. Our products contain software and hardware, including liquid crystal displays, touch panels, memory chips, microprocessors, cameras, radios and batteries, which are procured from a variety of suppliers, including some who are our competitors. The cost, quality and availability of software and hardware are essential to the timely and successful development, production and sale of our device products. For example, components such as radio technologies and software such as email applications are critical to the functionality of our smartphones. Some components, such as liquid crystal displays and related integrated circuits, digital signal processors, microprocessors, radio frequency components and other discrete components, come from sole source suppliers. Alternative sources are not always available or may be prohibitively expensive. In addition, even when we have multiple qualified suppliers, we may compete with other purchasers for allocation of scarce components. Some components come from companies with whom we compete. If suppliers are unable or unwilling to meet our demand for components and if we are unable to obtain alternative sources or if the price for alternative sources is prohibitive, our ability to maintain timely and cost-effective production of our products will be harmed. Shortages may affect the timing and volume of production for some of our products as well as increase our costs due to premium prices paid for those components and longer-term commitments to ensure availability of those components. Some of our suppliers may be capacity-constrained due to high industry demand for some components and relatively long lead times to expand capacity. Our product strategy is substantially dependent on the operating systems that we include in our devices and those operating systems face significant competition and may not be preferred by our wireless carrier partners or end users. We provide a choice of operating systems for our smartphones to provide a differentiated experience for our users. Our smartphones currently feature either the Palm OS or Windows Mobile OS. In addition, we are developing a new OS that we expect to use in some of our future smartphones. Our licenses to the Palm OS and Windows Mobile OS are subject to the terms of the agreements we have with ACCESS Systems Americas and Microsoft, respectively. Our business could be harmed if we were to breach the license agreements and cause our licensors to terminate our licenses. Furthermore, although ACCESS Systems and Microsoft offer some level of indemnification for damages arising from lawsuits involving their respective operating systems and from damages relating to intellectual property infringement caused by such operating systems, we could still be adversely affected by a determination adverse to our licensors, product changes that may be advisable or required due to such lawsuits or the failure of our licensors to indemnify us adequately. 18 Table of Contents There is significant competition from makers of smartphones that differentiate their products in part through alternative OS software. A number of competitors offer alternative Windows Mobile OS products. Google is heading a group that has introduced the Android OS for which our competitors are developing products. The LiMo Foundation is another consortium that is developing a Linux-based mobile operating system. Other competitors have or are developing proprietary operating systems, including Apple’s OS X, Nokia’s Symbian OS, RIM’s OS and various Linux-based operating systems. These and other competitors could devote greater resources to the development and promotion of alternative operating systems and to the support of the third-party developer community, which could attract the attention of influential user segments and our existing and potential customers and end users. Moreover, some of our largest customers, including Verizon Wireless (a venture of Verizon Communications and Vodafone Group) and AT&T, have joined the consortiums developing or indicated their support for rival operating systems, including the LiMo Foundation and Android, respectively. Wireless carriers may demonstrate a preference for rival operating systems, thereby giving preference to our competitor’s products and making acceptance of our products more difficult among our key wireless carrier partners. In addition, this could require us to raise the performance and differentiation standards for the operating systems that we offer in order to remain competitive. We cannot assure you that the operating systems we develop or license or our efforts to innovate using those operating systems will continue to draw the customer interest necessary to provide us with a level of competitive differentiation. If the use of the Palm OS, the Windows Mobile OS or proprietary operating systems incorporating open technologies in our current or future products does not continue to be competitive, our revenues and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our business is substantially dependent on our ability to develop our new operating system. We are currently developing a new OS and related next-generation systems software for use in some of our future smartphones. We have announced that we expect this new OS and software to be completed in time to ship products based on this platform in the first half of calendar year 2009. If we are unable to develop the OS or related software on this timeline, or if the new OS and software is not accepted by our wireless carrier customers or end users, the robustness, competitiveness and technological viability of our smartphone product lines and our product roadmap would be adversely impacted. As a result, our reputation, ability to compete, revenues, results of operations and financial condition would also be adversely impacted. In addition, if the third-party developer community does not embrace the new OS and produce applications that will run on our smartphones, it may adversely affect acceptance of our devices by our wireless carrier customers and end users and adversely affect our ability to compete, our revenues and our results of operations. If we are unable to obtain key technologies from third parties on a timely basis and free from errors or defects, we may have to delay or cancel the release of certain products or features in our products or incur increased costs. We license third-party software for use in our products, including the Palm OS and Windows Mobile OS. Our ability to release and sell our products, as well as our reputation, could be harmed if the third-party technologies are not delivered to us in a timely manner, on acceptable business terms or contain errors or defects that are not discovered and fixed prior to release of our products and we are unable to obtain alternative technologies on a timely and cost effective basis to use in our products. As a result, our product shipments could be delayed, our offering of features could be reduced or we may need to divert our development resources from other business objectives, any of which could adversely affect our reputation, business and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents The order issued by the International Trade Commission, or ITC, banning import of future models of 3G mobile broadband handsets containing chips, chipsets and software of Qualcomm Incorporated or other litigation between Qualcomm and Broadcom Corporation could hinder our ability to provide certain models of our smartphone products to our customers and to compete effectively, and could adversely affect our customer relationships, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. The ITC has issued an order banning the import of future models of 3G mobile broadband handsets containing Qualcomm chips, chipsets and software after ruling that Qualcomm’s cellular chips, chipsets and software infringe on a Broadcom patent relating to power-saving technology. In addition, the ITC also issued a cease-and-desist order that prevents Qualcomm from engaging in certain activities within the United States related to the infringing chips. The banned chips, chipsets and software are used in handheld wireless communications devices that are capable of operating on 3G cellular telephone networks, such as EvDO and wCDMA networks operated by wireless carriers such as AT&T, Sprint and Verizon. An exception to the ban allows the import of handheld wireless communications devices that are of the same model as handheld wireless communications devices that were being imported for sale to the general public on or before June 7, 2007. Palm filed an appeal of the ruling by the ITC with the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, or CAFC. Palm requested the CAFC overturn the ITC Order as it relates to Palm products because Palm was not a party to the underlying ITC action and asked the CAFC to stay implementation of the Order. The CAFC granted Palm’s stay request until completion of the appeal. Should Palm lose the appeal or were the stay lifted, our ability to import and sell certain models of our smartphone products containing the affected Qualcomm chips, chipsets, and software could be affected by several factors, including the scope of the exclusion on the import ban (for example, whether a particular model of a smartphone previously sold by us to a carrier before June 7, 2007 will be treated as a “new” model when it is launched with a different carrier after June 7, 2007) and the effectiveness of the workaround that Qualcomm has announced to avoid infringement of the Broadcom patent (for example, the workaround may require additional testing, certification and approval before it can be used for our smartphone products sold to carriers). In addition, the effectiveness of any workaround or other means of meeting the requirements of the import ban may be limited by Qualcomm’s ability to provide services and support in implementing the workaround or otherwise addressing the impact of the import ban. The workaround and other means of addressing the import ban can be time consuming, can delay the offering of our smartphone products on carrier networks and also affect our ability to deliver products to customers in a timely manner. As a result, carriers may choose to offer, or consumers may choose to buy, unaffected products from our competitors and thereby reduce their purchases of our products, causing a negative impact on our smartphone products sales volumes, our revenues and our cost of revenues. Qualcomm and Broadcom also continue to be engaged in litigation in at least two U.S. District Courts regarding Qualcomm’s chipsets and software used in wireless handsets and related support services. The outcome of these litigations may result in the non-availability of certain Qualcomm chipsets that we currently use or intend to use in our smartphones and/or related support services. Qualcomm is pursuing workarounds to avoid infringement of Broadcom’s patents but the ultimate success of any such workarounds is uncertain. An adverse outcome in any of these cases without an effective workaround could require modifications to our future smartphone roadmap, thereby delaying product introductions and adversely affect our customer relationships, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. 20 Table of Contents We rely on third parties, some of which are our competitors, to design, manufacture, distribute, warehouse and support our products, and our reputation, revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected if these third parties fail to meet their performance obligations. We outsource most of our hardware design and certain software development to third-party manufacturers, some of whom compete with us. We depend on their design expertise, and we rely on them to design our products at satisfactory quality levels. If our third-party manufacturers fail to provide quality hardware design or software development, our reputation and revenues could suffer. These third-party designers and manufacturers have access to our intellectual property which increases the risk of infringement or misappropriation of such intellectual property. In addition, these third parties may claim ownership rights in certain of the intellectual property developed for our products, which may limit our ability to have these products manufactured by others. We outsource all of our manufacturing requirements to third-party manufacturers at their international facilities, which are located primarily in China, Taiwan and Brazil. In general our products are manufactured by sole source providers. We depend on these third parties to produce a sufficient volume of our products in a timely fashion and at satisfactory quality levels. In addition, we rely on our third-party manufacturers to place orders with suppliers for the components they need to manufacture our products and to track appropriately the shipment and inventory of those components with our orders. If they fail to place timely and sufficient orders with suppliers and appropriately maintain component inventories, our revenues and cost of revenues could suffer. Our reliance on third-party manufacturers in foreign countries exposes us to risks that are not in our control, including outbreaks of disease (such as an outbreak of bird flu), economic slowdowns, labor disruptions, trade restrictions, political conflicts and other events that could result in quarantines, shutdowns or closures of our third-party manufacturers or their suppliers. The cost, quality and availability of third-party manufacturing operations are essential to the successful production and sale of our products. If our third-party manufacturers fail to produce quality products on time and in sufficient quantities, our reputation, business and results of operations could suffer. These manufacturers could refuse to continue to manufacture all or some of the units of our devices that we require or change the terms under which they manufacture our devices. If these manufacturers were to stop manufacturing our devices, we may be unable to replace the lost manufacturing capacity on a timely basis and our results of operations could be harmed. If these manufacturers were to change the terms under which they manufacture for us, our manufacturing costs and cost of revenues could increase. While we may have contractual remedies under manufacturing agreements, our business and reputation could be harmed. In addition, our contractual relationships are principally with the manufacturers of our products, and not with component suppliers. In the absence of a contract with the manufacturer that requires it to obtain and pass through warranty and indemnity rights with respect to component suppliers, we may not have recourse to any third party in the event of a component failure. We may choose from time to time to transition to or add new third-party manufacturers. If we transition the manufacturing of any product to a new manufacturer, there is a risk of disruption in manufacturing and our revenues and results of operations could be adversely impacted. The learning curve and implementation associated with adding a new third-party manufacturer may adversely impact our revenues and results of operations. We rely on third-party distribution and warehouse services providers to warehouse and distribute our products. Our contract warehouse facilities are physically separated from our contract manufacturing locations. This requires additional lead-time to deliver products to customers. If we are shipping products near the end of a fiscal quarter, this extra time could result in us not meeting anticipated shipment volumes for that quarter, which may negatively impact our revenues for that fiscal quarter. Any disruption of distribution facility services could have a negative impact on our revenues and results of operations. As a result of economic conditions or other factors, our distribution and warehouse services providers may close or move their facilities with little notice to us, which could cause disruption in our ability to deliver products. With little or no notice, these distribution and warehouse services providers could refuse to continue to 21 Table of Contents provide distribution and warehouse services for all or some of our devices, fail to provide the quality of services and security that we require or change the terms under which they provide such services. Any disruption of distribution and warehouse services could have a negative impact on our revenues and results of operations. Changes in transportation schedules or the timing of deliveries due to shipping problems, wireless carrier financial difficulties, inaccurate forecasts of demand, acts of nature or other business interruptions could cause transportation delays and increase our costs for both receipt of inventory and shipment of products to our customers. If these types of disruptions occur, our reputation and results of operations could be adversely impacted. We outsource most of the warranty support, product repair and technical support for our products to third-party providers, which are located around the world. We depend on their expertise, and we rely on them to provide satisfactory levels of service. If our third-party providers fail to provide consistent quality service in a timely manner and sustain customer satisfaction, our reputation and results of operations could suffer. As a result of the credit agreement we entered into, we have a significant amount of debt. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service or repay all of our indebtedness, including the term loan, and we may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In October 2007, we entered into a credit agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., or the Credit Agreement, which governs a senior secured term loan in the aggregate principal amount of $400.0 million, or the Term Loan, and a credit facility in the aggregate principal amount of $30.0 million, or the Revolver. As a result of this Credit Agreement, we have significant indebtedness and substantial debt service requirements. Our ability to meet our payment and other obligations under our indebtedness depends on our ability to generate significant cash flows in the future. Our ability to generate cash is subject to our future operating performance and the demand for, and price levels of, our current and future products and services. However, our ability to generate cash is also subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. There is no assurance that our business will generate cash flows from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our existing or any new credit facilities or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our payment obligations under our indebtedness and to fund other liquidity needs. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service or repayment obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or operations, seek additional capital, restructure or refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, including the Term Loan, or incur additional debt. There is no assurance that we would be able to take any of these actions on commercially reasonable terms or at all. There is also no assurance that these actions would be successful and permit us to meet our scheduled debt service or repayment obligations or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of our existing or future debt agreements. In the absence of such cash flow and capital resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to realize and obtain proceeds from them adequate to meet our debt service and other obligations. The Credit Agreement governing the Term Loan and Revolver restricts our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from the disposition. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, or if we otherwise breach the Credit Agreement or related agreements, we will be in default and, as a result: · our debt holders could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable; · our debt holders could exercise their rights and remedies against the collateral securing their debt; · we may trigger cross-acceleration and cross-default provisions under other agreements; and · we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. 22 Table of Contents Although covenants contained in the Credit Agreement governing the Term Loan and the Revolver will limit our ability and the ability of certain of our present and future subsidiaries to incur certain additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. In addition, the Credit Agreement will not prevent certain of our subsidiaries from incurring indebtedness. To the extent that we or our subsidiaries incur additional indebtedness, the related risks that we now face could intensify. Our indebtedness may limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions, place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Restrictive covenants may adversely affect our operations. The Credit Agreement governing the Term Loan and the Revolver contains covenants that may adversely affect our ability to, among other things, finance future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities. Further, the Credit Agreement contains negative covenants limiting our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries, among other things, to incur debt, grant liens, make acquisitions, make certain restricted payments, make investments, sell assets and enter into sale and lease back transactions. Any additional debt we may incur in the future may subject us to further covenants. As a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business and we may be unable to finance future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities. Even if we are able to comply with all of the applicable covenants, the restrictions on our ability to manage our business in our sole discretion could adversely affect our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to take advantage of financings, mergers, acquisitions and other corporate opportunities that we believe would be beneficial to us. Even if we were able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms, or terms that are acceptable to us. Our ability to comply with covenants contained in the Credit Agreement governing the Term Loan and Revolver and any agreements governing other indebtedness may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. Our failure to comply with the covenants contained in any of the debt agreements described above, for any reason, could result in a default under such debt agreements. In addition, if any such default is not cured or waived, the default could result in an acceleration of debt under the Credit Agreement and our other debt instruments that contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions, which could require us to repay or repurchase debt, together with accrued interest, prior to the date it otherwise is due and that could adversely affect our financial condition. Upon a default or cross-default, the collateral agent, at the direction of the lenders under the Credit Agreement could proceed against the collateral, which includes substantially all of our assets. Variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. Under our Credit Agreement, our Term Loan and Revolver bear interest at variable rates and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the principal amount of such indebtedness remained the same, and our operating results would decrease. Interest on the Term Loan is based on LIBOR or the Alternate Base Rate (higher of Prime Rate or Federal Funds Effective Rate plus 0.50%). An increase in the interest rate payable on the Term Loan could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and our ability to make payments on the Term Loan, particularly if the increase is substantial. 23 Table of Contents Third parties have claimed, and may claim in the future, that we are infringing their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling products regardless of whether these claims are successful. In the course of our business, we frequently receive offers to license or claims of infringement of patents held by other parties. For example, as our focus has shifted to smartphone products, we have received, and expect to continue to receive communications from holders of patents related to mobile communication standards. We evaluate the validity and applicability of these patents and determine in each case whether we must negotiate licenses to incorporate or use implicated technologies in our products. Third parties may claim that our customers or we are infringing or contributing to the infringement of their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to infringe or contribute to the infringement of those intellectual property rights and may be required to pay significant damages and obligated either to refrain from the further sale of our products or to license the right to sell our products on an ongoing basis. We may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology, products and services. We may not have direct contractual relationships with some of the component, software and applications providers for our products, and as a result, we may not have indemnification, warranties or other protection with respect to such components, software or applications. Furthermore, intellectual property claims against us or our suppliers may cause us or our customers to delay the introduction of or to stop using our devices or applications for our devices and, as a result, our revenue, business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. The complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of litigation generally increase the risks associated with intellectual property litigation. Moreover, patent litigation has increased due to the increased numbers of cases asserted by intellectual property licensing entities as well as increasing competition and overlap of product functionality in our markets. Intellectual property licensing entities generally do not generate products or services. As a result, we cannot deter their infringement claims based on counterclaims that they infringe patents in our portfolio or by entering cross-licensing arrangements. Claims of intellectual property infringement may also require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements or to indemnify our customers, licensees, ODMs and other third parties with whom we have relationships. However, we may not be able to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us or at all. We also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against the development and sale of our products. These risks associated with patent litigation are exacerbated by the lack of a clear and consistent legal standard for assessing damages in such litigation. We are subject to general commercial litigation and other litigation claims as part of our operations, and we could suffer significant litigation expenses in defending these claims and could be subject to significant damage awards or other remedies. In the course of our business, we receive consumer protection claims, general commercial claims related to the conduct of our business and the performance of our products and services, employment claims and other litigation claims. Any litigation resulting from these claims could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. The complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of consumer, commercial, employment and other litigation increase these risks. We also may be subject to significant damages or equitable remedies regarding the development and sale of our products and operation of our business. 24 Table of Contents Our success largely depends on our ability to hire, retain, integrate and motivate sufficient numbers of qualified personnel, including senior management. Our strategy and our ability to innovate, design and produce new products, sell products, maintain operating margins and control expenses depend on key personnel that may be difficult to replace. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel, including senior management and international personnel. From time to time, we experience turnover in some of our senior management positions. We compensate our employees through a combination of salary, bonuses, benefits and equity compensation. Recruiting and retaining skilled personnel, including software and hardware engineers, is highly competitive, particularly in the San Francisco Bay Area where we are headquartered. If we fail to provide competitive compensation to our employees, it will be difficult to retain, hire and integrate qualified employees and contractors and we may not be able to maintain and expand our business. If we do not retain our senior managers or other key employees for any reason, we risk losing institutional knowledge and experience, expertise and other benefits of continuity and the ability to attract and retain other key employees. In addition, we must carefully balance the growth of our employee base with our current infrastructure, management resources and anticipated revenue growth. If we are unable to manage the growth of our employee base, particularly software and hardware engineers, we may fail to develop and introduce new products successfully and in a cost effective and timely manner. If our revenue growth or employee levels vary significantly, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price may also affect our ability to retain key employees, many of whom have been granted stock options, other equity incentives or both. Palm’s practice has been to provide equity incentives to its employees through the use of stock options and other equity vehicles, but the number of shares available for new options and other forms of securities grants is limited. We may find it difficult to provide competitive stock option grants or other equity incentives and our ability to hire, retain and motivate key personnel may suffer. Recently and in past years, we have initiated reductions in our workforce of both employees and contractors to align our employee base with our anticipated revenue base or areas of focus and we have seen some turnover in our workforce. These reductions have resulted in reallocations of duties, which could result in employee and contractor uncertainty. Reductions in our workforce could make it difficult to attract, motivate and retain employees and contractors, which could affect our ability to deliver our products in a timely fashion and adversely affect our business. We rely on third parties to sell and distribute our products, and we rely on their information to manage our business. Disruption of our relationship with these channel partners, changes in their business practices, their failure to provide timely and accurate information or conflicts among our channels of distribution could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The wireless carriers, distributors, retailers and resellers who sell and distribute our products also sell products offered by our competitors. If our competitors offer our sales channel partners more favorable terms or have more products available to meet their needs or utilize the leverage of broader product lines sold through the channel, those wireless carriers, distributors, retailers and resellers may de-emphasize or decline to carry our products. In addition, certain of our sales channel partners could decide to de-emphasize the product categories that we offer in exchange for other product categories that they believe provide higher returns. If we are unable to maintain successful relationships with these sales channel partners or to expand our distribution channels, our business will suffer. Because we sell our products primarily to wireless carriers, distributors, retailers and resellers, we are subject to many risks, including risks related to product returns, either through the exercise of contractual return rights or as a result of our strategic interest in assisting them in balancing inventories. In addition, these sales channel partners could modify their business practices, such as inventory levels, or seek to modify their contractual terms, such as return rights or payment terms. Unexpected changes in product return requests, inventory levels, payment terms or other practices by these sales channel partners could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. 25 Table of Contents We rely on wireless carriers, distributors, retailers and resellers to provide us with timely and accurate information about their inventory levels as well as sell-through of products purchased from us. We use this information as one of the factors in our forecasting process to plan future production and sales levels, which in turn influences our financial forecasts. We also use this information as a factor in determining the levels of some of our financial reserves. If we do not receive this information on a timely and accurate basis, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely impacted. Distributors, retailers and traditional resellers experience competition from Internet-based resellers that distribute directly to end users, and there is also competition among Internet-based resellers. We also sell our products to end users from our Palm.com website. These varied sales channels could cause conflict among our channels of distribution, which could harm our business, revenues and results of operations. We rely on third parties to manage and operate our e-commerce web store and related telesales call center and disruption to these sales channels could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. We outsource the operations of our e-commerce web store and related telesales call centers to third parties. We depend on their expertise and rely on them to provide satisfactory levels of service. If these third-party providers fail to provide consistent quality service in a timely manner and sustain customer satisfaction, our operations and revenues could suffer. If these third-parties were to stop providing these services, we may be unable to replace them on a timely basis and our results of operations could be harmed. In addition, if these third parties were to change the terms and conditions under which they provide these services, our selling costs could increase. We use third parties to provide significant operational and administrative services, and our ability to satisfy our customers and operate our business could suffer if the level of services is interrupted or does not meet our requirements. We use third parties, some of which are our competitors, to provide services such as data center operations, desktop computer support, facilities services and certain accounting services. Should any of these third parties fail to deliver an adequate level of service on a timely basis, our business could suffer. Some of our operations rely on electronic data systems interfaces with third parties or on the Internet to communicate information. Interruptions in the availability and functionality of systems interfaces or the Internet could adversely impact the operations of these systems and consequently our results of operations. The market for our products is volatile, and changing market conditions, or failure to adjust to changing market conditions, may adversely affect our revenues, results of operations and financial condition, particularly given our size, limited resources and lack of diversification. Over the last few years, we have seen year-over-year declines in the volume of handheld computers while demand for smartphones has generally increased. We expect that the rate of declines in the volume of handheld computer units will continue. We cannot assure you that the smartphone market will continue to grow as forecasted. If we are unable to adequately respond to changes in demand for our products, our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, as our products and product categories mature and face greater competition, we may experience pressure on our product pricing to preserve demand for our products, which would adversely affect our margins, results of operations and financial condition. This reliance on the success of and trends in our industry is compounded by the size of our organization and our focus on smartphones and related products. These factors also make us more dependent on investments of our limited resources. For example, we face many resource allocation decisions, such as: where to focus our research and development, geographic sales and marketing and partnering efforts; which aspects of our business to outsource; which operating systems and email solutions to support; and how to balance among our products. We have shifted the focus of our engineering resources towards the smartphone opportunity. Given the size and undiversified nature of our organization, any error in investment strategy could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. 26 Table of Contents Our products are subject to increasingly stringent laws, standards and other regulatory requirements, and the costs of compliance or failure to comply may adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our products must comply with a variety of laws, standards and other requirements governing, among other things, safety, materials usage, packaging and environmental impacts and must obtain regulatory approvals and satisfy other regulatory concerns in the various jurisdictions where our products are sold. Many of our products must meet standards governing, among other things, interference with other electronic equipment and human exposure to electromagnetic radiation. Failure to comply with such requirements can subject us to liability, additional costs and reputational harm and in severe cases prevent us from selling our products in certain jurisdictions. For example, many of our products are subject to laws and regulations that restrict the use of lead and other substances and require producers of electrical and electronic equipment to assume responsibility for collecting, treating, recycling and disposing of our products when they have reached the end of their useful life. Failure to comply with applicable environmental requirements can result in fines, civil or criminal sanctions and third-party claims. If products we sell in Europe are found to contain more than the permitted percentage of lead or another listed substance, it is possible that we could be forced to recall the products, which could result in substantial replacement costs, contract damage claims from customers, and reputational harm. We are now and expect in the future to become subject to additional requirements in the United States, China and other parts of the world. As a result of these varying and developing requirements throughout the world, we are now facing increasingly complex procurement and design challenges, which, among other things, require us to incur additional costs identifying suppliers and contract manufacturers who can provide, and otherwise obtain, compliant materials, parts and end products and re-designing products so that they comply with these and the many other requirements applicable to them. Allegations of health risks associated with electromagnetic fields and wireless communications devices, and the lawsuits and publicity relating to them, regardless of merit, could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. There has been public speculation about possible health risks to individuals from exposure to electromagnetic fields, or radio signals, from base stations and from the use of mobile devices. While a substantial amount of scientific research by various independent research bodies has indicated that these radio signals, at levels within the limits prescribed by public health authority standards and recommendations, present no evidence of adverse effect to human health, we cannot assure you that future studies, regardless of their scientific basis, will not suggest a link between electromagnetic fields and adverse health effects. Government agencies, international health organizations and other scientific bodies are currently conducting research into these issues. In addition, other mobile device companies have been named in individual plaintiff and class action lawsuits alleging that radio emissions from mobile phones have caused or contributed to brain tumors and the use of mobile phones poses a health risk. Although our products are certified as meeting applicable public health authority safety standards and recommendations, even a perceived risk of adverse health effects from smartphones or other handheld devices could adversely impact use of such devices or subject us to costly litigation and could harm our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. If third parties infringe our intellectual property or if we are unable to secure and protect our intellectual property, we may expend significant resources enforcing our rights or suffer competitive injury. Our success depends in large part on our proprietary technology and other intellectual property rights. We have a significant investment in the rights to the Palm brand and related trademarks and will continue to invest in that brand and in our patent portfolio. 27 Table of Contents We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. Our intellectual property, particularly our patents, may not provide us a significant competitive advantage. If we fail to protect or to enforce our intellectual property rights successfully, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our results of operations. Our pending patent and trademark applications for registration may not be allowed, or others may challenge the validity or scope of our patents or trademarks, including patent or trademark applications or registrations. Even if our patents or trademark registrations are issued and maintained, these patents or trademarks may not be of adequate scope or benefit to us or may be held invalid and unenforceable against third parties. We may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and police our intellectual property rights. Effective policing of the unauthorized use of our products or intellectual property is difficult and litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights. Intellectual property litigation is not only expensive, but time-consuming, regardless of the merits of any claim, and could divert attention of our management from operating our business. Despite our efforts, we may not be able to detect infringement and may lose competitive position in the market before we do so. In addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. Intellectual property rights may also be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries, which could make it easier for competitors to capture market share. In the past, there have been leaks of proprietary information associated with our intellectual property. We have implemented a security plan to reduce the risk of future leaks of proprietary information; however, we cannot assure you that the security plan will be able to prevent the risk of all leaks of proprietary information. In addition, we may not be successful in preventing those who have obtained our proprietary information through past leaks from using our technology to produce competing products or in preventing future leaks of proprietary information. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, existing laws, contractual provisions and remedies afford only limited protection. Intellectual property lawsuits are subject to inherent uncertainties due to, among other things, the complexity of the technical issues involved, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in asserting intellectual property claims. Attempts may be made to copy or reverse engineer aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to protect our proprietary rights against unauthorized third-party copying or use. The unauthorized use of our technology or of our proprietary information by competitors could have an adverse effect on our ability to sell our products. We have an international presence in countries whose laws may not provide protection of our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, which may make it more difficult for us to protect our intellectual property. As part of our business strategy, we target customers and relationships with suppliers and ODMs in countries with large populations and propensities for adopting new technologies. However, many of these countries do not address to the same extent as the United States misappropriation of intellectual property or deter others from developing similar, competing technologies or intellectual property. Effective protection of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries. As a result, we may not be able to effectively prevent competitors in these regions from infringing our intellectual property rights, which would reduce our competitive advantage and ability to compete in those regions and negatively impact our business. 28 Table of Contents Our future results could be harmed by economic, political, regulatory and other risks associated with international sales and operations. Because we sell our products worldwide and most of the facilities where our devices are manufactured, distributed and supported are located outside the United States, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, such as: · changes in foreign currency exchange rates; · changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions, particularly in emerging markets; · changes in international relations; · trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; · changes in or interpretation of tax laws; · compliance with a wide variety of laws and regulations which may have civil and/or criminal consequences for us and our officers and directors who we indemnify; · difficulty in managing widespread sales operations; and · difficulty in managing a geographically dispersed workforce in compliance with diverse local laws and customs. In addition, we are subject to changes in demand for our products resulting from exchange rate fluctuations that make our products relatively more or less expensive in international markets. If exchange rate fluctuations occur, our business and results of operations could be harmed by decreases in demand for our products or reductions in margins. While we sell our products worldwide, we have limited experience with sales and marketing in some countries. There can be no assurance that we will be able to market and sell our products in all of our targeted international markets. If our international efforts are not successful, our business growth and results of operations could be harmed. We may be required to record impairment charges in future quarters as a result of the decline in value of our investments in auction rate securities. We hold a variety of interest bearing auction rate securities, or ARS, that represent investments in pools of assets, including commercial paper, collateralized debt obligations, credit linked notes and credit derivative products. These ARS investments were intended to provide liquidity via an auction process that resets the applicable interest rate at predetermined calendar intervals, allowing investors to either roll over their holdings or gain immediate liquidity by selling such interests at par. The recent uncertainties in the credit markets have affected all of our holdings in ARS investments and, during fiscal year 2008, auctions for our investments in these securities have failed to settle on their respective settlement dates. Consequently, the investments are not currently liquid and we will not be able to access these funds until a future auction of these investments is successful or a buyer is found outside of the auction process. We may decide to hold these investments for a long time or to sell them at a substantial discount if we need liquidity. Maturity dates for these ARS investments range from 2017 to 2052. The valuation of our investment portfolio, including our investment in ARS, is subject to uncertainties that are difficult to predict. Factors that may impact its valuation include changes to credit ratings of the securities as well as to the underlying assets supporting those securities, rates of default of the underlying assets, underlying collateral value, discount rates, liquidity and ongoing strength and quality of credit markets. 29 Table of Contents Although we currently have the ability and intent to hold these ARS investments until a recovery of the auction process or until maturity, if the current market conditions deteriorate further, or the anticipated recovery in market values does not occur, we may be required to record additional impairment charges in future quarters. Our ability to utilize our net operating losses may be limited if we engage in transactions which bring cumulative change in ownership for Palm to 50% or more. As a result of the recapitalization transaction with Elevation Partners, we experienced a change in our ownership of approximately 27% as of October 24, 2007. If over a rolling three-year period, the cumulative change in our ownership exceeds 50%, our ability to utilize our net operating losses to offset future taxable income may be limited. This would limit the net operating loss available to offset taxable income each year following the cumulative change in our ownership over 50%. In the event the usage of these net operating losses is subject to limitation and we are profitable, our earnings and cash flows could be adversely impacted due to our increased tax liability. If we continue to experience net losses over an extended period of time, we may need to establish a valuation allowance on our deferred tax asset relating to our net operating loss carryforwards, which could adversely affect our results of operations. During the past four quarters, we have generated domestic net operating loss carryforwards that resulted in an increase in our existing deferred tax assets. If the current trends and market conditions continue and if we continue to generate net operating losses, we may be in a cumulative loss position in fiscal year 2009 and will need to evaluate increasing the valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets. The key components of this evaluation are, among other things, considering all of the positive and negative evidence in existence at that time, including the cumulative results of operations in recent years, the nature of recent losses, forecasts of a return to profitability and the length of tax loss carryforward periods. We will continue to assess whether an increase in the valuation allowance is necessary each quarter by considering all of the positive and negative evidence in existence at that time and, depending upon the nature and weighting of such evidence, a substantial increase in the valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets may be required in the near term, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to audit by the Internal Revenue Service and other taxing authorities. Any assessment arising from an audit and the cost of any related dispute could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our operations are subject to income and transaction taxes in the United States and in multiple foreign jurisdictions and to review or audit by the Internal Revenue Service and state, local and foreign tax authorities. While we strongly believe our tax positions are compliant with applicable tax laws and regulations, our positions could be subject to dispute by the taxing authorities. Any such dispute could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. We may need or find it advisable to seek additional funding which may not be available or which may result in substantial dilution of the value of our common stock. We currently believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated operating cash requirements and debt service or repayment requirements for at least the next 12 months. We could be required to seek additional funding if our expectations are not met. Even if our expectations are met, we may find it advisable to seek additional funding. If we seek additional funding, adequate funds may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, or at all, we may be unable to adequately fund our business plans and it could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if funds are available, the issuance of equity securities or securities convertible into equity could dilute the value of shares of our common stock and cause the market price to fall and the issuance of additional debt could impose restrictive covenants that could impair our ability to engage in certain business transactions. 30 Table of Contents We may pursue strategic acquisitions and investments which could have an adverse impact on our business if they are unsuccessful. We have made acquisitions in the past and will continue to evaluate other acquisition opportunities that could provide us with additional product or service offerings or with additional industry expertise, assets and capabilities. Acquisitions could result in difficulties integrating acquired operations, products, technology, internal controls, personnel and management teams and result in the diversion of capital and management’s attention away from other business issues and opportunities. If we fail to successfully integrate acquisitions, including timely integration of internal controls to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our business could be harmed. In addition, our acquisitions may not be successful in achieving our desired strategic objectives, which would also cause our business to suffer. Acquisitions can also lead to large non-cash charges that can have an adverse effect on our results of operations as a result of write-offs for items such as acquired in-process research and development, impairment of goodwill or the recording of stock-based compensation. In addition, from time to time we make strategic venture investments in other companies that provide products and services that are complementary to ours. If these investments are unsuccessful, this could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Business interruptions could adversely affect our business. Our operations and those of our suppliers and customers are vulnerable to interruption by fire, hurricanes, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failure, computer viruses, computer hackers, terrorist attacks, wars, military activity, labor disruptions, health epidemics and other natural disasters and events beyond our control. For example, a significant part of our third-party manufacturing is based in Taiwan, an area that has experienced earthquakes and is considered seismically active. In addition, the business interruption insurance we carry may not cover, in some instances, or be sufficient to compensate us fully for losses or damages—including, for example, loss of market share and diminution of our brand, reputation and customer loyalty—that may occur as a result of such events. Any such losses or damages incurred by us could have an adverse effect on our business. Wars, terrorist attacks or other threats beyond our control could negatively impact consumer confidence, which could harm our operating results. Wars, terrorist attacks or other threats beyond our control could have an adverse impact on the United States and world economy in general, and consumer confidence and spending in particular, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to the Securities Markets and Ownership of Our Common and Preferred Stock Our common stock price may be subject to significant fluctuations and volatility. The market price of our common stock has been subject to significant fluctuations since the date of our initial public offering. These fluctuations could continue. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are: · quarterly variations in our operating results; · changes in revenues or earnings estimates or publication of research reports by analysts; · speculation in the press or investment community; · strategic actions by us, our customers, our suppliers or our competitors, such as new product announcements, acquisitions or restructurings; · actions by institutional stockholders or financial analysts; · general market conditions; and · domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance. 31 Table of Contents The stock markets in general, and the markets for high technology stocks in particular, have experienced high volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Elevation Partners may exercise significant influence over Palm. As of May 31, 2008, the Series B Preferred Stock owned by Elevation Partners and its affiliates is convertible into approximately 26% of our outstanding common stock on an as-converted basis and votes on an as-converted basis with our common stock on all matters other than the election of directors. Subject to certain exceptions, Elevation Partners will be permitted under the terms of a stockholders’ agreement between Palm and Elevation Partners, or the Stockholders’ Agreement, to maintain its ownership interest in Palm in subsequent offerings. As a result, Elevation Partners may have the ability to significantly influence the outcome of any matter submitted for the vote of Palm stockholders. The terms of the Series B Preferred Stock and the Stockholders’ Agreement (other than the election of directors) provide that Elevation Partners will designate a percentage of Palm’s board of directors proportional to Elevation Partners’ ownership position in Palm. Elevation Partners may have interests that diverge from, or even conflict with, those of Palm or its stockholders. Certain elements of our relationship with Elevation Partners and our executive officers may discourage other parties from trying to acquire Palm. The ownership position and governance rights of Elevation Partners could discourage a third party from proposing a change of control or other strategic transaction concerning Palm. Also, employment arrangements with our executive officers provide for termination benefits, including acceleration of the vesting of certain equity awards if they terminate their employment for good reason following a change of control or within three months prior to a change of control of Palm. Further, in connection with certain change of control transactions in which Elevation Partners maintains a beneficial ownership percentage of at least 7.5% of the surviving entity, they are entitled to retain a seat on the board of directors of the surviving entity. As a result of these factors, our common stock could trade at prices that do not reflect a “takeover premium” to the same extent as do the stocks of similarly situated companies that do not have a stockholder with an ownership interest as large as Elevation Partners’ ownership interest. We may not have the ability to finance the mandatory repurchase offer pursuant to the terms of the Series B Preferred Stock. If certain change of control transactions occur, we will be required to make an offer to repurchase up to all of the then outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock, at the option and election of the holders thereof. We will have the option to pay the repurchase price in cash or, subject to certain conditions, publicly traded shares of the acquiring entity in the change of control transaction. The cash repurchase price per share is 101% of the liquidation preference. The repurchase price per share, if paid in publicly traded shares of the acquiring entity, is 105% of the liquidation preference. Our failure to pay the repurchase price in respect of all tendered shares for any reason, including the absence of funds legally available for such payment, would require us to pay conditional dividends, which represent a cash dividend at an annual rate equal to the prime rate of JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A. plus four percent, on each share of Series B Preferred Stock. Conditional dividends will accrue and cumulate until the date on which we pay the entire repurchase price, and will be payable quarterly. For so long as conditional dividends are accruing, neither we nor any of our subsidiaries may declare or pay any dividends on our common stock, or repurchase or redeem any shares of our common stock. This may adversely affect the rights of our existing stockholders and the market price of our common stock. These repurchase requirements may also delay or make it more difficult for others to obtain control of us. 32 Table of Contents Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law and our adoption of a stockholder rights plan may delay or prevent acquisition of us, which could decrease the value of shares of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our Board of Directors. These provisions include a classified Board of Directors and limitations on actions by our stockholders by written consent. Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock (including Series B Preferred Stock outstanding on an as-converted basis). In addition, our Board of Directors has the right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer. Although we believe these provisions provide for an opportunity to receive a higher bid by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. Our Board of Directors adopted a stockholder rights plan, pursuant to which we declared and paid a dividend of one right for each share of common stock outstanding as of November 6, 2000. Unless redeemed by us prior to the time the rights are exercised, upon the occurrence of certain events, the rights will entitle the holders to receive upon exercise of the rights shares of our preferred stock, or shares of an acquiring entity, having a value equal to twice the then-current exercise price of the right. The issuance of the rights could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 