Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks. Some of these risks are described below, and you should take such risks into account in evaluating us or any investment decision involving our Company. This section does not describe all risks that may be applicable to us, our industry or our business, and it is intended only as a summary of certain material risk factors. More detailed information concerning the risk factors described below is contained in other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. RISKS RELATING TO MATTERS UNDER INVESTIGATION We are subject to ongoing governmental investigations which could require us to pay substantial fines or other penalties or otherwise have a material adverse effect on us. We and certain of our former and current executive officers, directors and other employees are currently subject to investigations by the SEC and the United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York. While we are cooperating with each of these investigations, adverse developments in connection with the investigations, including any expansion of the scope of the investigations, could negatively impact us and could divert the efforts and attention of our management team from our ordinary business operations. In connection with these investigations, it is possible that we will be required to pay criminal or civil fines, consent to injunctions on future conduct or suffer other penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” for a more detailed description of these investigations. Item 3 also describes a review by the DOL of the Krispy Kreme Doughnut Corporation Retirement Savings Plan and the Krispy Kreme Profit Sharing Stock Ownership Plan to determine whether any violations of Title I of ERISA have occurred. Pending civil litigation could have a material adverse effect on the Company. We and certain of our former and current executive officers, directors and other employees are defendants in several lawsuits, including a federal securities class action, several shareholder derivative actions and an ERISA class action. We have reached a proposed settlement with respect to the federal securities class action, a proposed partial settlement with respect to the shareholder derivative actions and a proposed settlement with respect to the ERISA class action. Under the terms of these proposed settlements, we would be required to issue shares of common stock and warrants to purchase shares of common stock having an aggregate value of approximately $35.8 million based on the current market price of the Company’s common stock. These settlements are still subject to the approval of the relevant courts and no assurance can be given that these settlements will be approved. If any of these settlements are not approved, we cannot provide assurance that the legal and other costs associated with the defense of all of these actions, the amount of time required to be spent by management and the Board of Directors on these matters and the ultimate outcome of these actions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, counsel for the derivative plaintiffs are deferring their application for fees until conclusion of the derivative actions and there can be no assurance as to the amount the Company will be required to pay to such counsel. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” for a more detailed description of these proceedings. Our potential indemnification obligations and limitations of our director and officer liability insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. As discussed elsewhere herein, several of our current and former directors, officers and employees are the subject of criminal, administrative and civil investigations and lawsuits. Under North Carolina law, our bylaws and certain indemnification agreements, we may have an obligation to indemnify our current and former officers and directors in relation to these matters. Some of these indemnification obligations would be covered by certain insurers under applicable directors’ and officers’ liability policies. In connection with the settlement of the securities class action and the partial settlement of the derivative litigation described below under Item 3, “Legal Proceedings”; however, we have agreed with these insurers to limit our claims for reimbursement to a specified reserve fund. If the sums provided for in this fund are not sufficient, if the proposed settlement is not 21 Table of Contents ultimately consummated, or if the Company incurs significant uninsured indemnity obligations, our indemnity obligations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have identified numerous material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, which could continue to impact our ability to report our results of operations and financial condition accurately and in a timely manner. We have numerous material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. As required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”), management has conducted an assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. We identified numerous material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of January 29, 2006. For a detailed description of these material weaknesses, see Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures.” Each of our material weaknesses results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement will not be prevented or detected. As a result, we must perform extensive additional work to obtain reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial statements. Even with this additional work, given the numerous material weaknesses identified, there is a risk of additional errors not being prevented or detected which could result in additional restatements. Moreover, it is reasonably possible that other material weaknesses may be identified. We have extensive work remaining to remedy the material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. We have extensive work remaining to remedy our material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting. We are in the process of developing and implementing a full work plan for remedying all of the identified material weaknesses, and this work will continue during fiscal 2007 and beyond. There can be no assurance as to when the remediation plan will be fully developed and when it will be implemented. Until our remedial efforts are completed, management will continue to devote significant time and attention to these efforts, and we will continue to incur the expenses associated with the manual procedures and resources required to prepare our consolidated financial statements. There will also continue to be an increased risk that we will be unable to timely file future periodic reports with the SEC, that a default under our debt agreements could occur as a result of further delays and that our future financial statements could contain errors that will be undetected. The implementation of certain remedial measures set forth in the Special Committee’s report may take time and be costly to implement. As a result of its investigation, the Special Committee has directed the Company to implement a number of significant remedial measures to improve our processes and procedures. These include a substantial bolstering of resources in the areas of accounting, financial reporting and internal audit, remediation of the material weaknesses and other control deficiencies discussed above, a comprehensive review of the Company’s compliance and internal audit programs, clarification and reinforcement of the role of General Counsel and enhancement of the Company’s disclosure process generally. These remedial measures may take time and be costly to implement. Continuing negative publicity may adversely affect our business. As a result of the matters investigated by the Special Committee and other matters discussed herein, we have been the subject of continuing negative publicity. This negative publicity may have an effect on the terms under which some customers, suppliers and franchisees are willing to continue to do business with us and could affect our financial performance or financial condition. We also believe that many of our employees and franchisees are operating under stressful conditions, which reduce morale and could consequently adversely affect our business. In addition, many of our franchisees have experienced reduced access to financing, in part as a result of this negative publicity. Continuing negative publicity could have a material adverse effect on our business. 22 Table of Contents We are not in compliance with our periodic reporting obligations under the Exchange Act, and until we are, our securities are not able to be registered with the SEC. We are not current in our periodic reporting obligations under the Exchange Act, and until we are, we will be precluded from registering any securities with the SEC. In addition, our failure to comply with these obligations could subject us to penalties. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS Our management team has undergone significant change. After Mr. Livengood’s departure from the Company on January 17, 2005, the positions of Chief Executive Officer, President and Chief Operating Officer were filled on an interim basis by executives of KZC. On March 6, 2006, a new President and Chief Executive Officer joined the Company. Both our Chief Accounting Officer and Executive Vice President of Operations joined Krispy Kreme in fiscal 2005. Our former General Counsel resigned effective December 1, 2005, and that position was not filled until September 11, 2006, when our new General Counsel joined Krispy Kreme on an interim basis. In fiscal 2006, we had four different individuals serve as the principal officer overseeing company store operations. Our new senior management team may require a period of time to become familiar with each other and our business. The efforts of the current senior management team and Board of Directors to manage the Company’s business have been hindered at times by a lack of institutional knowledge and their need to spend significant time and effort to resolve issues related to matters under investigation. To the extent the senior management team and the Board of Directors will be required to devote significant attention to these matters in the future, this may have, at least in the near term, an adverse effect on operations. In addition to changes at the senior management level, directed, in part, by the Special Committee, we have also experienced changes at other levels of management, including accounting. Sales at company and franchised stores have been declining and may continue to decline. In fiscal 2006, systemwide and Company average weekly sales per factory store (which includes sales through satellites) decreased approximately 15.4% and 16.7%, respectively, compared to fiscal 2005. Fiscal 2005 systemwide and Company average weekly sales per factory store decreased approximately 14.0% and 19.7%, respectively, compared to fiscal 2004. We are in the process of reevaluating our business and have taken steps to improve our sales. There can be no assurance, however, that these steps will produce the desired results. Each company store has significant fixed and semi-fixed costs, which prevents us from reducing our operating expenses in proportion with declining sales. Thus, our earnings will be negatively impacted if average weekly sales continue to decline. A number of factors have historically affected, and will continue to affect, our average weekly sales results, including, among other factors: • Consumer trends; • Our ability to execute our business strategy effectively; • Competition; • General regional and national economic conditions; • Adverse weather conditions; and • Strong initial sales performance by new stores. Changes in our average weekly sales results could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. 23 Table of Contents We rely in part on our franchisees. Disputes with our franchisees, or failures by our franchisees to operate successfully, to develop or finance new stores or build them on suitable sites or open them on schedule, could adversely affect our growth and our operating results. Area developers and associates, which are all independent contractors and not Krispy Kreme employees, generated approximately 27% of our total revenues in fiscal 2006. We rely in part on these area developers and associates and the manner in which they operate their locations to develop and promote our business. We occasionally have disputes with franchisees and have recently settled litigation with two area developers. Future disputes could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We provide training and support to area developers and associates, but the quality of franchised store operations may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control. The failure of our area developers and associates to operate franchises successfully could have a material adverse effect on us, our reputation and our brands and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result of the underperformance by many of our area developers and disputes between us and some of our area developers, we have undertaken an analysis of each area developer in order to determine what, if any, restructuring initiatives should be taken. No assurance can be given as to the success of our restructuring activities. Reduced access to financing by our franchisees on reasonable terms could adversely affect our future operations by leading to additional store closures by our franchisees, which may in turn reduce our franchise revenues and KKM&D revenues. Most area development agreements specify a schedule for opening stores in the territory covered by the agreement. These schedules form the basis for our expectations regarding the number and timing of new Krispy Kreme store openings. In the past, Krispy Kreme has agreed to extend or modify development schedules for certain area developers and may do so in the future. Our growth strategy depends on opening new Krispy Kreme stores internationally. Our ability to expand our store base is influenced by factors beyond our and our franchisees’ control, which may slow store development and impair our strategy. As we work to stabilize our operations and to refine our store format for new domestic stores, we do not expect that we or our franchisees will open a significant number of domestic factory stores in the near future. Our growth strategy, therefore, depends on the opening of new Krispy Kreme stores internationally. Our ability to expand our store base internationally is influenced by factors beyond our and our franchisees’ control, which may slow store development and impair our strategy. The success of these new stores will be dependent in part on a number of factors, which neither we nor our franchisees can control. Currency, economic, political and other risks associated with our international operations could adversely affect our operating results. As of January 29, 2006, there were 68 Krispy Kreme stores operated outside of the United States. Such operations are transacted in the respective local currency. Amounts payable to us by our international franchisees are based on a conversion of the royalties and other fees to U.S. dollars using the prevailing exchange rate. In particular, the royalties are based on a percentage of net sales generated by our foreign franchisees’ operations. Our revenues from international franchisees are exposed to the potentially adverse effects of our franchisees’ operations, currency exchange rates, local economic conditions, political instability and other risks associated with doing business in foreign countries. To the extent that the portion of our revenues generated from international operations increases in the future, our exposure to changes in foreign economic conditions and currency fluctuations will increase. In connection with our international operations, we typically export our products, principally our doughnut mixes, to our franchisees in markets outside the United States. Numerous government regulations apply to both the export of food products from the United States as well as the import of food products into other countries. If one or more of the ingredients in our products are banned, alternative ingredients would need to be found. Although we intend to be proactive in addressing any product ingredient issues, such requirements may delay our ability to open stores in other countries in accordance with our desired schedule. 24 Table of Contents We are the exclusive supplier of doughnut mixes, other key ingredients and flavors to all domestic Krispy Kreme company stores. If we have any problems supplying these ingredients, our stores’ ability to make doughnuts will be negatively affected. In addition, changes in vendor credit terms or the failure to manage risks associated with ingredient purchases could adversely affect our profitability and liquidity. We are the exclusive supplier of doughnut mixes and other key ingredients and flavors to all domestic company stores and most domestic franchised stores. We supply the doughnut mixes and other key ingredients and flavors principally out of our two mix manufacturing facilities, which are located in Winston-Salem, North Carolina and Effingham, Illinois. Although we have a backup source to manufacture our doughnut mixes in the event of the loss of our Winston-Salem and Effingham plants, these backup facilities do not regularly produce our doughnut mixes. Any interruption of existing or planned production capacity at our manufacturing plants could impede our ability or that of our franchisees to make doughnuts. In addition, in the event that any of our supplier relationships terminate unexpectedly, even where we have multiple suppliers for the same ingredient, we may not be able to obtain adequate quantities of the same high-quality ingredient at competitive prices. Certain of our major suppliers tightened credit terms since early 2005. Further changes to credit terms offered to us by our suppliers could adversely affect our liquidity. Although we utilize forward purchase contracts and futures contracts to mitigate the risks related to commodity price fluctuations, such contracts do not fully mitigate commodity price risk. Adverse changes in commodity prices could adversely affect our profitability and liquidity. We are the only manufacturer of our doughnut-making equipment. If we have any problems producing this equipment, our stores’ ability to make doughnuts will be negatively affected. We manufacture our custom doughnut-making equipment in one facility in Winston-Salem, North Carolina. Although we have limited backup sources for the production of our equipment, obtaining new equipment quickly in the event of the loss of our Winston-Salem plant would be difficult and would jeopardize our ability to supply equipment to new stores or new parts for the maintenance of existing equipment in established stores on a timely basis. We have only one supplier of glaze flavoring, and any interruption in supply could impair our ability to make our signature Hot Original Glazedtm. We are dependent on a sole supplier for our glaze flavoring. Any interruption in the distribution from our current supplier could affect our ability to produce our signature Hot Original Glazedtm. We are subject to franchise laws and regulations that govern our status as a franchisor and regulate some aspects of our franchise relationships. Our ability to develop new franchised stores and to enforce contractual rights against franchisees may be adversely affected by these laws and regulations, which could cause our franchise revenues to decline. We, as a franchisor, are subject to both regulation by the FTC and state laws regulating the offer and sale of franchises. Our failure to obtain or maintain approvals to sell franchises would cause us to lose franchise revenues and KKM&D revenues. In addition, state laws that regulate substantive aspects of our relationships with franchisees may limit our ability to terminate or otherwise resolve conflicts with our franchisees. Because we plan to grow primarily through franchising, any impairment of our ability to develop new franchised stores will negatively affect us and our growth strategy more than if we planned to develop additional company stores. Since late 2004, our lack of current audited financial statements and other events have prevented us from offering franchises pursuant to an up-to-date registered UFOC. Our lack of an updated registered UFOC will impede our ability to establish new franchises inside the United States and may impede our ability to establish franchises in certain countries outside the United States. 25 Table of Contents Off-premises sales represent a significant portion of our sales. The infrastructure necessary to support off-premises sales results in significant fixed and semi-fixed costs. Also, the loss of one of our large wholesale customers could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The Company operates a fleet network to support off-premises sales. Declines in off-premises sales without a commensurate reduction in operating expenses, as well as rising fuel costs, may adversely affect our business. We have several large wholesale customers. Our top two such customers accounted for approximately 10.3% of total company store sales during fiscal 2006, excluding consolidated franchisee sales. The loss of one of our large national wholesale customers could adversely affect our results of operations across all business segments. These customers do not enter into long-term contracts; instead, they make purchase decisions based on a combination of price, product quality, consumer demand and customer service performance. They may in the future use more of their shelf space, including space currently used for our products, for other products, including private label products. If our sales to one or more of these customers are reduced, this reduction may adversely affect our business. Our failure or inability to enforce our trademarks could adversely affect the value of our brands. We own certain common law trademark rights in the United States, as well as numerous trademark and service mark registrations in the United States and in other jurisdictions. We believe that our trademarks and other intellectual property rights are important to our success and our competitive position. We therefore devote appropriate resources to the protection of our trademarks and proprietary rights and aggressively pursue persons who unlawfully and without our consent use or register our trademarks. The protective actions that we take, however, may not be sufficient, in some jurisdictions, to secure our trademark rights for some of the goods and services that we offer and/or to prevent imitation by others, which could adversely affect the value of our trademarks and service marks. With regard to the United States, although we are not aware of anyone else who is using “Krispy Kreme” or “Hot Doughnuts Now” as a trademark or service mark, we are aware that some businesses are using “Krispy” or a phonetic equivalent, such as “Crispie Creme,” as part of a trademark or service mark in connection with retail doughnut stores. In jurisdictions outside the United States, specifically Costa Rica, Guatemala, Indonesia, Nigeria, Peru, the Philippines, Thailand and Venezuela, we are aware that some businesses have registered, used and/or may be using the “Krispy Kreme” trademark (or its phonetic equivalent) in connection with doughnut-related goods and services. There may be similar such uses or registrations of which we are unaware and which could perhaps arise from prior users. These uses and/or registrations could limit our operations and possibly cause us to incur litigation costs, or pay damages or licensing fees to a prior user or registrant of similar intellectual property. We have substantial indebtedness under our senior secured credit facilities that could adversely impact cash availability for growth and operations and may increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions. Our indebtedness for borrowed money as of July 30, 2006 was approximately $120.6 million, including $118.8 million under our senior secured credit facilities. Our debt service obligations with respect to this increased indebtedness could have an adverse impact on our earnings and cash flow for as long as the indebtedness is outstanding. Our substantial level of indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following: • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be impaired; • our use of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments under our senior secured credit facilities, which will reduce the funds available to us for other purposes such as potential acquisitions and capital expenditures; 26 Table of Contents • our level of indebtedness may put us at a competitive disadvantage and reduce our flexibility in planning for, or responding to, changing conditions in our business; and • our increased vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse developments in our industry. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets to meet our debt service payments. Our senior secured credit facilities impose restrictions and obligations upon us that significantly limit our ability to operate our business, and in the past we have sought and received waivers relating to these restrictions and obligations. Our senior secured credit facilities impose financial and other restrictive covenants that limit our ability to plan for and respond to changes in our business. Under our senior secured credit facilities, we are required to meet certain financial tests, including a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio. The financial covenants are based upon the Company’s fiscal 2007 operating plan and preliminary plans for fiscal 2008, which include, among other things, anticipated sales of certain assets and reductions in the amount of indebtedness and other obligations of franchisees guaranteed by the Company. In addition, we must comply with covenants which, among other things, limit the incurrence of additional indebtedness, liens, investments, dividends, transactions with affiliates, asset sales, acquisitions, capital expenditures, mergers and consolidations, prepayments of other indebtedness and other matters customarily restricted in such agreements. Any failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default under our senior secured credit facilities. We have sought and received waivers of defaults and amendments to covenants from the lenders under our senior secured credit facilities. While we were able to obtain these waivers and amendments, in some cases at a significant additional cost, there is no assurance that we will not have further defaults or that any future defaults will be waived. Such defaults could result in acceleration of all or substantially all of our indebtedness and the loss of earning assets securing our indebtedness. We currently have substantial ongoing liquidity needs arising from expenditures to professional advisors, and we will require a significant amount of cash to meet these liquidity needs. If these expenditures continue and we cannot generate the required cash, we may not be able to continue to obtain necessary services from our professional advisors and our ability to fund our operations may be significantly impaired. We currently rely on numerous professional advisors to provide us with services. Fees to these professional advisors incurred since May 2004 have been very significant and, depending on the governmental investigations and the progress of ongoing litigation, may remain significant in the future. Our ability to make payments to our professional advisors will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to enable us to retain all of our professional advisors and to fund our operations. If we are not able to retain all of our professional advisors, we may not be able to obtain the services that we currently rely on to operate our business and represent us in the governmental investigations and litigation to which we are subject. RISKS RELATING TO THE FOOD SERVICE INDUSTRY The food service industry is affected by consumer preferences and perceptions. Changes in these preferences and perceptions may lessen the demand for our doughnuts, which would reduce sales and harm our business. Food service businesses are often affected by changes in consumer tastes, national, regional and local economic conditions and demographic trends. Individual store performance may be adversely affected by traffic patterns, the cost and availability of labor, purchasing power, availability of products and the type, 27 Table of Contents number and location of competing stores. Our sales have been and may continue to be affected by changing consumer tastes, such as health or dietary preferences, including the reduction of consumption of food products containing high levels of carbohydrates or trans fats, that cause consumers to avoid doughnuts in favor of foods that are perceived as more healthy. Moreover, because we are primarily dependent on a single product, if consumer demand for doughnuts should decrease, our business would suffer more than if we had a more diversified menu. The food service industry is affected by litigation, regulation and publicity concerning food quality, health and other issues, which can cause customers to avoid our products and result in liabilities. Food service businesses can be adversely affected by litigation, by regulation and by complaints from customers or government authorities resulting from food quality, illness, injury or other health concerns or operating issues stemming from one store or a limited number of stores, including stores operated by our franchisees. In addition, class action lawsuits have been filed and may continue to be filed against various food service businesses (including quick service restaurants) alleging, among other things, that food service businesses have failed to disclose the health risks associated with high-fat foods and that certain food service business marketing practices have encouraged obesity. Adverse publicity about these allegations may negatively affect us and our franchisees, regardless of whether the allegations are true, by discouraging customers from buying our products. In addition, the New York City Health Department recently proposed an amendment to the New York City Health Code that would partially phase out artificial trans fat (which we currently use in our doughnuts) in all New York City restaurants and other food service establishments. Additional cities or states may propose or adopt similar regulations. Although we could produce our doughnuts without using any trans fat, the taste of our doughnuts may be affected. Because one of our competitive strengths is the taste and quality of our doughnuts, adverse publicity or such regulations relating to food quality or other similar concerns affects us more than it would food service businesses that compete primarily on other factors. We could also incur significant liabilities if such a lawsuit or claim results in a decision against us or as a result of litigation costs regardless of the result. Our success depends on our ability to compete with many food service businesses. We compete with many well-established food service companies. At the retail level, we compete with other doughnut retailers and bakeries, specialty coffee retailers, bagel shops, fast-food restaurants, delicatessens, take-out food service companies, supermarkets and convenience stores. At the wholesale level, we compete primarily with grocery store bakeries, packaged snack foods and vending machine dispensers of snack foods. Aggressive pricing by our competitors or the entrance of new competitors into our markets could reduce our sales and profit margins. Moreover, many of our competitors offer consumers a wider range of products. Many of our competitors or potential competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do which may allow them to react to changes in pricing, marketing and the quick service restaurant industry better than we can. As competitors expand their operations, we expect competition to intensify. In addition, the start-up costs associated with retail doughnut and similar food service establishments are not a significant impediment to entry into the retail doughnut business. We also compete with other employers in our markets for hourly workers and may be subject to higher labor costs. RISKS RELATING TO OWNERSHIP OF OUR COMMON STOCK The market price of our common stock has been volatile and may continue to be volatile, and the value of any investment may decline. The market price of our common stock has been volatile and may continue to be volatile. This volatility may cause wide fluctuations in the price of our common stock, which is listed on the NYSE. The market price may fluctuate in response to many factors including: • The results of the ongoing governmental investigations and civil litigation described under Item 3, “Legal Proceedings;” • Changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets; 28 Table of Contents • Variations in our quarterly operating results or our operating results failing to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors in a particular period; • Changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • Other developments affecting Krispy Kreme, our industry, customers or competitors; and • The operating and stock price performance of companies that investors deem comparable to Krispy Kreme. Our charter, bylaws and shareholder rights agreement contain anti-takeover provisions that may make it more difficult or expensive to acquire us in the future or may negatively affect our stock price. Our articles of incorporation, bylaws and shareholder rights agreement contain several provisions that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions may make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting common stock. They may also delay, prevent or deter a merger, acquisition, tender offer, proxy contest or other transaction that might otherwise result in our shareholders’ receiving a premium over the market price for their common stock. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 