Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Company We cannot give any assurance that the Merger will be consummated. Consummation of the Merger is subject to the satisfaction of various closing conditions. While certain of these conditions have been satisfied, including, among others, adoption of the Merger Agreement by a vote of two-thirds of the outstanding shares of our common stock, the expiration or termination of applicable waiting periods under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, and issuance of a ruling under the Competition Act (Canada) or expiration, termination or waiver under that Act, there are still several conditions to closing that have not been satisfied, including obtaining required approvals from the FDIC, the OCC and the Utah Commissioner of Financial Institutions with respect to our banking operations and certain other customary closing conditions described in the Merger Agreement. We cannot guarantee that all of the conditions precedent to consummating the Merger will be satisfied or that the Merger will be successfully completed. On January 25, 2008, Aladdin Solutions, Inc. (f/k/a Aladdin Holdco, Inc.) informed us in a written notice that it did not anticipate the condition to closing the Merger relating to obtaining approvals from the OCC would be satisfied. In response to the notice and subsequent conversations with Aladdin Solutions, Inc.’s representatives, on January 30, 2008, we filed a lawsuit against Aladdin Solutions, Inc. and Aladdin Merger Sub, Inc., the acquisition entities formed by affiliates of The Blackstone Group to acquire us pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, seeking specific performance to compel these entities to comply with their obligations under the Merger Agreement, including their covenants to use reasonable best efforts to obtain required regulatory approvals and to consummate the Merger. On February 8, 2008, we filed a motion to dismiss our lawsuit without prejudice in response to confirmation of these entities’ commitment to work to consummate the Merger. Although we are working with these entities to effect an acceptable solution to the unresolved regulatory issues, there can be no assurance that an acceptable solution will be obtained or that the Merger will be completed. In the event that the Merger is not completed: • management’s attention from our day-to-day business may be diverted; • we may lose key employees; • our relationships with customers and vendors may be disrupted as a result of uncertainties with regard to our business and prospects; • we may be required to pursue legal action to enforce our rights under the Merger Agreement; • we may be exposed to litigation claims from third parties relating to the failure to complete the Merger; • we may be required to pay significant transaction costs related to the Merger; and • the market price of shares of our common stock may decline to the extent that the current market price of those shares reflects a market assumption that the Merger will be completed. Any such events could have a material negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition and could adversely affect our stock price. Delaware law and our charter documents could prevent a change of control that might be beneficial to you. Delaware law, as well as provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, could discourage unsolicited proposals to acquire us, even though such proposals may be beneficial to you. These include: • a board of directors classified into three classes of directors with the directors of each class having staggered, three-year terms; • our board’s authority to issue shares of preferred stock without further stockholder approval; and 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • provisions of Delaware law that restrict many business combinations and provide that directors serving on staggered boards of directors, such as ours, may be removed only for cause. These provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law could discourage tender offers or other transactions that might otherwise result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the market price for our common stock. Future sales of our common stock, or the perception that future sales could occur, may adversely affect our common stock price. As of February 22, 2008, we had an aggregate of 100,909,467 shares of our common stock authorized but unissued and not reserved for specific purposes. While we are currently restricted by the terms of the Merger Agreement, in general, we may issue all of these shares without any action or approval by our stockholders. We have reserved 21,003,000 shares of our common stock for issuance under our employee stock purchase plan and our long-term incentive plans, of which 5,212,133 shares are issuable upon vesting of restricted stock awards, restricted stock units, and upon exercise of options granted as of February 22, 2008, including options to purchase approximately 4,030,114 shares exercisable as of February 22, 2008 or that will become exercisable within 60 days after February 22, 2008. We have reserved for issuance 1,500,000 shares of our common stock, all of which remain issuable, under our 401(k) and Retirement Savings Plan. In addition, we may pursue acquisitions of competitors and related businesses and may issue shares of our common stock in connection with these acquisitions. Sales or issuances of a substantial number of shares of common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock, and any sale or issuance of our common stock will dilute the percentage ownership held by our stockholders. A limited number of stockholders report ownership of a significant amount of our common stock. These stockholders may have interests that conflict with yours and, if they were to act together, may be able to control the election of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions, including a change in control. Pursuant to the information provided in various filings with the SEC on Schedules 13D or 13G and amendments thereto, there are five separate groups of affiliated entities that beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 35% of our outstanding common stock. These stockholders, if acting together, may be able to exercise significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, changes to our charter documents and significant corporate actions, including a change in control. These stockholders may have interests that conflict with our interests or those of other stockholders. This concentration of ownership may prevent any other holder or group of holders of our common stock from being able to affect the way we are managed or the direction of our business. Accordingly, this concentration of ownership could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock. Risks Related to General Business Operations Our 10 largest clients represented 40.7% of our consolidated revenue in 2007, and the loss of any of these clients could cause a significant drop in our revenue. We depend on a limited number of large clients for a significant portion of our consolidated revenue. Our 10 largest clients represented approximately 40.7% of our consolidated revenue during the year ended December 31, 2007, with BMO Bank of Montreal representing approximately 10.2% of our 2007 consolidated revenue. A decrease in revenue from any of our significant clients for any reason, including a decrease in pricing or activity, or a decision to either utilize another service provider or to no longer outsource some or all of the services we provide, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated revenue. 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Marketing Services. Our 10 largest clients in this segment represented approximately 48.9% of our Marketing Services revenue in 2007. BMO Bank of Montreal represented approximately 21.5% of this segment’s 2007 revenue. Our contract with BMO Bank of Montreal expires in 2009. Credit Services. Our 10 largest clients and their customers in this segment represented approximately 84.5% of our Credit Services revenue in 2007. Intimate Brands and its retail affiliates represented approximately 20.9%, and Redcats represented approximately 12.4% of our Credit Services revenue in 2007. Our contracts with Intimate Brands and its retail affiliates expire in 2012, and our contract with Redcats expires in 2016. Transaction Services. Our 10 largest clients in this segment represented approximately 45.8% of our Transaction Services revenue in 2007. Competition in our industries is intense and we expect it to intensify. The markets for our products and services are highly competitive and we expect competition to intensify in each of those markets. Many of our current competitors have longer operating histories, stronger brand names and greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. Certain of our business units also compete against in-house staffs of our current clients and others or internally developed products and services by our current clients and others. For example, as a result of increasing competitors in the loyalty market, including from the Aeroplan Program, one of Canada’s largest loyalty marketing programs, we may experience greater competition in attracting and retaining sponsors in our AIR MILES Reward Program. Our ability to generate significant revenue from clients and partners will depend on our ability to differentiate ourselves through the products and services we provide and the attractiveness of our programs to consumers. We may not be able to compete successfully against our current and potential competitors. The markets for the services that we offer may fail to expand or may contract and this could negatively impact our growth and profitability. Our growth and continued profitability depend on acceptance of the services that we offer. Our clients may not continue to use loyalty and targeted marketing strategies. Changes in technology may enable merchants and retail companies to directly process transactions in a cost-efficient manner without the use of our services. Additionally, downturns in the economy or the performance of retailers may result in a decrease in the demand for our marketing strategies. Further, if customers make fewer purchases of our customers’ products and services, we will have fewer transactions to process, resulting in lower revenue. Any decrease in the demand for our services for the reasons discussed above or any other reasons could have a materially adverse effect on our growth, revenue and operating results. If we fail to identify suitable acquisition candidates, or to integrate the businesses we acquire, it could negatively affect our business. Historically, we have engaged in a significant number of acquisitions, and those acquisitions have contributed to our growth in revenue and profitability. While we believe that acquisitions will continue to be a key component of our growth strategy, our focus for 2008 is expected to be on organic growth. However, we may not be able to continue to locate and secure acquisition candidates on terms and conditions that are acceptable to us. If we are unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates, our growth could be impaired. There are several risks to acquisitions, including: • the difficulty and expense that we incur in connection with the acquisition; • adverse accounting consequences of conforming the acquired company’s accounting policies to ours; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • the potential loss of customers or key employees of the acquired company; 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • the impact on our financial condition due to the timing of the acquisition or the failure to meet operating expectations of the acquired business; and • the assumption of unknown liabilities of the acquired company. Acquisitions that we make may not be successfully integrated into our ongoing operations and we may not achieve any expected cost savings or other synergies from any acquisition. If the operations of an acquired business do not meet expectations, our profitability and cash flows may be impaired and we may be required to restructure the acquired business or write-off the value of some or all of the assets of the acquired business. Failure to safeguard our databases and consumer privacy could affect our reputation among our clients and their customers, and may expose us to legal claims. As part of our AIR MILES Reward Program, targeted marketing services programs and credit card programs, we maintain databases containing information on consumers’ account transactions. Our databases may be subject to unauthorized access. If we experience a security breach, the integrity of our databases could be affected. Security and privacy concerns may cause consumers to resist providing the personal data necessary to support our profiling capability. The use of our loyalty, marketing services or credit card programs could decline if any compromise of security occurred. In addition, any unauthorized release of consumer information, or any public perception that we released consumer information without authorization, could subject us to legal claims from consumers or regulatory enforcement actions and adversely affect our client relationships. As a result of our significant Canadian operations, our reported financial information will be affected by fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. and Canadian dollars. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from our operations in Canada, which transact business in Canadian dollars. Therefore, our reported financial information from quarter-to-quarter will be affected by changes in the exchange rate between the U.S. and Canadian dollars over the relevant periods. We do not hedge any of our exchange rate exposure in our Canadian operations. The Canadian dollar has been trading at historically high rates against the U.S. dollar in recent periods. If the Canadian dollar were to decline in value in subsequent periods, our operating results would be negatively impacted and we would not have the benefit of the favorable revenue impact we have experienced in recent periods as a result of the strength of the Canadian dollar. The hedging activity related to our securitization trusts and our floating rate indebtedness subjects us to off-balance sheet counterparty risks relating to the creditworthiness of the commercial banks with whom we enter into hedging transactions. In order to execute hedging strategies related to the securitization trusts and our floating rate indebtedness, we have entered into interest rate derivative contracts with commercial banks. These banks are considered counterparties. It is our policy to enter into such contracts with counterparties that are deemed to be creditworthy. However, if macro- or micro-economic events were to negatively impact these banks, the banks might not be able to honor their obligations either to us or to the securitization trusts and we might suffer a direct loss or a loss related to our residual interest in the securitization trusts. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights may harm our competitive position, and litigation to protect our intellectual property rights or defend against third party allegations of infringement may be costly. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our trademarks or other intellectual property rights, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. The actions we take to protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights may not be adequate. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of the 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements proprietary rights of others. We may not be able to prevent infringement of our intellectual property rights or misappropriation of our proprietary information. Any infringement or misappropriation could harm any competitive advantage we currently derive or may derive from our proprietary rights. Third parties may also assert infringement claims against us. Any claims and any resulting litigation could subject us to significant liability for damages may also result in limitations on our ability to use the intellectual property subject to these claims. An adverse determination in any litigation of this type could require us to design around a third party’s patent or to license alternative technology from another party. In addition, litigation is time consuming and expensive to defend and could result in the diversion of our time and resources. Loss of data center capacity, interruption of telecommunication links, computer viruses or inability to utilize proprietary software of third party vendors could affect our ability to timely meet the needs of our clients and their customers. Our ability to protect our data centers against damage or inoperability from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, computer viruses and other disasters is critical. In order to provide many of our services, we must be able to store, retrieve, process and manage large amounts of data and periodically expand and upgrade our database capabilities. Any damage to our data centers, any failure of our telecommunication links that interrupts our operations or any impairment of our ability to use our software or the proprietary software of third party vendors, including impairments due to virus attacks, could adversely affect our ability to meet our clients’ needs and their confidence in utilizing us for future services. If we are required to pay state taxes on transaction processing, it could negatively impact our profitability. Transaction processing companies may be subject to state taxation of certain portions of their fees charged to merchants for their services. If we are required to pay such taxes and are unable to pass this tax expense through to our merchant clients, these taxes would negatively impact our profitability. We rely on third party vendors to provide products and services. Our profitability could be adversely impacted if they fail to fulfill their obligations. The failure of the company’s suppliers to deliver products and services in sufficient quantities and in a timely manner could adversely affect the company’s business. If our significant vendors were unable to renew our existing contracts we might not be able to replace the related product or service at the same cost which would negatively impact our profitability. Risks Particular to Marketing Services If actual redemptions by AIR MILES Reward Program collectors are greater than expected, or if the costs related to redemption of AIR MILES reward miles increase, our profitability could be adversely affected. A portion of our revenue is based on our estimate of the number of AIR MILES reward miles that will go unused by the collector base. The percentage of unredeemed AIR MILES reward miles is known as “breakage” in the loyalty industry. AIR MILES reward miles currently do not expire. We experience breakage when AIR MILES reward miles are not redeemed by collectors for a number of reasons, including: • loss of interest in the program or sponsors; • collectors moving out of the program area; and • death of a collector. If actual redemptions are greater than our estimates, our profitability could be adversely affected due to the cost of the excess redemptions. Our AIR MILES Reward Program also exposes us to risks arising from 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements potentially increasing reward costs. Our profitability could be adversely affected if costs related to redemption of AIR MILES reward miles increase. The loss of our most active AIR MILES Reward Program collectors could negatively affect our growth and profitability. Our most active AIR MILES Reward Program collectors drive a disproportionate percentage of our AIR MILES Reward Program revenue. The loss of a significant portion of these collectors, for any reason, could impact our ability to generate significant revenue from sponsors. The continued attractiveness of our loyalty and rewards programs will depend in large part on our ability to remain affiliated with sponsors that are desirable to consumers and to offer rewards that are both attainable and attractive. Airline or travel industry disruptions, such as an airline insolvency, could negatively affect the AIR MILES Reward Program, our revenues and profitability. Air travel is one of the appeals of the AIR MILES Reward Program to collectors. As a result of airline insolvencies and restructurings, we may experience service disruptions that prevent us from fulfilling collectors’ flight redemption requests. If one of our existing airline suppliers sharply reduces its fleet capacity and route network, we may not be able to satisfy our collectors’ demands for airline tickets. Tickets from other airlines, if available, could be more expensive than a comparable ticket under our current supply agreements with existing suppliers, and the routes offered by the other airlines may be inadequate, inconvenient or undesirable to the redeeming collectors. As a result, we may experience higher air travel redemption costs and collector satisfaction with the AIR MILES Reward Program might be adversely affected. As a result of airline or travel industry disruptions, political instability, terrorist acts or war, some collectors could determine that air travel is too dangerous or burdensome. Consequently, collectors might forego redeeming AIR MILES reward miles for air travel and therefore might not participate in the AIR MILES Reward Program to the extent they previously did, which could adversely affect our revenue. Legislation relating to consumer privacy may affect our ability to collect data that we use in providing our marketing services, which, among other things, could negatively affect our ability to satisfy our clients’ needs. The enactment of new or amended legislation or industry regulations arising from public concern over consumer privacy issues could have a material adverse impact on our marketing services. Legislation or industry regulations regarding consumer privacy issues could place restrictions upon the collection, sharing and use of information that is currently legally available, which could materially increase our cost of collecting some data. These types of legislation or industry regulations could also prohibit us from collecting or disseminating certain types of data, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our clients’ requirements and our profitability and cash flow. In addition to the United States and Canadian regulations discussed below, we have recently expanded our marketing services through the acquisition of companies formed and operating in foreign jurisdictions that may be subject to additional or more stringent legislation and regulations regarding consumer privacy. In the United States, federal and state laws such as the federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the Fair Credit Reporting Act, as amended by the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003, make it more difficult to collect, share and use information that has previously been legally available and may increase our costs of collecting some data. Regulations under these acts give cardholders the ability to “opt out” of having information generated by their credit card purchases shared with other affiliated and unaffiliated parties or the public. Our ability to gather, share and utilize this data will be adversely affected if a significant percentage of the consumers whose purchasing behavior we track elect to “opt out,” thereby precluding us and our affiliates from using their data. In the United States, the federal Do-Not-Call Implementation Act makes it more difficult to telephonically communicate with prospective and existing customers. Regulations under this act give consumers the ability to 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements “opt out,” through a national do-not-call registry and state do-not-call registries of having telephone solicitations placed to them by companies that do not have an existing business relationship with the consumer. In addition, regulations require companies to maintain an internal do-not-call list for those who do not want the companies to solicit them through telemarketing. This act could limit our ability to provide services and information to our clients. Failure to comply with the terms of this act could have a negative impact on our reputation and subject us to significant penalties. In the United States, the federal Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003 restricts our ability to send commercial electronic mail messages, the primary purpose of which is advertising or promoting a commercial product or service, to our customers and prospective customers. The act requires that a commercial electronic mail message provide the customers with an opportunity to opt-out from receiving future commercial electronic mail messages from the sender. Failure to comply with the terms of this act could have a negative impact on our reputation and subject us to significant penalties. In Canada, the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act requires an organization to obtain a consumer’s consent to collect, use or disclose personal information. Under this act, consumer personal information may be used only for the purposes for which it was collected. We allow our customers to voluntarily “opt out” from receiving either one or both promotional and marketing mail or promotional and marketing electronic mail. Heightened consumer awareness of, and concern about, privacy may result in customers “opting out” at higher rates than they have historically. This would mean that a reduced number of customers would receive bonus and promotional offers and therefore those customers may collect fewer AIR MILES reward miles. Risks Particular to Credit Services If we are unable to securitize our credit card receivables due to changes in the market, the unavailability of credit enhancements, an early amortization event or for other reasons, we would not be able to fund new credit card receivables, which would have a negative impact on our operations and earnings. Since January 1996, we have sold a majority of the credit card receivables originated by World Financial Network National Bank to WFN Credit Company, LLC and WFN Funding Company II, LLC, which in turn sold them to World Financial Network Credit Card Master Trust, World Financial Network Credit Card Master Note Trust and World Financial Network Credit Card Master Trust III (the “WFN Trusts”) as part of our securitization program. This securitization program is the primary vehicle through which we finance World Financial Network National Bank’s credit card receivables. If World Financial Network National Bank were not able to regularly securitize the receivables it originates, our ability to grow or even maintain our Retail business would be materially impaired. World Financial Network National Bank’s ability to effect securitization transactions is affected by the following factors, some of which are beyond our control: • conditions in the securities markets in general and the asset-backed securitization market in particular; • conformity of the quality of credit card receivables to rating agency requirements and changes in that quality or those requirements; and • our ability to fund required over-collateralizations or credit enhancements, which we routinely utilize in order to achieve better credit ratings, which lowers our borrowing costs. In the second half of 2007, conditions in the securities market in general and the asset-backed securitization market in particular deteriorated significantly. If these conditions persist, deteriorate further or recur in the future, World Financial Network National Bank may not be able to securitize the receivables it originates on terms similar to those it has received historically, or at all. In particular, we have approximately $600.0 million of asset-backed notes that will become due in the second quarter of 2008. Our ability to refinance these notes on favorable terms or at all will depend upon our ability to continue to securitize our receivables, which will depend upon the conditions in the securities market at the time, as well as the other factors described above. 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Once World Financial Network National Bank securitizes receivables, the agreement governing the transaction contains covenants that address the receivables’ performance and the continued solvency of the retailer where the underlying sales were generated. In the event such a covenant or other similar covenant is breached, an early amortization event could be declared, whereby the trustee for the securitization trust would retain World Financial Network National Bank’s interest in the related receivables, along with the excess interest income that would normally be paid to World Financial Network National Bank, until the securitization investors are fully repaid. The occurrence of an early amortization event would significantly limit, or even negate, our ability to securitize additional receivables. Increases in net charge-offs beyond our current estimates could have a negative impact on our operating income and profitability. The primary risk associated with unsecured consumer lending is the risk of default or bankruptcy of the borrower, resulting in the borrower’s balance being charged-off as uncollectible. We rely principally on the customer’s creditworthiness for repayment of the loan and therefore have no other recourse for collection. We may not be able to successfully identify and evaluate the creditworthiness of cardholders to minimize delinquencies and losses. An increase in defaults or net charge-offs beyond historical levels will reduce the net spread available to us from the securitization master trust and could result in a reduction in finance charge income or a write-down of the interest-only strip, our retained interest in the securitization program represented in our consolidated balance sheets as due from securitization. General economic factors, such as the rate of inflation, unemployment levels and interest rates, may result in greater delinquencies that lead to greater credit losses. In addition to being affected by general economic conditions and the success of our collection and recovery efforts, our delinquency and net credit card receivable charge-off rates are affected by the credit risk of our credit card receivables and the average age of our various credit card account portfolios. The average age of our credit card receivables affects the stability of delinquency and loss rates of the portfolio. An older credit card portfolio generally drives a more stable performance in the portfolio. As of December 31, 2007, 60.5% of the total number of our securitized accounts with outstanding balances and 62.7% of the amount of our outstanding securitized receivables were for accounts with origination dates greater than 24 months old. For the year ended December 31, 2007, our managed receivables net charge-off ratio was 5.8% compared to 5.0% and 6.5% for the same period in 2006 and 2005, respectively. Our pricing strategy may not offset the negative impact on profitability caused by increases in delinquencies and losses. Any material increases in delinquencies and losses beyond our current estimates could have a materially adverse impact on us and the value of our net retained interests in loans that we sell through securitizations. Changes in the amount of payments and defaults by cardholders on credit card balances may cause a decrease in the estimated value of interest-only strips. The estimated fair value of our retained interest in our securitized credit card receivables, which we refer to as our interest-only strips, depends upon the anticipated cash flows of the related credit card receivables. A significant factor affecting the anticipated cash flows is the rate at which the underlying principal of the securitized credit card receivables is reduced. Other assumptions used in estimating the value of the interest-only strips include estimated future credit losses and a discount rate commensurate with the risks involved. The rate of cardholder payments or defaults on credit card balances may be affected by a variety of economic factors, including interest rates and the availability of alternative financing, most of which are not within our control. A decrease in interest rates could cause cardholder payments to increase, thereby requiring a write down of the interest-only strips. If payments from cardholders or defaults by cardholders exceed our estimates, we may be required to decrease the estimated value of the interest-only strips through a charge against earnings. Interest rate increases could significantly reduce the amount we realize from the spread between the yield on our assets and our cost of funding. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk affects us directly in our lending and borrowing activities. Our total interest incurred was approximately $248.1 million for 2007, which includes both on-and off-balance sheet 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements transactions. Of this total, $80.2 million of the interest expense for 2007 was attributable to on-balance sheet indebtedness and the remainder was attributable to our securitized credit card receivables, which are financed off-balance sheet. To manage our risk from market interest rates, we actively monitor the interest rates and the interest sensitive components both on- and off-balance sheet to minimize the impact that changes in interest rates have on the fair value of assets, net income and cash flow. To achieve this objective, we manage our exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates by matching asset and liability repricings and through the use of fixed-rate debt instruments to the extent that reasonably favorable rates are obtainable with such arrangements. In addition, we enter into derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps and treasury locks to mitigate our interest rate risk on a related financial instrument or to lock the interest rate on a portion of our variable debt. We do not enter into derivative or interest rate transactions for trading or other speculative purposes. At December 31, 2007, we had $4.8 billion of debt, including $3.5 billion of off-balance sheet debt from our securitization program. As of December 31, 2007 Fixed rate Variablerate Total (In millions) Off-balance sheet $ 2,050.0 $ 1,438.4 $ 3,488.4 On-balance sheet 909.5 421.0 1,330.5 Total $ 2,959.5 $ 1,859.4 $ 4,818.9 • At December 31, 2007, our fixed rate off-balance sheet debt was locked at a current effective interest rate of 4.3% through interest rate swap agreements. • At December 31, 2007, our fixed rate on-balance sheet debt was subject to fixed rates with a weighted average interest rate of 5.5%. A 1.0% increase in interest rates would result in an estimated decrease to pretax income of approximately $10.0 million related to our debt. The foregoing sensitivity analysis is limited to the potential impact of an interest rate increase of 1.0% on cash flows and fair values, and does not address default or credit risk. We expect growth in our credit services segment to result from new and acquired credit card programs whose credit card receivable performance could result in increased portfolio losses and negatively impact our net retained interests in receivables securitized. We expect an important source of growth in our credit card operations to come from the acquisition of existing credit card programs and initiating credit card programs with retailers who do not currently offer a private label or co-branded retail card. Although we believe our pricing and models for determining credit risk are designed to evaluate the credit risk of existing programs and the credit risk we are willing to assume for acquired and start-up programs, we cannot assure you that the loss experience on acquired and start-up programs will be consistent with our more established programs. The failure to successfully underwrite these credit card programs may result in defaults greater than our expectations and could have a materially adverse impact on us and the value of our net retained interests in receivables securitized. Current and proposed regulation and legislation relating to our credit services could limit our business activities, product offerings and fees charged. Various federal and state laws and regulations significantly limit the retail credit services activities in which we are permitted to engage. Such laws and regulations, among other things, limit the fees and other charges that we can impose on consumers, limit or proscribe certain other terms of our products and services, require specified disclosures to consumers, or require that we maintain certain licenses, qualifications and minimum capital levels. In some cases, the precise application of these statutes and regulations is not clear. In addition, 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements numerous legislative and regulatory proposals are advanced each year which, if adopted, could have a materially adverse effect on our profitability or further restrict the manner in which we conduct our activities. The failure to comply with, or adverse changes in, the laws or regulations to which our business is subject, or adverse changes in their interpretation, could have a materially adverse effect on our ability to collect our receivables and generate fees on the receivables, thereby adversely affecting our profitability. If our bank subsidiaries fail to meet certain criteria, we may become subject to regulation under the Bank Holding Company Act, which would force us to cease all of our non-banking activities and thus cause a drastic reduction in our profits and revenue. If either of our depository institution subsidiaries failed to meet the criteria for the exemption from the definition of “bank” in the Bank Holding Company Act under which it operates (which exemptions are described below), and if we did not divest such depository institution upon such an occurrence, we would become subject to regulation under the Bank Holding Company Act. This would require us to cease certain of our activities that are not permissible for companies that are subject to regulation under the Bank Holding Company Act. One of our depository institution subsidiaries, World Financial Network National Bank, is a limited-purpose national credit card bank located in Ohio. World Financial Network National Bank will not be a “bank” as defined under the Bank Holding Company Act so long as it remains in compliance with the following requirements: • it engages only in credit card operations; • it does not accept demand deposits or deposits that the depositor may withdraw by check or similar means for payment to third parties; • it does not accept any savings or time deposits of less than $100,000, except for deposits pledged as collateral for its extensions of credit; • it maintains only one office that accepts deposits; and • it does not engage in the business of making commercial loans. Our other depository institution subsidiary, World Financial Capital Bank, is a Utah industrial bank that is authorized to do business by the State of Utah and the FDIC. World Financial Capital Bank will not be a “bank” as defined under the Bank Holding Company Act so long as it remains an industrial bank in compliance with the following requirements: • it is an institution organized under the laws of a state which, on March 5, 1987, had in effect or had under consideration in such state’s legislature a statute that required or would require such institution to obtain insurance under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act; and • it does not accept demand deposits that the depositor may withdraw by check or similar means for payment to third parties. If our industrial bank fails to meet the requirements of the FDIC or State of Utah, we may be subject to termination of our industrial bank. Our industrial bank, World Financial Capital Bank, is authorized to do business by the State of Utah and the FDIC. World Financial Capital Bank is subject to capital ratios and paid-in capital minimums and must maintain adequate allowances for loan losses. If World Financial Capital Bank fails to meet the requirements of the FDIC or the State of Utah, it may be subject to termination as an industrial bank. 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Risks Particular to Transaction Services In 2007, our Transaction Services segment derived approximately 47.4% of its revenue from servicing cardholder accounts for the Credit Services segment. If the Credit Services segment suffered a significant client loss, our revenue and profitability attributable to the Transaction Services segment could be materially and adversely affected. Our Transaction Services segment performs card processing and servicing activities for cardholder accounts generated by our Credit Services segment. During 2007, our Transaction Services segment derived $357.4 million, or 47.4% of its revenues, from these services for our Credit Services segment. The financial performance of our Transaction Services segment, therefore, is linked to the activities of our Credit Services segment. If the Credit Services segment were to lose a significant client, our revenue and profitability attributable to the Transaction Services segment could be materially and adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 