ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We operate in a rapidly-changing, highly competitive business environment that involves substantial risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risks identified below. The following factors, as well as factors described elsewhere in this report or in our other filings with the SEC, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or operating results, should be carefully considered in evaluating our Company and the forward-looking statements contained in this report or future reports. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently do not view as material, may become material, and may impair our business operations. Any of these risks could cause, or contribute to causing, our actual results to differ materially from expectations. Current economic conditions may adversely impact demand for our products. The apparel industry is cyclical and dependent upon the overall level of discretionary consumer spending which changes as regional, domestic and international economic conditions change. These economic conditions include, but are not limited to, employment levels, energy costs, interest rates, tax rates, personal debt levels, and uncertainty about the future with many of these factors outside of our control. Deterioration in general economic conditions that creates uncertainty or alters discretionary consumer spending habits could reduce our sales. Because we match our manufacturing production to demand, weakening sales may require us to reduce output, thereby increasing per unit costs and lowering our gross margins, causing a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 7 Table of Contents Deterioration of the financial condition of our customers could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. We extend credit to our customers, generally without requiring collateral. Our extension of credit involves considerable judgment and is based on an evaluation of each customer’s financial condition and payment history. We monitor our credit risk exposure by periodically obtaining credit reports and updated financials on our customers. Further deterioration in the economy, continued decline in consumer purchases of apparel, or further disruption in the ability of our customers to access liquidity could have an adverse effect on the financial condition of our customers. We have seen a heightened number of bankruptcies in our customers, especially retailers, and we believe this trend may continue. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for potential credit losses based upon current conditions, our historical trends and other available information. However, the inability to collect on sales to significant customers or a group of customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The apparel industry is highly competitive, and we face significant competitive threats to our business. The market for athletic and activewear apparel and headwear is highly competitive and includes new competitors as well as increased competition from established companies, some of which are larger, more diversified, and have greater financial resources than we do. Many of our competitors have significant competitive advantages, including larger sales forces, better brand recognition among consumers, larger advertising budgets, and greater economies of scale. If we are unable to compete successfully with our competitors, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. We currently pay income taxes at lower than statutory rates, which could change in the future adversely affecting our financial position and results of operations. We are subject to income tax in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions in which we generate net operating revenues. We benefit from a lower overall effective income tax rate due to the majority of our manufacturing operations being located in foreign tax-free locations. Our U.S. legal entity contracts with our foreign subsidiaries to manufacture products on its behalf with the intercompany prices paid for the manufacturing services and manufactured products based on an arms-length standard and supported by an economic study. Because profits earned in the tax-free locations are considered permanently reinvested, no U.S. deferred tax liability is recorded. Therefore, our effective tax rate may be significantly below U.S. statutory rates. Changes in U.S. tax laws impacting how U.S. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings could have a material adverse effect on our tax expense and cash flow. We may be restricted in our ability to borrow under our credit agreement which could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Significant operating losses or significant uses of cash in our operations could cause us to default on our asset-based revolving credit facility. Our ability to borrow under the credit agreement depends on our accounts receivable and inventory levels. A significant deterioration in our accounts receivable or inventory levels could restrict our ability to borrow funds. In addition, our credit facility includes a financial covenant that if the amount of availability falls below $10 million, our Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio (“FCCR”) (as defined in the credit agreement) for the proceeding 12 month period must not be less than 1.1 to 1.0 or an event of default occurs. An event of default under the credit agreement could result in an acceleration of our obligations under the agreement, in the foreclosure on any assets subject to liens in favor of the credit agreement’s lenders, and in our inability to borrow additional amounts under the credit agreement. While our availability at July 3, 2010, was $35.5 million and our FCCR for the preceding twelve months was 4.0x, a significant decline in our profitability could cause our FCCR to fall below 1.1x, thereby requiring us to maintain a minimum availability of $10 million. This could restrict our ability to borrow funds and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. We may need to raise additional capital to grow our business and if unable to do so, we will need to modify our growth strategy. While our existing credit facility should be adequate to support our existing business in the foreseeable future, the rate of our growth, especially through acquisitions, will depend on the availability of debt and equity capital. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to raise capital on terms acceptable to us or at all. If new sources of financing are required, but are insufficient or unavailable, we will be required to modify our growth and operating plans based on available funding, which could adversely affect our ability to grow our business. We have expanded our business through acquisitions that could result in diversion of resources, an inability to integrate acquired operations and extra expenses. Our growth strategy involves acquiring businesses that complement of our existing business. The negotiation of potential acquisitions and integration of acquired businesses could divert our management’s attention from our existing businesses which could negatively impact the results of operations. In addition, if the integration of an acquired business is not successful or takes significantly longer than expected, or if we are unable to realize the expected benefits from an acquired business, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The price of our purchased raw materials is prone to significant fluctuations and volatility. Yarn is the primary raw material used in the manufacture of our apparel products. As described under the heading “Raw Materials”, the purchase price of yarn purchased from Parkdale is based upon the cost of cotton plus a fixed conversion cost. We set future cotton prices with 8 Table of Contents purchase commitments as a component of the purchase price of yarn in advance of the shipment of finished yarn from Parkdale. Prices are set according to prevailing prices, as reported by the New York Cotton Exchange, at the time we enter into the commitments. Thus, we are subject to the commodity risk of cotton prices and cotton price movements, which could result in unfavorable yarn pricing for us. For example, we estimate that a change of $0.01 per pound in cotton prices would affect our annual raw material costs by approximately $0.6 million at current levels of production. While changes in cotton prices are typically passed along to consumers over time, a dramatic increase in the price of cotton could adversely impact our results of operations in the short-term. In addition, if Parkdale’s operations are disrupted and it is not able to provide us with our yarn requirements, we may need to obtain yarn from alternative sources. We may not be able to enter into arrangements with substitute suppliers on terms as favorable as our current terms with Parkdale, which could negatively affect our business. The price of energy is prone to significant fluctuations and volatility which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our manufacturing operations require high inputs of energy, and therefore changes in energy prices directly impact our gross profits. Energy costs increased during fiscal year 2010 and remain volatile based on a number of factors, including general economic conditions. We continue to focus on manufacturing methods that will reduce the amount of energy used in the production of our products to mitigate risks of fluctuations in the cost of energy. In addition, we enter into forward contracts to fix a portion of our expected natural gas requirements for delivery in the future in order to mitigate potential increases in costs. However, significant increases in energy prices may make us less competitive compared to others in the industry, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Significant increases in the costs of freight and transportation could adversely affect our results of operations. We incur significant freight costs to transport our goods between the United States and our offshore facilities. In addition, we incur transportation expenses to ship our products to our customers. In recent months there has been a shortage of freight capacity which has caused freight costs to increase. In addition, volatility in fuel costs impacts the overall cost of transportation. Significant increases in the costs of freight and transportation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, as there can be no assurance that we could pass these increased costs to our customers. Our business operations rely on our information systems and any material disruption or slowdown of our systems could cause operational delays that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We depend on information systems to manage our inventory, process transactions, respond to customer inquiries, purchase, sell and ship goods on a timely basis and maintain cost-effective operations. We have invested significant capital and expect future capital expenditures associated with the integration of our information technology systems across our businesses. This process involves the replacement and consolidation of technology platforms so our businesses are served by fewer platforms, resulting in operational efficiencies and reduced costs. Our inability to effectively convert our operations to the new systems could cause delays in product fulfillment and reduced efficiency in our operations. In addition, we may experience operational problems with our information systems as a result of system failures, viruses, security breaches, disasters or other causes. Any material disruption or slowdown of our information systems could cause operational delays that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business could be harmed if we are unable to deliver our products to the market due to problems with our distribution network. We have company-owned and leased distribution facilities located throughout the United States. Any significant interruption in the operation of any of these facilities, whether within or outside of our control, may delay shipment of merchandise to our customers, potentially damaging our reputation and causing a loss of revenue. In addition, if we are unable to successfully coordinate the planning of inventory across these facilities and the distribution activities, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Failure of our operations to comply with environmental regulation could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Our operations must meet extensive federal, state and local regulatory standards in the areas of safety, health and environmental pollution controls. There can be no assurance that interpretations of existing regulations, future changes in existing laws, or the enactment of new laws and regulations will not require substantial additional expenditures. Although we believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with existing regulatory requirements, the extent of our liability, if any, for the discovery of currently unknown problems or conditions, or past failures to comply with laws, regulations and permits applicable to our operations, cannot be determined and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We are subject to periodic litigation in both domestic and international jurisdictions that may adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. From time to time we may be involved in legal actions regarding product liability, employment practices, trademark infringement, bankruptcies and other litigation. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation in both domestic and foreign jurisdictions, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings. Proceedings could cause us to incur costs and may require us to devote resources to defend against these claims 9 Table of Contents and could ultimately result in a loss against these claims, which could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. For a description of current legal proceedings, see Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to predict or effectively react to changing consumer preferences and trends. The success of our businesses depends on our ability to anticipate and respond quickly to changing consumer demand and preferences in apparel and headwear. We believe that our brands are recognized by consumers across many demographics. The popularity, supply and demand for particular products can change significantly from year to year based on prevailing fashion trends and other factors and therefore our ability to adapt to fashion trends in designing our products is important to the success of our brands. If we are unable to quickly adapt to changes in consumer preferences in the design of our products, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We rely on the strength of our trademarks and could incur significant costs to protect these trademarks. Our trademarks include Soffe®, Junk Food® and The Game® among others. In addition, we have trademarked the Three-Bar-Design and the Circle Design, which are recognized collegiate designs. We have incurred legal costs in the past to establish and protect these trademarks, but these costs have not been significant. We may in the future be required to expend additional resources to protect these trademarks. The loss or limitation of the exclusive right to use our trademarks could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. A significant portion of our business relies upon license agreements and the loss of or failure to obtain license agreements could negatively impact our results of operations. We rely on our licensed products for a significant part of our sales. Although we are not dependent on any single license, we believe that our license agreements in the aggregate are of significant value to our business. The loss of or failure to obtain license agreements could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. We may be subject to the impairment of acquired intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. When we acquire a business, a portion of the purchase price of the acquisition may be allocated to goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. The amount of the purchase price that is allocated to goodwill and other intangible assets is determined by the excess of the purchase price over the net identifiable assets acquired. At July 3, 2010 and June 27, 2009, our goodwill and other intangible assets were approximately $25.4 million and $23.9 million, respectively. We conduct an annual review, and more frequent reviews if events or circumstances dictate, to determine whether goodwill is impaired. We also determine whether impairment indicators are present related to our identifiable intangible assets. If we determine that goodwill or intangible assets are impaired, we would be required to write down the value of these assets. We completed our annual review of goodwill for our fiscal year ended July 3, 2010, and concluded that no impairment charge was necessary. We have also concluded that there are no indicators of impairment related to our intangible assets. There can, however, be no assurance that we will not be required to take an impairment charge in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Changes in the regulations and laws regarding e-commerce could limit our ability to grow, negatively impacting our results of operations. The e-commerce industry has undergone, and continues to undergo, rapid development and change. There have been continuing efforts to increase the legal and regulatory obligations and restrictions on companies conducting commerce through the internet, primarily in the areas of taxation, consumer privacy and protection of consumer personal information. These laws and regulations could increase the costs and liabilities associated with our e-commerce activities and increase the price of our product to consumers, without a corresponding increase in our revenue or net income, thereby negatively impacting our results of operations. Our Activewear segment is subject to significant pricing pressures which may decrease our gross profit margins if we are unable to implement our cost reduction strategies. We operate our Activewear segment in a highly competitive, price sensitive industry. Our strategy in this market environment is to be a low-cost producer and to differentiate ourselves by providing quality products and value-added services to our customers. To help achieve this goal, we began production in Ceiba Textiles, our Honduran textile facility, in fiscal year 2008. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009, we closed our Soffe textile manufacturing in Fayetteville, North Carolina and moved this production to our Maiden, North Carolina and Ceiba Textiles plants. In fiscal year 2010, we began the expansion of Ceiba Textiles to increase internal manufacturing capacity and further leverage the fixed cost of the facility. These initiatives, along with continual improvements in our production and delivery of products, are expected to lower our product costs and improve our results of operations. Failure to achieve the cost savings expected from these initiatives could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our operations are subject to political, social, economic, and climate risks in Mexico, Honduras and El Salvador which could negatively impact our financial position and results of operations. The majority of our products are manufactured in Honduras, El Salvador and Mexico, with a concentration in Honduras. These countries have experienced political, social and economic instability in the past, and we cannot be certain of their future stability. Instability in a country can lead to protests, 10 Table of Contents riots and labor unrest. New government leaders can change employment laws, thereby increasing our costs to operate in that country. In addition, fire or natural disasters, such as hurricanes, earthquakes, or floods can occur in these countries. Any of these political, social, economic or climatic events or conditions could disrupt our supply chain or increase our costs, adversely affecting our financial position and results of operations. Significant changes to international trade regulations could adversely affect our results of operations. The majority of our products are manufactured in Honduras, El Salvador and Mexico. We therefore benefit from current free trade agreements and other duty preference programs, including the North American Free Trade Agreement (“NAFTA”) and the Central America Free Trade Agreement (“CAFTA”). Our claims for duty free or reduced duty treatment under CAFTA, NAFTA and other available programs are largely conditioned on our ability to produce or obtain accurate records, some of which are provided to us by third parties, about production processes and sources of raw materials. Subsequent repeal or modification of NAFTA or CAFTA, or the inadequacy or unavailability of supporting records, could materially adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, our products are subject to foreign competition, which in the past has been faced with significant U.S. government import restrictions. The extent of import protection afforded to domestic apparel producers has been, and is likely to remain, subject to political considerations. The elimination of import protections for domestic apparel producers could significantly increase global competition, which could adversely affect our business. The market price of Delta Apparel shares is affected by illiquidity of our shares, which could lead to our shares trading at prices that are significantly lower than expected. Various investment banking firms have informed us that public companies with relatively small market capitalizations have difficulty generating institutional interest, research coverage or trading volume. This illiquidity can translate into price discounts as compared to industry peers or to the shares’ inherent value. We believe that the market perceives us to have a relatively small market capitalization. This could lead to our shares trading at prices that are significantly lower than our estimate of their inherent value. As of August 28, 2010, we had 8,520,960 shares of common stock outstanding. We believe that approximately 59% of our stock is beneficially owned by those who own more than 5% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Included in the 59% are institutional investors that beneficially own more than 5% of the outstanding shares. These institutional investors own approximately 44% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market by any of these large holders could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 