ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this report, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business and us: Our substantial debt could adversely affect our cash flows and limit our flexibility to raise additional capital. We have a significant amount of debt. As of December 31, 2008, our total indebtedness was approximately $1.2 billion, our stockholders’ equity was $892.7 million and our cash and investments totaled $307.9 million. Our substantial amount of debt could have important consequences. For example, it could: • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make payments on our debt, reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund future capital expenditures, working capital, execution of our expansion strategy and other general corporate requirements; • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our various debt instruments; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions and adverse changes in governmental regulations; 11 Table of Contents • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors; • limit our ability to borrow additional funds, even when necessary to maintain adequate liquidity, which would also limit our ability to further expand our business; and • make us more vulnerable to increases in interest rates because of the variable interest rates on some of our borrowings to the extent we have not effectively hedged such variable rates. The occurrence of any of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the performance of our stock price may trigger events that would require the write-off of a significant portion of our debt issuance costs related to our convertible debt, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, of our total indebtedness as of December 31, 2008, $576.0 million was non-convertible senior debt (of which $251.7 million is with a single lender). Although these are committed facilities, virtually all of which are fully drawn or advanced for which we are amortizing debt repayments of either principal and/or interest only, and we are in full compliance with all covenants related to them effective December 31, 2008 (we amended certain provisions in connection with one of our financings related to certain financial covenants effective December 31, 2008), deteriorating market and liquidity conditions may give rise to issues which may impact the lenders’ ability to hold these debt commitments to their full term. Accordingly, these lenders of committed and drawn facilities may attempt to call this debt which would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, even though no call provisions exist without being in default. We may also need to refinance a portion of our outstanding debt as it matures. There is a risk that we may not be able to refinance existing debt or that the terms of any refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of our existing debt. Furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase. These risks could adversely affect our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. If we are not able to generate sufficient operating cash flows or obtain external financing, our ability to fund incremental expansion plans may be limited. Our capital expenditures, together with ongoing operating expenses and obligations to service our debt, will be a substantial drain on our cash flow and may decrease our cash balances. The capital markets are currently limited for external financing opportunities. Additional debt or equity financing, especially in the current credit-constrained climate, may not be available when needed or, if available, may not be available on satisfactory terms. Our inability to obtain needed debt and/or equity financing or to generate sufficient cash from operations may require us to prioritize projects or curtail capital expenditures which could adversely affect our results of operations. The global financial crisis may have an impact on our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict. The continued credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial markets has had and may continue to have an impact on our business and our financial condition. For example, we are currently unable to access cash invested with the Reserve Primary Fund, a prime obligations money market fund that has suspended redemptions and is being liquidated. While the Company received periodic distributions from the Reserve in October and December of 2008, the Reserve continues to hold a portion of our investment balance. We had invested approximately $50.9 million in this fund, wrote-off $1.5 million and have received redemptions of approximately $40.2 million. The remaining balance still held at the Reserve had a fair value of approximately $9.2 million as of December 31, 2008. In February 2009, we received an additional distribution of $3.4 million from the Reserve. While we expect to receive substantially all of our remaining holdings in this fund within the next six 12 Table of Contents months, we cannot predict when this will occur or the amount we will receive. Further, a number of litigation claims have been filed against the Reserve’s management which could potentially delay the timing and amount of the final distributions of the fund. If the litigation were to continue for an extended period of time it is possible that the Reserve management’s cost of defending these claims could also reduce the final amount of distribution to us. We do not believe that the current liquidity issues related to this fund will impact our ongoing business operations. However, if the current market conditions continue to deteriorate, we may suffer further losses on our investment portfolio, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. The global financial crisis could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity in other ways. Customer collections are our primary source of cash. While we believe we have a strong customer base and have experienced strong collections in the past, if the current market conditions continue to deteriorate some of our customers may begin to have difficulty paying us and we may experience increased churn in our customer base, including reductions in their commitments to us. For example, we have a number of large customers in the financial services sector which has been significantly impacted by the downturn. We may also be required to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts and our results would be negatively impacted. Our sales cycle could also be lengthened as customers slow spending, or delay decision-making, on our products and services, which could adversely affect our revenue growth. Finally, we could also experience pricing pressure as a result of economic conditions if our competitors lower prices and attempt to lure away our customers with lower cost solutions. The credit crisis could also have an impact on our foreign exchange forward contract and interest rate swap hedging contracts if our counterparties are forced to file for bankruptcy or are otherwise unable to perform their obligations. Finally, our ability to access the capital markets may be severely restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to do so, which could have an impact on our flexibility to pursue additional expansion opportunities and maintain our desired level of revenue growth in the future. We are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our portfolio investments and in interest rates; impairment of our investments could harm our results of operations. We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types and maturities, including money market funds and other short-term and long-term securities. These securities are classified as available-for-sale and, consequently, are recorded on our consolidated balance sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income or loss. Our portfolio includes fixed income securities, the values of which are subject to market price volatility and changes in interest rates. If the market price declines, we may recognize in our statements of operations the decline in fair value of our investments below the cost basis when the decline is judged to be other-than-temporary. For information regarding the sensitivity of and risks associated with the market value of our portfolio and interest rates, refer to our discussion of our investment portfolio and interest rate risks in “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” included in Part II, Item 7A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates in the markets in which we operate internationally could harm our results of operations. We may experience gains and losses resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. To date, the majority of our revenues and costs have been denominated in U.S. dollars; however, the majority of revenues and costs in our international operations have been denominated in foreign currencies. Where our prices are denominated in U.S. dollars, our sales could be adversely affected by declines in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar, thereby making our products and services more expensive in local currencies. We are also exposed to risks resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates in connection with our international expansions. To the extent we are paying contractors in foreign currencies, our expansions could cost more than 13 Table of Contents anticipated from declines in the U.S dollar relative to foreign currencies. In addition, fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates have a direct impact on how our international results of operations translate into U.S. dollars. Although we have in the past, and may decide in the future, to undertake foreign exchange hedging transactions to reduce foreign currency transaction exposure, we do not currently intend to eliminate all foreign currency transaction exposure. For example, while we hedge certain of our foreign currency assets and liabilities on our balance sheet, we do not hedge revenue. During fiscal 2007 and the first half of 2008, the U.S. dollar had been generally weaker relative to the currencies of the foreign countries in which we operate. This overall weakness of the U.S. dollar had a positive impact on our consolidated results of operations because the foreign denominations translated into more U.S. dollars. However, during the second half of 2008, the U.S. dollar strengthened relative to certain of the currencies of the foreign countries in which we operate. This significantly impacted our consolidated financial position and results of operations as amounts in foreign currencies are generally translating into less U.S. dollars. Further strengthening of the U.S. dollar would continue to have a significant impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations including the amount of revenue that we report in future periods. For additional information on foreign currency risk, refer to our discussion of foreign currency risk in “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” included in Part II, Item 7A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our products and services have a long sales cycle that may harm our revenues and operating results. A customer’s decision to license cabinet space in one of our IBX centers and to purchase additional services typically involves a significant commitment of resources. In addition, some customers will be reluctant to commit to locating in our IBX centers until they are confident that the IBX center has adequate carrier connections. As a result, we have a long sales cycle. Furthermore, we may expend significant time and resources in pursuing a particular sale or customer that does not result in revenue. The current economic downturn may further impact this long sales cycle by making it extremely difficult for customers to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. This could cause customers to slow spending, or delay decision-making, on our products and services, which would delay and lengthen our sales cycle. Delays due to the length of our sales cycle may materially and adversely affect our revenues and operating results, which could harm our ability to meet our forecasts for a given quarter and cause volatility in our stock price. We have incurred substantial losses in the past and may incur additional losses in the future. As of December 31, 2008 our accumulated deficit was $427.1 million. Although we generated net income during 2008, our first full year of net income since our inception, we are also currently investing heavily in our future growth through the build-out of several additional IBX centers and IBX center expansions. As a result, we will incur higher depreciation and other operating expenses, as well as interest expense, that may negatively impact our ability to sustain profitability in future periods unless and until these new IBX centers generate enough revenue to exceed their operating costs and cover our additional overhead needed to scale our business for this anticipated growth. The current global financial crisis may also further add to our losses if we cannot generate sufficient revenue to offset the increased costs of our recently-opened IBX centers or IBX centers currently under construction. In addition, costs associated with the acquisition and integration of any acquired companies, as well as the additional interest expense associated with debt financing we have undertaken to fund our growth initiatives, may also negatively impact our ability to sustain profitability. Finally, given the competitive and evolving nature of the industry in which we operate, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. 14 Table of Contents We are continuing to invest in our expansion efforts but may not have sufficient customer demand in the future to realize expected returns on these investments. We are considering the acquisition or lease of additional properties and the construction of new IBX centers beyond those expansion projects already announced. We will be required to commit substantial operational and financial resources to these IBX centers, generally 12 to 18 months in advance of securing customer contracts, and we may not have sufficient customer demand in those markets to support these centers once they are built. In addition, unanticipated technological changes could affect customer requirements for data centers and we may not have built such requirements into our new IBX centers. Either of these contingencies, if they were to occur, could make it difficult for us to realize expected or reasonable returns on these investments. Our construction of additional new IBX centers could involve significant risks to our business. In order to sustain our growth in certain of our existing and new markets, we must acquire suitable land with or without structures to build new IBX centers from the ground up. We call these “greenfield builds.” Greenfield builds are currently underway, or being contemplated, in several key markets. A greenfield build involves substantial planning and lead-time, much longer time to completion than an IBX retrofit of an existing data center, and significantly higher costs of construction, equipment and materials, which could have a negative impact on our returns. A greenfield build also requires us to carefully select and rely on the experience of one or more general contractors and associated subcontractors during the construction process. Should a general contractor or significant subcontractor experience financial or other problems during the construction process, we could experience significant delays, increased costs to complete the project and other negative impacts to our expected returns. Site selection is also a critical factor in our expansion plans, and there may not be suitable properties available in our markets with the necessary combination of high power capacity and fiber connectivity. While we may prefer to locate new IBX centers adjacent to our existing locations, we may be limited by the inventory and location of suitable properties as well as by the need for adequate power and fiber to the site. In the event we decide to build new IBX centers separate from our existing IBX centers, we may provide services to interconnect these two centers. Should these services not provide the necessary reliability to sustain service, this could result in lower interconnection revenue and lower margins and could have a negative impact on customer retention over time. Any failure of our physical infrastructure or services could lead to significant costs and disruptions that could reduce our revenue and harm our business reputation and financial results. Our business depends on providing customers with highly reliable service. We must protect our customers’ IBX infrastructure and their equipment located in our IBX centers. We continue to acquire IBX centers not built by us. If we discover that these IBX centers and their infrastructure assets are not in the condition we expected when they were acquired, we may be required to incur substantial additional costs to repair or upgrade the centers. The services we provide in each of our IBX centers are subject to failure resulting from numerous factors, including: • human error; • equipment failure; • physical or electronic security breaches; • fire, earthquake, flood, tornados and other natural disasters; • extreme temperatures; • water damage; • fiber cuts; 15 Table of Contents • power loss; • terrorist acts; • sabotage and vandalism; and • the failure of business partners who provide our resale products. Problems at one or more of our IBX centers, whether or not within our control, could result in service interruptions or significant equipment damage. We have service level commitment obligations to certain of our customers, including our significant customers. As a result, service interruptions or significant equipment damage in our IBX centers could result in difficulty maintaining service level commitments to these customers and potential claims related to such failures. Because our IBX centers are critical to many of our customers’ businesses, service interruptions or significant equipment damage in our IBX centers could also result in lost profits or other indirect or consequential damages to our customers. We cannot guarantee that a court would enforce any contractual limitations on our liability in the event that one of our customers brings a lawsuit against us as the result of a problem at one of our IBX centers. We may incur significant liability to our customers in connection with a loss of power or our failure to meet other service level commitment obligations, or if we are held liable for a substantial damage award. In addition, any loss of service, equipment damage or inability to meet our service level commitment obligations could reduce the confidence of our customers and could consequently impair our ability to obtain and retain customers, which would adversely affect both our ability to generate revenues and our operating results. Furthermore, we are dependent upon Internet service providers, telecommunications carriers and other website operators in the U.S., Asia-Pacific region, Europe and elsewhere, some of which have experienced significant system failures and electrical outages in the past. Users of our services may in the future experience difficulties due to system failures unrelated to our systems and services. If for any reason, these providers fail to provide the required services, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. The market price of our stock may continue to be highly volatile, and the value of an investment in our common stock may decline. Since January 1, 2008, the closing sale price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market ranged from $35.14 to $100.75 per share. The market price of the shares of our common stock has been and may continue to be highly volatile. General economic and market conditions, and market conditions for telecommunications stocks in general, may affect the market price of our common stock. Announcements by others or us may also have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. These announcements may relate to: • our operating results or forecasts; • new issuances of equity, debt or convertible debt by us; • developments in our relationships with corporate customers; • announcements by our customers or competitors; • changes in regulatory policy or interpretation; • governmental investigations; • changes in the ratings of our stock by securities analysts; • our purchase or development of real estate and/or additional IBX centers; 16 Table of Contents • acquisitions by us of complementary businesses; or • the operational performance of our IBX centers. The stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, which have particularly affected the market prices for emerging telecommunications companies, and which have often been unrelated to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We expect our operating results to fluctuate. We have experienced fluctuations in our results of operations on a quarterly and annual basis. The fluctuations in our operating results may cause the market price of our common stock to be volatile. We expect to experience significant fluctuations in our operating results in the foreseeable future due to a variety of factors, including, but not limited to: • fluctuations of foreign currencies in the markets in which we operate; • the timing and magnitude of capital expenditures, financing or other expenses related to the acquisition, purchase or construction of additional IBX centers or the upgrade of existing IBX centers; • demand for space, power and services at our IBX centers; • changes in general economic conditions, such as the current economic downturn, and specific market conditions in the telecommunications and Internet industries, both of which may have an impact on our customer base; • costs associated with the write-off or exit of unimproved or underutilized property, or the reversal of prior exit costs due to a change in strategy; • charges to earnings resulting from past acquisitions due to, among other things, impairment of goodwill or intangible assets, reduction in the useful lives of intangible assets acquired, identification of additional assumed contingent liabilities or revised estimates to restructure an acquired company’s operations; • the duration of the sales cycle for our services; • restructuring charges or reversals of existing restructuring charges, which may be necessary due to revised sublease assumptions, changes in strategy or otherwise; • acquisitions or dispositions we may make; • the financial condition and credit risk of our customers; • the provision of customer discounts and credits; • the mix of current and proposed products and services and the gross margins associated with our products and services; • the timing required for new and future centers to open or become fully utilized; • competition in the markets in which we operate; • conditions related to international operations; • increasing repair and maintenance expenses in connection with aging IBX centers; • lack of available capacity in our existing IBX centers to generate new revenue or delays in opening up new or acquired IBX centers that delay our ability to generate new revenue in markets which have otherwise reached capacity; 17 Table of Contents • changes in rent expense as we amend our IBX center leases in connection with extending their lease terms when their initial lease term expiration dates approach; • the timing and magnitude of other operating expenses, including taxes, expenses related to the expansion of sales, marketing, operations and acquisitions, if any, of complementary businesses and assets; • the cost and availability of adequate public utilities, including power; • changes in employee stock-based compensation; • changes in income tax benefit or expense; and • changes in or new generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the U.S. as periodically released by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB). Any of the foregoing factors, or other factors discussed elsewhere in this report, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Although we have experienced growth in revenues in recent quarters, this growth rate is not necessarily indicative of future operating results. Prior to 2008, we had generated net losses every fiscal year since inception. It is possible that we may not be able to generate positive net income on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. In addition, a relatively large portion of our expenses are fixed in the short-term, particularly with respect to lease and personnel expenses, depreciation and amortization and interest expenses. Therefore, our results of operations are particularly sensitive to fluctuations in revenues. As such, comparisons to prior reporting periods should not be relied upon as indications of our future performance. In addition, our operating results in one or more future quarters may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If this occurs, we could experience an immediate and significant decline in the trading price of our stock. We are exposed to potential risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Although we received an unqualified opinion regarding the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, in the course of our ongoing evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting we have identified certain areas which we would like to improve and are in the process of evaluating and designing enhanced processes and controls to address these areas identified during our evaluation, none of which we believe constitutes a material change. However, we cannot be certain that our efforts will be effective or sufficient for us, or our independent registered public accounting firm, to issue unqualified reports in the future, especially as our business continues to grow and evolve. Our ability to manage our operations and growth will require us to improve our operational, financial and management controls, as well as our internal reporting systems and controls. We may not be able to implement improvements to our internal reporting systems and controls in an efficient and timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. Any such deficiencies could result in material misstatements in our consolidated financial statements. If we cannot effectively manage our international operations, and successfully implement our international expansion plans, our revenues may not increase and our business and results of operations would be harmed. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, we recognized 37%, 23% and 14%, respectively, of our revenues outside the U.S. To date, the neutrality of our IBX centers and the variety of networks available to our customers has often been a competitive advantage for us. In certain of our acquired IBX centers in the Asia-Pacific region the limited 18 Table of Contents number of carriers available reduces that advantage. As a result, we may need to adapt our key revenue-generating services and pricing to be competitive in those markets. In addition, we are currently undergoing expansions or evaluating expansion opportunities in Europe and in the Asia-Pacific region. Undertaking and managing expansions in foreign jurisdictions may present unanticipated challenges to us. Our international operations are generally subject to a number of additional risks, including: • the costs of customizing IBX centers in foreign countries; • protectionist laws and business practices favoring local competition; • greater difficulty or delay in accounts receivable collection; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, including negotiating with foreign labor unions or workers’ councils; • political and economic instability; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • difficulties in repatriating funds from certain countries; • our ability to obtain, transfer, or maintain licenses required by governmental entities with respect to our business; • compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; and • compliance with evolving governmental regulation with which we have little experience. The increased use of high power density equipment may limit our ability to fully utilize our IBX centers. Customers are increasing their use of high-density electrical power equipment, such as blade servers, in our IBX centers which has significantly increased the demand for power on a per cabinet basis. Because many of our IBX centers were built a number of years ago, the current demand for electrical power may exceed the designed electrical capacity in these centers. As electrical power, not space, is typically the limiting factor in our IBX centers, our ability to fully utilize those IBX centers may be limited. The availability of sufficient power may also pose a risk to the successful operation of our new IBX centers. The ability to increase the power capacity of an IBX center, should we decide to, is dependent on several factors including, but not limited to, the local utility’s ability to provide additional power; the length of time required to provide such power; and/or whether it is feasible to upgrade the electrical infrastructure of an IBX center to deliver additional power to customers. Although we are currently designing and building to a much higher power specification, there is a risk that demand will continue to increase and our IBX centers could become obsolete sooner than expected. Acquisitions present many risks, and we may not realize the financial or strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of any transaction. Over the last several years we have completed several acquisitions (including our acquisitions of IXEurope plc in 2007 and Virtu Secure Webservices B.V. in 2008) and we may make additional acquisitions in the future. These acquisitions may include acquisitions of businesses, products, services or technologies that we believe to be complementary, as well as acquisitions of new IBX centers or real estate for development of new IBX centers. We may pay for future acquisitions by using our existing cash resources (which may limit other potential uses of our cash), incurring additional debt (which may increase our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements) and/or issuing shares (which may dilute our existing stockholders and have a negative effect on our earnings per share). Acquisitions expose us to several potential risks, including: • the possible disruption of our ongoing business and diversion of management’s attention by acquisition, transition and integration activities; 19 Table of Contents • our potential inability to successfully pursue or realize some or all of the anticipated revenue opportunities associated with an acquisition, some of which would be anticipated in any purchase price; • the possibility that we may not be able to successfully integrate acquired businesses or achieve anticipated operating efficiencies or cost savings; • the possibility of customer dissatisfaction if we are unable to achieve levels of quality and stability on par with past practices; • the possibility that our customers may not accept either the existing equipment infrastructure or the “look-and-feel” of a new or different IBX center; • the possibility that additional capital expenditures may be required; • the possible loss or reduction in value of acquired businesses; • the possibility that carriers may find it cost-prohibitive or impractical to bring fiber and networks into a new IBX center; • the possibility of litigation or other claims in connection with or as a result of an acquisition, including claims from terminated employees, customers, former stockholders or other third parties; and • the possibility of pre-existing undisclosed liabilities, including but not limited to environmental or asbestos liability, for which insurance coverage may be insufficient or unavailable. The occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. We cannot assure you that the price for any future acquisitions of IBX centers will be similar to prior IBX center acquisitions. In fact, we expect acquisition costs, including capital expenditures required to build or render new IBX centers operational, to increase in the future. If our revenue does not keep pace with these potential acquisition and expansion costs, we may not be able to maintain our current or expected margins as we absorb these additional expenses. There is no assurance we would successfully overcome these risks or any other problems encountered with these acquisitions. Our business could be harmed by prolonged electrical power outages or shortages, increased costs of energy or general lack of availability of electrical resources. Our IBX centers are susceptible to regional costs of power, electrical power shortages, planned or unplanned power outages and limitations, especially internationally, on the availability of adequate power resources. Power outages, such as those that occurred in California during 2001, the Northeast in 2003, and from the tornados on the U.S. east coast in 2004, could harm our customers and our business. We attempt to limit exposure to system downtime by using backup generators and power supplies; however, we may not be able to limit our exposure entirely even with these protections in place, as was the case with the power outages we experienced in our Chicago and Washington, D.C. metro area IBX centers in 2005 and London metro area IBX centers in 2007. In addition, global fluctuations in the price of power can increase the cost of energy, and although contractual price increase clauses exist in the majority of our customer agreements, we may not always choose to pass these increased costs on to our customers. In each of our markets, we rely on third parties to provide a sufficient amount of power for current and future customers. At the same time, power and cooling requirements are growing on a per unit basis. As a result, some customers are consuming an increasing amount of power per cabinet. We generally do not control the amount of electric power our customers draw from their installed circuits. This means that we could face power 20 Table of Contents limitations in our centers. This could have a negative impact on the effective available capacity of a given center and limit our ability to grow our business, which could have a negative impact on our financial performance, operating results and cash flows. We may also have difficulty obtaining sufficient power capacity for potential expansion sites in new or existing markets. We may experience significant delays and substantial increased costs demanded by the utilities to provide the level of electrical service required by our current IBX center designs. We may be forced to take steps, and may be prevented from pursuing certain business opportunities, to ensure compliance with certain tax-related covenants agreed to by us. We agreed to a covenant in connection with our combination with i-STT Pte Ltd and Pihana Pacific, Inc. in 2002 (which we refer to as the FIRPTA covenant) that we would use all commercially reasonable efforts to ensure that at all times from and after the closing of the combination none of our capital stock issued to STT Communications would constitute “United States real property interests” within the meaning of Section 897(c) of the Code. Under Section 897(c) of the Code, our capital stock issued to STT Communications would generally constitute “United States real property interests” at such point in time that the fair market value of the “United States real property interests” owned by us equals or exceeds 50% of the sum of the aggregate fair market values of (a) our “United States real property interests,” (b) our interests in real property located outside the United States and (c) any other assets held by us which are used or held for use in our trade or business. Currently, the fair market value of our “United States real property interests” is significantly below the 50% threshold. However, in order to ensure compliance with the FIRPTA covenant, we may be limited with respect to the business opportunities we may pursue, particularly if the business opportunities would increase the amounts of “United States real property interests” owned by us or decrease the amount of other assets owned by us. In addition, we may take proactive steps to avoid our capital stock being deemed a “United States real property interest,” including, but not limited to, (a) a sale-leaseback transaction with respect to some or all of our real property interests, or (b) the formation of a holding company organized under the laws of the Republic of Singapore which would issue shares of its capital stock in exchange for all of our outstanding stock (which would require the submission of that transaction to our stockholders for their approval and the consummation of that exchange). We will take these actions only if such actions are commercially reasonable for our stockholders and us. We have entered into an agreement with STT Communications and its affiliate pursuant to which we will no longer be bound by the FIRPTA covenant as of September 30, 2009. If we were to breach this covenant, we may be liable for damages to STT Communications. Increases in property taxes could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our IBX centers are subject to state and local real property taxes in the U.S. and certain of our foreign jurisdictions. The state and local real property taxes on our IBX centers may increase as property tax rates change and as the value of the properties are assessed or reassessed by taxing authorities. Many state and local governments are facing budget deficits, which may cause them to increase assessments or taxes. If property taxes increase, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. A small number of our stockholders has voting control over a substantial portion of our stock and has influence over matters requiring stockholder consent. Several of our stockholders each hold voting control over greater than 10% of our outstanding common stock. In addition, these stockholders are not prohibited from buying shares of our stock in public or private transactions. As a result, each of these stockholders is able to exercise significant control over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, which could prevent or delay a third party from acquiring or merging with us. 21 Table of Contents We have various mechanisms in place that may discourage takeover attempts. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring control of us in a merger, acquisition or similar transaction that a stockholder may consider favorable. Such provisions include: • authorization for the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock; • the prohibition of cumulative voting in the election of directors; • a super-majority voting requirement to effect business combinations or certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws; • limits on the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; • the prohibition of stockholder action by written consent; and • advance notice requirements for nominations to the Board or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which restricts certain business combinations with interested stockholders in certain situations, may also discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us. Environmental regulations may impose upon us new or unexpected costs. We are subject to various environmental and health and safety laws and regulations, including those relating to the generation, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes. Certain of these laws and regulations also impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault, for investigation and cleanup costs on current and former owners and operators of real property and persons who have disposed of or released hazardous substances into the environment. Our operations involve the use of hazardous substances and materials such as petroleum fuel for emergency generators, as well as batteries, cleaning solutions and other materials. In addition, we lease, own or operate real property at which hazardous substances and regulated materials have been used in the past. At some of our locations, hazardous substances or regulated materials are known to be present in soil or groundwater and there may be additional unknown hazardous substances or regulated materials present at sites we own, operate or lease. At some of our locations, there are land use restrictions in place relating to earlier environmental cleanups that do not materially limit our use of the sites. To the extent any hazardous substances or any other substance or material must be cleaned up or removed from our property, we may be responsible under applicable laws, regulations or leases for the removal or cleanup of such substances or materials, the cost of which could be substantial. In addition, we are subject to environmental, health and safety laws regulating air emissions, storm water management and other issues arising in our business. While these obligations do not normally impose material costs upon our operations, unexpected events, equipment malfunctions and human error, among other factors, can lead to violations of environmental laws, regulations or permits. Noncompliance with existing, or adoption of more stringent, environmental or health and safety laws and regulations or the discovery of previously unknown contamination could require us to incur costs or become the basis of new or increased liabilities that could be material. Fossil fuel combustion creates greenhouse gas emissions that are linked to global climate change. Regulations to limit greenhouse gas emissions are in force in the European Union in an effort to prevent or reduce climate change. In the United States, federal proposals are expected to be introduced that would, if adopted, implement some form of regulation or taxation to reduce or mitigate greenhouse gas emissions. Several states within the United States have adopted laws intended to limit fossil fuel consumption and/or encourage renewable energy development for the same purpose. The proposals include a tax on carbon, a carbon 22 Table of Contents “cap-and-trade” market, and/or other restrictions on carbon and greenhouse gas emissions. California’s Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006 established a statewide greenhouse gas emissions cap and will require mandatory emissions reporting. The area of greenhouse gas limitations and regulation is rapidly changing and will continue to change as additional legislation is considered and adopted, and regulations are finalized that implement existing law. We do not anticipate being directly regulated by each of the potential or developing climate change-related laws and regulations, but the resulting controls on greenhouse gas emissions are likely to increase the costs of electricity or fossil fuels, and these cost increases could materially increase our costs of operation or limit the availability of electricity or emergency generator fuels. If laws reducing greenhouse gas emissions are passed or new regulations are implemented based on existing law, we may be required to modify our emergency power source systems, buildings or other infrastructure in order to comply, the cost of which could be substantial. To the extent any of these environmental regulations impose new or unexpected costs, our business, results of operations or financial condition may be adversely affected. We depend on a number of third parties to provide Internet connectivity to our IBX centers; if connectivity is interrupted or terminated, our operating results and cash flow could be materially and adversely affected. The presence of diverse telecommunications carriers’ fiber networks in our IBX centers is critical to our ability to retain and attract new customers. We are not a telecommunications carrier, and as such we rely on third parties to provide our customers with carrier services. We believe that the availability of carrier capacity will directly affect our ability to achieve our projected results. We rely primarily on revenue opportunities from the telecommunications carriers’ customers to encourage them to invest the capital and operating resources required to connect from their centers to our IBX centers. Carriers will likely evaluate the revenue opportunity of an IBX center based on the assumption that the environment will be highly competitive. We cannot provide assurance that each and every carrier will elect to offer its services within our IBX centers or that once a carrier has decided to provide Internet connectivity to our IBX centers that it will continue to do so for any period of time. Further, many carriers are experiencing business difficulties or announcing consolidations. As a result, some carriers may be forced to downsize or terminate connectivity within our IBX centers, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results. Our new IBX centers require construction and operation of a sophisticated redundant fiber network. The construction required to connect multiple carrier facilities to our IBX centers is complex and involves factors outside of our control, including regulatory processes and the availability of construction resources. If the establishment of highly diverse Internet connectivity to our IBX centers does not occur, is materially delayed or is discontinued, or is subject to failure, our operating results and cash flow will be adversely affected. Any hardware or fiber failures on this network may result in significant loss of connectivity to our new IBX center expansions. This could affect our ability to attract new customers to these IBX centers or retain existing customers. We may be vulnerable to security breaches which could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and operating results. A party who is able to compromise the security measures on our networks or the security of our infrastructure could misappropriate either our proprietary information or the personal information of our customers, or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations. We may be required to expend significant capital and resources to protect against such threats or to alleviate problems caused by breaches in security. As techniques used to breach security change frequently, and are generally not recognized until launched against a target, we may not be able to implement security measures in a timely manner or, if and when implemented, whether these measures could be circumvented. Any breaches that may occur could expose us to increased risk 23 Table of Contents of lawsuits, regulatory penalties, loss of existing or potential customers, harm to our reputation and increases in our security costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and operating results. A small number of customers account for a significant portion of our revenues, and the loss of any of these customers could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. While no single customer accounted for 10% or more of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, our top 10 customers accounted for approximately 20%, 23% and 25%, respectively, of our revenues during these periods. We expect that a small percentage of our customers will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. We cannot guarantee that we will retain these customers or that they will maintain their commitments in our IBX centers at current levels. If we lose any of these key customers, or if any of them decide to reduce the level of their commitment to us, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We resell products and services of third parties that may require us to pay for such products and services even if our customers fail to pay us for them, which may have a negative impact on our operating results. In order to provide resale services such as bandwidth, managed services and other network management services, we contract with third party service providers. These services require us to enter into fixed term contracts for services with third party suppliers of products and services. If we experience the loss of a customer who has purchased a resale product, we may remain obligated to continue to pay our suppliers for the term of the underlying contracts. The payment of these obligations without a corresponding payment from customers will reduce our financial resources and may have a material adverse effect on our operating and financial results and cash flows. We have government customers, which subjects us to risks including early termination, audits, investigations, sanctions and penalties. We derive some revenues from contracts with the U.S. government, state and local governments and their respective agencies. Some of these customers may terminate all or part of their contracts at any time, without cause. There is increased pressure for governments and their agencies, both domestically and internationally, to reduce spending. Some of our federal government contracts are subject to the approval of appropriations being made by the U.S. Congress to fund the expenditures under these contracts. Similarly, some of our contracts at the state and local levels are subject to government funding authorizations. Additionally, government contracts are generally subject to audits and investigations which could result in various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, refund of a portion of fees received, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from future government business. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Our IBX centers and other products and services must be able to differentiate themselves from those of other providers of space and services for telecommunications companies, webhosting companies and other colocation providers. In addition to competing with neutral colocation providers, we must compete with traditional colocation providers, including telecom companies, carriers, Internet service providers and webhosting facilities. Similarly, with respect to our other products and services, including managed services, bandwidth services and security services, we must compete with more established providers of similar services. Most of these companies have longer operating histories and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than us. 24 Table of Contents Because of their greater financial resources, some of our competitors have the ability to adopt aggressive pricing policies, especially if they have been able to restructure their debt or other obligations. As a result, in the future, we may suffer from pricing pressure that would adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and adversely affect our operating results. In addition, these competitors could offer colocation on neutral terms, and may start doing so in the same metropolitan areas in which we have IBX centers. Some of these competitors may also provide our target customers with additional benefits, including bundled communication services, and may do so in a manner that is more attractive to our potential customers than obtaining space in our IBX centers. If these competitors were able to adopt aggressive pricing policies together with offering colocation space, our ability to generate revenues may be materially and adversely affected. We may also face competition from persons seeking to replicate our IBX center concept by building new IBX centers or converting existing IBX centers that some of our competitors are in the process of divesting. We may continue to see increased competition for data center space and customers from large REITS who also operate in our market. We may experience competition from our landlords, some of which are REITS, in this regard. Rather than leasing available space in our buildings to large single tenants, they may decide to convert the space instead to smaller square foot units designed for multi-tenant colocation use. Landlords/REITS may enjoy a cost effective advantage in providing services similar to those provided by our IBX centers, and in addition to the risk of losing customers to these parties this could also reduce the amount of space available to us for expansion in the future. Competitors may operate more successfully or form alliances to acquire significant market share. Furthermore, enterprises that have already invested substantial resources in outsourcing arrangements may be reluctant or slow to replace, limit or compete with their existing systems by becoming a customer. Customers may also decide it is cost effective for them to build out their own data centers which could have a negative impact on our results of operations. In addition, other companies may be able to attract the same potential customers that we are targeting. Once customers are located in competitors’ facilities, it may be extremely difficult to convince them to relocate to our IBX centers. Because we depend on the retention of key employees, failure to maintain competitive compensation packages, including equity incentives, may be disruptive to our business. Our success in retaining key employees and discouraging them from moving to a competitor is an important factor in our ability to remain competitive. As is common in our industry, our employees are typically compensated through grants of equity awards in addition to their regular salaries. In addition to granting equity awards to selected new hires, we periodically grant new equity awards to certain employees as an incentive to remain with us. To the extent we are unable to offer competitive compensation packages to our employees and adequately maintain equity incentives due to equity expensing or otherwise, and should employees decide to leave us, this may be disruptive to our business and may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because we depend on the development and growth of a balanced customer base, failure to attract and retain this base of customers could harm our business and operating results. Our ability to maximize revenues depends on our ability to develop and grow a balanced customer base, consisting of a variety of companies, including global enterprises, content providers, financial companies, and network service providers. The more balanced the customer base within each IBX center, the better we will be able to generate significant interconnection revenues, which in turn increases our overall revenues. Our ability to attract customers to our IBX centers will depend on a variety of factors, including the presence of multiple carriers, the mix of products and services offered by us, the overall mix of customers, the IBX center’s operating reliability and security and our ability to effectively market our services. However, some of our customers are, and are likely to continue to be, Internet companies that face many competitive pressures and that may not ultimately be successful. If these customers do not succeed, they will not continue to use the IBX centers which may be disruptive to our business. Finally, the current economic downturn may harm our ability to attract and retain customers if customers slow spending, or delay decision-making, on our products and services or if 25 Table of Contents customers begin to have difficulty paying us and we experience increased churn in our customer base. Any of these factors may hinder the development and growth of a balanced customer base and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The failure to obtain favorable terms when we renew our IBX center leases could harm our business and results of operations. While we own certain of our IBX centers, others are leased under long-term arrangements with lease terms expiring at various dates ranging from 2009 to 2027. These leased centers have all been subject to significant development by us in order to convert them from, in most cases, vacant buildings or warehouses into IBX centers. All of our IBX center leases have renewal options available to us. However, these renewal options provide for rent set at then-prevailing market rates. To the extent that then-prevailing market rates are higher than present rates, these higher costs may adversely impact our business and results of operations. We are subject to securities class action and other litigation, which may harm our business and results of operations. During the quarter ended September 30, 2001, putative shareholder class action lawsuits were filed against us, a number of our officers and directors, and several investment banks that were underwriters of our initial public offering. Similar complaints were filed against more than 300 other issuers, their officers and directors, and investment banks. The suits allege that the underwriter defendants agreed to allocate stock in our initial public offering to certain investors in exchange for excessive and undisclosed commissions and agreements by those investors to make additional purchases in the aftermarket at pre-determined prices. Plaintiffs allege that the prospectus for our initial public offering was false and misleading and in violation of the securities laws because it did not disclose these arrangements. A previously agreed upon settlement with the plaintiffs has been terminated. On August 14, 2007, the plaintiffs filed amended complaints in six cases selected as test, or “focus,” cases and moved for class certification on September 27, 2007. On October 10, 2008, at the request of Plaintiffs, Plaintiffs’ motion for class certification was withdrawn, without prejudice. The parties in the approximately 300 coordinated class actions, including Equinix, the underwriter defendants in the Equinix class action, and the plaintiffs in the Equinix class action, have reached an agreement in principle under which the insurers for the issuer defendants in the coordinated cases will make the settlement payment on behalf of the issuers, including Equinix. The settlement is subject to approval by the parties and is also subject to Court approval. On August 22, 2008, a complaint was filed against Equinix, certain former officers and directors of Pihana Pacific, Inc. (“Pihana”), certain investors in Pihana, and others. The lawsuit was filed in the First Circuit Court of the State of Hawaii, and arises out of December 2002 agreements pursuant to which Equinix merged Pihana and i-STT (a subsidiary of Singapore Technologies Telemedia Pte Ltd) into the internet exchange services business of Equinix. Plaintiffs, who were allegedly holders of Pihana common stock, allege that their rights as shareholders were violated, and the transaction was effectuated improperly, by Pihana’s majority shareholders, officers and directors, with the alleged assistance of Equinix and others. Among other things, plaintiffs contend that they effectively had a right to block the transaction, that this supposed right was disregarded, and that they improperly received no consideration when the deal was completed. The complaint seeks to recover unspecified punitive damages, equitable relief, fees and costs, and compensatory damages in an amount that plaintiffs allegedly “believe may be all or a substantial portion of the approximately $725 million value of Equinix held by Defendants” (a group that includes more than 30 individuals and entities). An amended complaint, which adds new plaintiffs (other alleged holders of Pihana common stock), but is otherwise substantially similar to the original pleading, was filed on September 29, 2008 (the “Amended Complaint”). On October 13, 2008, a complaint was filed by another purported holder of Pihana common stock, naming the same defendants and asserting substantially similar allegations as the August 22, 2008 and September 29, 2008 pleadings. On December 12, 2008, the court entered a stipulated order, which consolidated the two actions under one case number and set January 22, 2009 as the last day for Defendants to move to dismiss or otherwise respond to the Amended Complaint, the operative complaint in this case. On January 22, 2009, motions to dismiss the Amended 26 Table of Contents Complaint were filed by Equinix and other Defendants. The court has not yet ruled on any of the motions to dismiss. We believe that plaintiffs’ claims and alleged damages are without merit and we intend to defend the litigation vigorously. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcomes of the above matters or whether such outcomes would have a material impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. We continue to participate in the defense of the above matters, which may increase our expenses and divert management’s attention and resources. In addition, we may, in the future, be subject to other litigation. For example, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. Any adverse outcome in litigation could seriously harm our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights. We cannot assure that the steps taken by us to protect our intellectual property rights will be adequate to deter misappropriation of proprietary information or that we will be able to detect unauthorized use and take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. We also are subject to the risk of litigation alleging infringement of third-party intellectual property rights. Any such claims could require us to spend significant sums in litigation, pay damages, develop non-infringing intellectual property, or acquire licenses to the intellectual property that is the subject of the alleged infringement. If the use of the Internet does not continue to grow, our revenues may not grow. Acceptance and use of the Internet may not continue to develop at historical rates. Demand for Internet services and products are subject to a high level of uncertainty and are subject to significant pricing pressure. As a result, we cannot be certain that a viable market for our IBX centers will be sustained. If the market for our IBX centers grows more slowly than we currently anticipate, our revenues may not grow and our operating results could suffer. Government regulation may adversely affect the use of the Internet and our business. Various laws and governmental regulations governing Internet related services, related communications services and information technologies and electronic commerce remain largely unsettled, even in areas where there has been some legislative action. This is true both in the U.S. and the various foreign countries in which we operate. It may take years to determine whether and how existing laws, such as those governing intellectual property, privacy, libel, telecommunications services and taxation, apply to the Internet and to related services such as ours. We have limited experience with such international regulatory issues and substantial resources may be required to comply with regulations or bring any non-compliant business practices into compliance with such regulations. In addition, the development of the market for online commerce and the displacement of traditional telephony service by the Internet and related communications services may prompt an increased call for more stringent consumer protection laws or other regulation both in the U.S. and abroad that may impose additional burdens on companies conducting business online and their service providers. The compliance with, adoption or modification of, laws or regulations relating to the Internet, or interpretations of existing laws, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Industry consolidation may have a negative impact on our business model. The telecommunications industry is currently undergoing consolidation. As customers combine businesses, they may require less colocation space, and there may be fewer networks available to choose from. Given the competitive and evolving nature of this industry, further consolidation of our customers and/or our competitors 27 Table of Contents may present a risk to our network-neutral business model and have a negative impact on our revenues. In addition, increased utilization levels industry-wide could lead to a reduced amount of attractive expansion opportunities available to us. Terrorist activity throughout the world and military action to counter terrorism could adversely impact our business. The September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in the U.S., the ensuing declaration of war on terrorism and the continued threat of terrorist activity and other acts of war or hostility contribute to a climate of political and economic uncertainty. Due to existing or developing circumstances, we may need to incur additional costs in the future to provide enhanced security, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. These circumstances may also adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers, our ability to raise capital and the operation and maintenance of our IBX centers. We may not have adequate property and liability insurance to cover catastrophic events or attacks. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There is no disclosure to report pursuant to Item 1B. 