Item 1A. Risk Factors In evaluating our company, the factors described below should be considered carefully. The occurrence of one or more of these events could significantly and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We have a history of losses and may not be profitable in the future. We have a history of losses and cannot assure you that we will achieve sustained profitability in the future. We incurred losses from continuing operations of $27.6 million, $62.2 million and $54.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2009, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, we had net income of $30.3 million and $15.6 million, respectively. If we cannot regain our profitability, the value of our enterprise may decline. We may experience fluctuations in operating results, and because many of our operating costs are fixed, even small revenue shortfalls or increased expenses can have a disproportionate effect on operating results. Our operating results may vary significantly for a variety of reasons, including: • overall economic conditions in the electronics industry and global economy; • pricing pressures; • timing of orders from and shipments to major customers; • our capacity relative to the volume of orders; • expenditures in anticipation of future sales; • expenditures or write-offs related to acquisitions; 13 Table of Contents • expenditures or write-offs related to restructuring activities; • start-up expenses relating to new manufacturing facilities; or • variations in product mix. We are dependent upon the electronics industry, which is highly cyclical, suffers significant downturns in demand and faces pricing and profitability pressures, which may result in excess manufacturing capacity and increased price competition. The electronics industry, on which a substantial portion of our business depends, is cyclical and subject to significant downturns characterized by diminished product demand, rapid declines in average selling prices and over-capacity. This industry has experienced periods characterized by relatively low demand and price depression and is likely to experience recessionary periods in the future. Economic conditions affecting the electronics industry in general or specific customers in particular, have adversely affected our results of operations in the past and may do so in the future. The global economy has in the past been, and may in the future be, impacted by global recessionary conditions, volatile fuel prices, and changing political and economic landscapes. These factors and others may lead to low consumer confidence levels, resulting in a downturn in demand for products incorporating PCBs and E-M Solutions. In addition, the electronics industry is characterized by intense competition, rapid technological change, relatively short product life cycles and pricing and profitability pressures. These factors adversely affect our customers and we suffer similar effects. Our customers are primarily high-technology equipment manufacturers in the automotive, communications and networking, computing and peripherals, test, industrial and medical markets of the electronics industry. Due to the uncertainty in the markets served by most of our customers, we cannot accurately predict our future financial results or accurately anticipate future orders. At any time, our customers can discontinue or modify products containing components we manufacture, exert pricing pressure on us, renegotiate the terms of our arrangements with them, adjust the timing of orders and shipments or affect our mix of consolidated net sales, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. During periods of excess global PCB manufacturing capacity, our gross margins may fall and/or we may have to incur restructuring charges if we choose to reduce the capacity of or close any of our facilities. When we experience excess capacity, our sales revenues may not fully cover our fixed overhead expenses, and our gross margins will fall. If we conclude we have significant, long-term excess capacity, we may decide to permanently close or scale down our facilities and lay off some of our employees. Closures or lay-offs could result in our recording restructuring charges such as severance, other exit costs and asset impairments. The PCB and electronic manufacturing services (“EMS”) industries are highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete effectively in one or both of them. The PCB industry is highly competitive, with multiple global competitors and hundreds of regional and local manufacturers. The EMS industry is also highly competitive, with competitors on the global, regional and local levels and relatively low barriers to entry. In both of these industries, we could experience increased future competition resulting in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share. Any of these could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, some of our principal competitors may be less leveraged, may have greater access to financial or other resources, may have lower cost operations and may be better able to withstand adverse market conditions. 14 Table of Contents The PCB and EMS industries are subject to rapid technological change; our failure to respond timely or adequately to such changes may render our existing technology less competitive or obsolete, and our operating results may suffer. The market for our products and services is characterized by rapidly changing product platforms based on technology and continuing process development. The success of our business will depend, in large part, upon our ability to maintain and enhance our technological capabilities, develop and market products and services that meet changing customer needs and successfully anticipate or respond to technological product platform changes on a cost-effective and timely basis. There can be no assurance that we will effectively respond to the technological product requirements of the changing market, including having sufficient cash flow to make additional capital expenditures that may be required as a result of those changes. To the extent we are unable to respond to such technological product requirements, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may be adversely affected. If we do not align manufacturing capacity with customer demand, we could experience difficulties meeting our customers’ expectations or, conversely, incur excess costs to maintain unneeded capacity. If we fail to build or maintain sufficient manufacturing infrastructure, or if we fail to recruit, train and retain sufficient staff to meet customer demand, we may experience extended lead times, leading to the loss of customer orders. Conversely, if we increase manufacturing capacity and order levels do not remain stable or increase, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. Our products and related manufacturing processes are often highly complex and therefore our products may at times contain manufacturing defects, which may subject us to product liability and warranty claims. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to warranty and product liability claims in the event that our products, particularly those supplied to the automotive and aerospace industries, fail to perform as expected or such failure results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury and/or property damage. If we were to manufacture and deliver products to our customers that contain defects, whether caused by a design, manufacturing or component failure, or by deficiencies in the manufacturing processes, it may result in delayed shipments to customers and reduced or cancelled customer orders. In addition, if any of our products are or are alleged to be defective, we may be required to participate in a recall of such products. As suppliers become more integral to the vehicle design process and assume more of the vehicle assembly functions, vehicle manufacturers are increasingly looking to their suppliers for contributions when faced with product liability claims or recalls. In addition, vehicle manufacturers, which have traditionally borne the costs associated with warranty programs offered on their vehicles, are increasingly requiring suppliers to guarantee or warrant their products and may seek to hold us responsible for some or all of the costs related to the repair and replacement of parts supplied by us to the vehicle manufacturer. A successful warranty or product liability claim against us in excess of our established warranty and legal reserves or available insurance coverage, or a requirement that we participate in a product recall may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows and may harm our business reputation, which could lead to customer cancellations or non-renewals. We may be required to recognize additional impairment charges. Pursuant to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”), we are required to make periodic assessments of goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets to determine if they are impaired. We incurred impairment charges to write down the value of property, plant and equipment of $1.7 million and $1.6 million in 2012 and 2009, respectively, as a result of various restructuring activities and other events. Disruptions to our business, end-market conditions, protracted economic weakness, unexpected significant declines in operating results of reporting units, divestitures and enterprise value declines may result in impairment charges to goodwill and other asset impairments. Future impairment charges could substantially affect our reported earnings in the periods of such charges. If we are not able to renew leases of our manufacturing facilities, our operations could be interrupted and our assets could become impaired. We lease several of our principal manufacturing facilities from third parties under operating leases with remaining lease terms, as of December 31, 2013, ranging from one to five years. During 2012 we closed our manufacturing facility in Huizhou, China because the area where this facility was located was redeveloped away from industrial use, and we were unable to renew our lease. If we are not able to renew facility leases under commercially acceptable terms, our operations at those facilities could be interrupted, our assets could become impaired and we may incur significant expense to relocate those operations. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 15 Table of Contents We may have exposure to income tax rate fluctuations as well as to additional tax liabilities, which could impact our financial position. As a corporation with a presence both abroad and in the United States, we are subject to taxes in various jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate is subject to fluctuation as the income tax rates for each year are a function of the following factors, among others: • the effects of a mix of profits or losses earned in numerous tax jurisdictions with a broad range of income tax rates; • our ability to utilize net operating losses; • our ability to allocate expenses of our U.S. corporate headquarters to overseas subsidiaries; • changes in contingencies related to taxes, • interest or penalties resulting from tax audits; and • changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such laws. Changes in the mix of these items and other items may cause our effective tax rate to fluctuate between periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Certain of our Chinese subsidiaries have operated or continue to operate under tax incentive programs. Any tax incentives we receive could be challenged, modified or even eliminated by taxing authorities or changes in law. These tax incentive programs must be periodically renewed, and we cannot be assured that we would continue to qualify. In addition, the tax laws and rates in certain jurisdictions in which we operate can change with little or no notice, and any such change may apply retroactively. The effect of changes in Chinese tax laws on our overall tax rate will be affected by, among other things, our income, the manner in which China interprets, implements and applies the new tax provisions and our ability to qualify for any exceptions or new incentives. The expiration of tax incentive programs or new tax legislation could increase our effective tax rate, thereby having a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We are also subject to non-income taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in various jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, we cannot provide assurance that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our income tax provisions and accruals. Uncertainty and adverse changes in the economy and financial markets could have an adverse impact on our business and operating results. Uncertainty or adverse changes in the economy could lead to a decline in demand for the end products manufactured by our customers, which, in turn, could result in a decline in the demand for our products and pressure to reduce our prices. As a result of the global economic downturns that began in 2008 and 2001, many businesses experienced weaker demand for their products and services and, therefore, took a more conservative stance in ordering component inventory. These downturns led to lower sales levels and caused us to close plants and reduce the size of our work force. Any future decrease in demand for our products could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Uncertainty and adverse changes in the economy could also increase the cost and decrease the availability of potential sources of financing which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, instability in the financial markets during economic downturns could lead to the consolidation, restructuring and closure of financial institutions. Should any of the financial institutions who maintain our cash deposits or who are a party to our credit facilities become unable to repay our deposits or honor their commitments under our credit facilities, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 16 Table of Contents We are subject to environmental laws and regulations that expose us to potential financial liability. Our operations are regulated under a number of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the discharge of hazardous materials into the air, soil and water, the handling, use, generation, storage and disposal of, or exposure to, hazardous materials and wastes, the investigation and remediation of contamination and occupational health and safety. Violations of these laws and regulations can lead to material liabilities, fines, costs or penalties. Compliance with these laws and regulations is a major consideration in the fabrication of PCBs because metals and other hazardous materials are used in the manufacturing process. In addition, it is possible that in the future, new or more stringent requirements could be imposed. Various federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations impose liability, regardless of fault, on current or previous real property owners or operators for the costs of investigating, cleaning up or removing contamination caused by hazardous or toxic substances at or from the property. In addition, because we are a generator of hazardous wastes, we, along with any other person who arranges for the disposal of those wastes, may be subject to potential financial exposure for costs associated with the investigation and remediation of sites at which such hazardous waste has been disposed, if those sites become contaminated. Liability may be imposed without regard to legality of the original actions and without regard to whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances, and we could be responsible for payment of the full amount of the liability, whether or not any other responsible party is also liable. Increased regulation associated with climate change and greenhouse gas emissions could impose significant additional costs on operations. U.S. federal and state governments and various governmental agencies have adopted or are contemplating statutory and regulatory changes in response to the potential impacts of climate change and emissions of greenhouse gases. International treaties or agreements may also result in increasing regulation of climate change and greenhouse gas emissions, including the introduction of greenhouse gas emissions trading mechanisms. Any such law or regulation regarding climate change and greenhouse gas emissions could impose significant costs on our operations and on the operations of our customers and suppliers, including increased energy, capital equipment, environmental monitoring, reporting and other compliance costs. The potential costs of “allowances,” “offsets” or “credits” that may be part of potential cap-and-trade programs or similar proposed regulatory measures are still uncertain. Any adopted future climate change and greenhouse gas laws or regulations could negatively impact our ability, and that of our customers and suppliers, to compete with companies situated in areas not subject to such laws or regulations. These statutory and regulatory initiatives, if enacted, may impact our operations directly or indirectly through our suppliers or customers. Until the timing, scope and extent of any future law or regulation becomes known, we cannot predict the effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act relating to “Conflict Minerals” may increase our costs and lead to reputational challenges. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act contains provisions to improve transparency and accountability concerning the supply of certain minerals originating from the Democratic Republic of Congo (the “DRC”) and adjoining countries that are believed to be benefiting armed groups. As a result, the SEC has adopted due diligence, disclosure and reporting requirements for companies which manufacture products that include components containing such minerals, regardless of whether the minerals are actually mined in the DRC or adjoining countries. Our first report under these rules will be due by May 31, 2014. Such regulations could decrease the availability and increase the prices of components used in our customers’ products, particularly if we choose (or are required by our customers) to source such components from different suppliers than we use now. In addition, as our supply chain is complex and the method of complying with these SEC rules is unclear, we expect that the compliance process will be both time-consuming and costly. We may face reputational challenges with our customers and other stakeholders if we are unable to timely verify the origins of minerals contained in the components included in our customers’ products, or if our due diligence process reveals that materials we source originate in the DRC or adjoining countries and benefit armed groups. There may be shortages of, or price fluctuations with respect to, raw materials or components, which would cause us to curtail our manufacturing or incur higher than expected costs. We purchase the raw materials and components we use in producing our products and providing our services, and bear the risk of potential raw material or component price fluctuations. In addition, shortages of raw materials such as gold and copper clad laminates, the principal raw materials used in our PCB operations, have occurred in the past and may occur in the future. Raw material or component shortages or price fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, if we experience a shortage of materials or components, we may not be able to produce products for our customers in a timely fashion. 17 Table of Contents Energy and fuel oil prices may fluctuate, which would increase our cost to manufacture goods. Our manufacturing operations consume a significant amount of energy to power our factories. We purchase electricity from local utilities and we generate a portion of our own electricity in certain of our manufacturing facilities using diesel generators. Prices for electricity and diesel fuel have risen substantially in recent years. Future price increases for electricity and diesel fuel would increase our cost and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We may not have sufficient insurance coverage for certain of the risks and liabilities we assume in connection with the products and services we provide to customers, which could leave us responsible for certain costs and damages incurred by customers. We carry various forms of business and liability insurance, including commercial general liability insurance, which we believe are reasonable and customary for similarly situated companies in our industry. However, we do not have insurance coverage for all of the risks and liabilities we assume in connection with the products and services we provide to customers, such as potential warranty, product liability and product recall claims. As a result, such liability claims may not be covered or only be partially covered under our insurance policies. We continue to monitor the insurance marketplace to evaluate the availability of and need to obtain additional insurance coverage in the future. However, should we sustain a significant uncovered loss, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Damage to our manufacturing facilities or information systems due to fire, natural disaster or other events could harm our financial results and our losses from such events may not be fully covered by insurance. We have manufacturing, engineering and customer service centers in various countries around the world. The destruction or closure of any of our facilities for a significant period of time as a result of fire, explosion, act of war or terrorism, blizzard, flood, tornado, earthquake, lightning or other natural disaster could harm us financially, increasing our cost of doing business and limiting our ability to deliver our products and services on a timely basis. For example, in September 2012, our manufacturing facility in Guangzhou, China suffered a fire which resulted in the loss of inventory and property, plant and equipment and temporarily reduced a portion of our manufacturing capacity which created manufacturing inefficiencies and caused some customers to cancel orders. In June 2010, our manufacturing facility in Zhongshan, China suffered a fire in an electrical distribution hub, causing a cessation of production activities for a period of approximately one week. While we maintain insurance coverage to protect us from property damage and business interruption losses, certain coverage is subject to deductibles and other exclusions and may not cover all of the losses incurred. We have historically had difficulties collecting on our claims under certain insurance policies and have experienced delays of more than one year to receive payment of certain claims. In addition, our history of insurance claims may make it difficult to obtain insurance coverage in the future at commercially reasonable rates if at all. If we were to suffer uninsured losses, were not able to collect on insured losses or were not able to obtain adequate insurance coverage in the future, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, we rely heavily upon information technology systems and high-technology equipment in our manufacturing processes and the management of our business. We have developed disaster recovery plans; however, disruption of these technologies as a result of natural disaster or other events could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Losses from the 2012 fire at our Guangzhou, China manufacturing facility may not be fully covered by insurance. On September 5, 2012, we experienced a fire on the campus of our PCB manufacturing facility in Guangzhou, China which resulted in i) the loss of inventory, ii) the loss of property, plant and equipment, iii) losses due to manufacturing inefficiencies and iv) losses in the business in general. We maintain insurance coverage for property and business interruption losses caused by fire, which is subject to certain deductibles. 18 Table of Contents During the year ended December 31, 2013, we received an initial payment of $1.6 million from our insurance carrier as a partial reimbursement of our property claim. As of the date of this Report, we continue to actively pursue collection of our claims through negotiation with our insurance carrier. However, we continue to maintain our rights to pursue our claims in litigation should such negotiations not produce a satisfactory result. We may file litigation against our insurance carrier in the near future in order to preserve our rights and maximize the potential recovery of losses suffered from the fire. We may not prevail in this matter or recover the amounts we are seeking from the insurer. Further, any insurance proceeds may not be received on a timely basis. If we cannot collect on our claims or if our claims are continually delayed, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We could be subject to litigation in the course of our operations that could adversely affect our operating results. We are subject to various claims with respect to such matters as product liability, product development and other actions arising in the normal course of business. Item 3 of Part I of this Report discusses any material pending legal proceedings to which we are a party. Through any of these matters, or if we became the subject of future material legal proceedings, our operating results may be affected by the outcome of such proceedings and other contingencies that cannot be predicted with certainty. When appropriate, and as required by U.S. GAAP, we estimate material loss contingencies and establish reserves based on our assessment of contingencies where liability is deemed probable and reasonably estimable in light of the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time. Subsequent developments in legal proceedings may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded as a liability or as a reserve against assets in our consolidated financial statements and could have a material adverse effect on business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows in the period in which a liability would be recognized and the period in which damages would be paid, respectively. Although claims have been infrequent in the past, we may become subject to claims by our customers or end-users of our products alleging that we were negligent in our production or have infringed on intellectual property of another. Several of our competitors hold patents covering a variety of technologies, applications and methods of use similar to some of those used in our products. From time to time, we and our customers have received correspondence from our competitors claiming that some of our products, as used by our customers, may be infringing one or more of these patents. Competitors or others have in the past, and may in the future, assert infringement claims against us or our customers with respect to current or future products or uses, and these assertions may result in costly litigation or require us to obtain a license to use intellectual property of others. If claims of infringement are asserted against our customers, those customers may seek indemnification from us for damages or expenses they incur. If we became subject to infringement claims, we would evaluate our position and consider the available alternatives, which may include seeking licenses to use the technology in question or defending our position. These licenses, however, may not be available on satisfactory terms or at all. If we are not able to negotiate the necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms or successfully defend our position, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. If we lose key management, operations, engineering or sales and marketing personnel, or if we experience high employee turnover, we could experience reduced sales, delayed product development and diversion of management resources. Our success depends largely on the continued contributions of our key management, administration, operations, engineering and sales and marketing personnel, many of whom would be difficult to replace. With the exception of certain of our executive officers, we generally do not have employment or non-compete agreements with our key personnel. If one or more members of our senior management or key professionals were to resign, the loss of personnel could result in loss of sales, delays in new product development and diversion of management resources, which would have a negative effect on our business. We do not maintain “key man” insurance policies on any of our personnel. In addition, we rely on the collective experience of our employees, particularly in the manufacturing process, to ensure we continuously evaluate and adopt new technologies and remain competitive. Although we are not generally dependent on any one employee or a small number of employees involved in our manufacturing process, we have in the past experienced periods of high employee turnover and may in the future experience significantly high employee turnover at our facilities in China. If we are not able to replace departing employees with new employees who have comparable skills and capabilities, our operations could suffer as we may be unable to keep up with innovations in the industry or the demands of our customers, and may not be able to compete effectively. 19 Table of Contents Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which could cause our business and reputation to suffer. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data in our data centers and on our networks, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners, and personally identifiable information of our employees. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, disrupt our operations, damage our reputation, and cause a loss of confidence in our products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Risks Related to Our Customers and Suppliers A significant portion of our net sales is based on transactions with our largest customers; if we lose any of these customers, our sales could decline significantly. For the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, sales to our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 40.6%, 49.0% and 58.8% of our consolidated net sales, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, one customer, Robert Bosch GmbH, accounted for over 10.0% of our consolidated net sales, with sales representing 12.6%, 13.9% and 14.5% of our net sales for those years, respectively. Although we cannot assure you that our principal customers will continue to purchase our products at past levels, we expect a significant portion of our net sales will continue to be concentrated within a small number of customers. The loss of, or significant curtailment of purchases by, any of our principal customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We generally do not obtain long-term volume purchase commitments from customers and therefore, cancellations, reductions in production quantities and delays in production by our customers could adversely affect our business. For many of our customers we do not have firm long-term purchase commitments, but rather conduct business on a purchase order basis. Customers may cancel their orders, reduce production quantities or delay production at any time for a number of reasons. Many of our customers have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, significant decreases in demand for their products and services. Uncertain economic conditions in the global economy and the markets in which our customers operate have in the past prompted some of our customers to cancel orders, delay the delivery of our products and place purchase orders for fewer products than they had forecasted to us. Even when our customers are contractually obligated to purchase products, we may be unable or, for other business reasons, choose not to enforce our contractual rights. Cancellations, reductions or delays of orders by customers could: • adversely affect our operating results by reducing the volume of products that we manufacture for our customers; • delay or eliminate recoupment of our expenditures for inventory purchased to fulfill customer orders; or • lower our asset utilization, which would result in lower gross margins. 20 Table of Contents Increasingly, our larger customers are requesting that we enter into supply agreements with them that have restrictive terms and conditions. These agreements typically include provisions that increase our financial exposure, which could result in significant costs to us. Increasingly, our larger customers are requesting that we enter into supply agreements with them. These agreements typically include provisions that generally serve to fix our selling price over some period of time or to increase our exposure for product liability and warranty claims—as compared to our standard terms and conditions—which could result in higher costs to us as a result of such claims. In addition, these agreements typically contain provisions that seek to limit our operational and pricing flexibility and extend payment terms, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. If we are unable to provide our customers with high-end technology, high quality products, and responsive service, or if we are unable to deliver our products to our customers in a timely manner, our results of operations and financial condition may suffer. In order to maintain our existing customer base and obtain business from new customers, we must constantly demonstrate our ability to produce our products at the level of technology, quality, responsiveness of service, timeliness of delivery, and at prices that our customers require. If our products are of substandard quality, if they are not delivered on time, if we are not responsive to our customers’ demands, or if we cannot meet our customers’ technological requirements, our reputation as a reliable supplier could be damaged. If we are unable to meet these product and service standards, we may be unable to obtain new contracts or keep our existing customers, and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our exposure to the credit risk of our customers and suppliers may adversely affect our business. We sell our products to customers that have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, financial difficulties. If our customers experience financial difficulties, we could have difficulty recovering amounts owed from these customers. While we perform credit evaluations and adjust credit limits based upon each customer’s payment history and credit worthiness, such programs may not be effective in reducing our exposure to credit risk. We evaluate the collectability of accounts receivable, and based on this evaluation make adjustments to the allowance for doubtful accounts for expected losses. Actual bad debt write-offs may differ from our estimates, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our suppliers may also experience financial difficulties, which could result in our having difficulty sourcing the materials and components we use in producing our products and providing our services. If we encounter such difficulties, we may not be able to produce our products for customers in a timely fashion, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We rely on the automotive industry for a significant portion of sales. A significant portion of our sales are to customers within the automotive industry. For the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, sales to customers in the automotive industry represented approximately 30.2%, 32.5% and 39.0% of our net sales, respectively. If there was a destabilization of the automotive industry or a market shift away from our automotive customers, it may have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Failure to meet the quality control standards of our automotive customers may cause us to lose existing, or prevent us from gaining new, automotive customers. For safety reasons, our automotive customers have strict quality standards that generally exceed the quality requirements of our other customers. Because a significant portion of our PCB products are sold to customers in the automotive industry, if those products do not meet these quality standards, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. These automotive customers may require long periods of time to evaluate whether our manufacturing processes and facilities meet their quality standards. If we were to lose automotive customers due to quality control issues, we might not be able to regain those customers or gain new automotive customers for long periods of time, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 21 Table of Contents We rely on the telecommunications industry for a significant portion of sales. Accordingly, the economic volatility in this industry has had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on our ability to forecast demand and production and to meet desired sales levels. A large percentage of our business is conducted with customers who are in the telecommunications industry. For the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, sales to customers in the telecommunications industry represented approximately 17.2%, 15.5% and 17.3% of our net sales, respectively. This industry is characterized by intense competition, relatively short product life cycles and significant fluctuations in product demand. This industry is heavily dependent on the end markets it serves and therefore can be affected by the demand patterns of those markets. If the volatility in this industry continues, it would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. A significant portion of our business is derived from products and services ultimately sold to the U.S. government by our customers. Changes affecting the government’s capacity to do business with us or our customers or the effects of competition in the defense industry could have a material adverse effect on our business. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from products and services ultimately sold to the U.S. government and is therefore affected by, among other things, the federal budget process. We are a supplier, primarily as a subcontractor, to the U.S. government and its agencies as well as to foreign governments and agencies. Government contracts and subcontracts are subject to political and budgetary constraints and processes, changes in short-range and long-range strategic plans, the timing of contract awards, and in the case of contracts with the U.S. government, the congressional budget authorization and appropriation processes. Changes affecting the federal government could also increase competition among suppliers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, the government is able to terminate contracts for convenience and may suspend or debar contractors in the event of certain violations of legal and regulatory requirements. Further, defense expedite (DX) orders from the U.S. government, which by law receive priority, can interrupt scheduled shipments to our other customers. The termination or failure to fund one or more significant contracts by the U.S. government could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. A significant portion of our business is derived from products and services sold to customers in the defense industry. Changes in export control or other federal regulations could result in increased competition from offshore competitors which could have a material adverse effect on our business. A significant portion of our net sales are derived from products and services ultimately sold to customers in the defense industry. Many of these products are currently subject to export controls and other regulatory requirements such as United States Munitions List, that limit the ability of overseas competitors to manufacture such products. If these regulations or others are changed in a manner that reduces restrictions on certain products being manufactured overseas, we would face increased competition from overseas manufacturers. Such increased competition could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Risks Related to Doing Business in China and Other International Locations A significant portion of our manufacturing activities are conducted in foreign countries, exposing us to additional risks that may not exist in the United States. International manufacturing operations represent a majority of our business. Sales outside the United States represent a majority of our net sales, and we expect net sales outside the United States to continue to represent a significant portion of our total net sales. Outside of the United States, we operate manufacturing facilities in China, Mexico and Canada. Our international manufacturing operations are subject to a variety of potential risks, including: • inflation or changes in political and economic conditions; • unstable regulatory environments; • changes in import and export duties; • domestic and foreign customs and tariffs; • potentially adverse tax consequences; 22 Table of Contents • trade restrictions; • restrictions on the transfer of funds into or out of a country; • changes in labor laws, including minimum wage; • labor unrest; • logistical and communications challenges; • difficulties associated with managing a large organization spread throughout various countries; • differing protection of intellectual property and trade secrets; or • burdensome taxes and other restraints. Any of these factors may have an adverse effect on our international operations or on the ability of our international operations to repatriate earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. If manufacturing technical capability and quality continue to improve in Asia and other foreign countries where production costs are lower, our U.S. operations may become less competitive, lose market share, incur lower cost absorption, and experience lower gross margins and impairment of assets. To the extent PCB manufacturers in Asia are able to more effectively compete with products manufactured in the United States, our facilities in the United States may not be able to compete as effectively and parts of our U.S. operations may not remain viable. PCB manufacturers in Asia and other geographies often have significantly lower production costs than our U.S. operations and may even have cost advantages over our own operations in Asia. Production capability improvements by foreign competitors and domestic competitors with foreign operations may play an increasing role in the PCB markets in which we compete, which may adversely affect our revenues and profitability. While PCB manufacturers in these locations have historically competed primarily in markets for less technologically advanced products, some, including ourselves, have expanded their manufacturing capabilities to produce higher layer count, higher technology PCBs and could compete more directly with our North American and Asia operations. Electrical power shortages in certain areas of China have, in the past, caused the government to impose power rationing programs, and additional power rationings in the future could adversely affect our operations in China. In recent years, the Chinese government has periodically rationed electrical power in certain areas of the country which has led to unscheduled production interruptions in some of our manufacturing facilities. We may encounter difficulties in the future with obtaining power or other key services due to infrastructure weaknesses and constraints in China that may impair our ability to compete effectively as well as materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We are subject to currency fluctuations, which may affect our cost of goods sold and operating margins. A significant portion of our costs, including payroll and rent, are denominated in foreign currencies, particularly the Chinese Renminbi (“RMB”). Changes in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar will affect our cost of goods sold and operating margins and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Material increases in labor costs in China could have an adverse impact on our business and operating results. We operate a number of manufacturing facilities in China. In past years, we have experienced increases in labor costs in our Chinese facilities. We expect increases in the cost of labor in our manufacturing facilities in China will continue to occur in the future. To the extent we are unable to pass on increases in labor costs to our customers by increasing the prices for our products and services, minimum wage increases or increases in other labor costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 23 Table of Contents We lease land for all of our owned and leased Chinese manufacturing facilities from the Chinese government under land use rights agreements that may be terminated by the Chinese government. We lease the land where our Chinese manufacturing facilities are located from the Chinese government through land use rights agreements. Although we believe our relationship with the Chinese government is sound, if the Chinese government decided to terminate our land use rights agreements, our assets could become impaired, and our ability to meet our customers’ orders could be impacted. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We export products from the United States to other countries. If we fail to comply with export laws, we could be subject to additional taxes, duties, fines and other punitive actions. Exports from the United States are regulated by various government agencies, including the U.S. Department of Commerce and the U.S. Department of State. Failure to comply with these regulations can result in significant fines and penalties. Additionally, violations of these laws can result in punitive penalties, which could restrict or prohibit us from exporting certain products, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. As a U.S. corporation with international operations, we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”). A determination that we violated this act may adversely affect our business. As a U.S. corporation, we are subject to the regulations imposed by the FCPA, which generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business. Any determination that we have violated the FCPA could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Risks Related to Our Capital Structure Our wholly owned subsidiary, Viasystems, Inc., is a holding company with no operations of its own and depends on its subsidiaries for cash. Our operations are conducted through our wholly owned subsidiary, Viasystems, Inc., which is a holding company with no operations of its own, and none of its subsidiaries are obligated to make funds available to Viasystems, Inc. Accordingly, Viasystems, Inc.’s ability to service its indebtedness is dependent on the distribution of funds from its subsidiaries. If Viasystems, Inc. is unable to transfer cash generated by its subsidiaries, its ability to make payments on its indebtedness may be impaired. Viasystems, Inc.’s failure to service its debt may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We are influenced by our significant stockholders, whose interests may be different than our other stockholders. As of December 31, 2013, affiliates of HM Capital Partners and affiliates of Black Diamond Capital Management, L.L.C. owned approximately 48.1% and 19.2% of our outstanding common stock, respectively. Accordingly, these entities, together or with other partners, may effectively control the election of a majority of our board of directors and the approval or disapproval of certain other matters requiring stockholder approval and, as a result, have significant influence over the direction of our management and policies. The interests of any large stockholder or controlling group may not be the same as the interests of our other stockholders. In addition, owners of these entities are in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us or otherwise have business objectives that are not aligned with our business objectives. Some provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may deter third parties from acquiring us and diminish the value of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws provide for, among other things: • restrictions on the ability of our stockholders to call a special meeting and the business that can be conducted at such a meeting; 24 Table of Contents • our ability to issue preferred stock with terms that the board of directors may determine, without stockholder approval; • a prohibition of action by written consent unless such action is approved by all stockholders; • the absence of cumulative voting in the election of directors; and • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations. These provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change of control of our company that is in the best interest of our minority stockholders. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging future takeover attempts. Investors may experience dilution of their ownership interests due to the future issuance of additional shares of our capital stock, which could have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock. We may in the future issue additional shares of our common stock which could result in the dilution of the ownership interests of our stockholders. As of December 31, 2013, we have outstanding approximately 20.8 million shares of common stock, and no shares of preferred stock. We are authorized to issue 100 million shares of common stock and 25 million shares of preferred stock with such designations, preferences and rights as determined by our board of directors. We filed a shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission in 2011, which authorizes us to sell up to $150 million of equity or other securities described in the registration statement in one or more offerings. The potential issuance of such additional shares of common stock may create downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. We may also issue additional shares of our common stock in connection with the hiring of personnel, future acquisitions, future issuances of our securities for capital raising purposes or for other business purposes. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. In addition, pursuant to our 2010 Equity Incentive Plan, as of December 31, 2013, we are authorized to grant options and other stock awards representing up to 920,171 shares to our officers, employees, directors and consultants. Our stockholders will incur dilution upon exercise or issuance of any options or other stock awards. In addition, if we raise additional funds by issuing additional common stock, or securities convertible into, exchangeable or exercisable for common stock, or if we use our securities as consideration for future acquisitions or investments, further dilution to our existing stockholders will result, and new investors could have rights superior to existing stockholders. We have a substantial amount of debt and may be unable to service or refinance this debt, which could have a material adverse effect on our business in the future, and may place us at a competitive disadvantage in our industry. As of December 31, 2013, our total outstanding indebtedness was approximately $572.9 million. Our net interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, was approximately $44.8 million, $42.2 million and $28.9 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2013, our total consolidated stockholders’ equity was approximately $212.6 million. This high level of debt could have negative consequences. For example, it could: • result in our inability to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our credit facilities; • increase our vulnerability to adverse industry and general economic conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make scheduled principal payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for working capital, capital investments and other business activities; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital investments, acquisitions and other business activities; • limit our ability to refinance our indebtedness on terms that are commercially reasonable, or at all; • expose us to the risk of interest rate fluctuations to the extent we pay interest at variable rates on the debt; • limit our flexibility to plan for, and react to, changes in our business and industry; or • place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to our less leveraged competitors. 25 Table of Contents Servicing our debt requires a significant amount of cash and our ability to generate cash may be affected by factors beyond our control. Our business may not generate cash flow in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay the principal of, or interest on, our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs, including working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances and other general corporate requirements. Our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that: • our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations; • we will realize the cost savings, revenue growth and operating improvements related to the execution of our long-term strategic plan; or • future sources of funding will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs. If we cannot fund our liquidity needs, we will have to take actions such as: reducing or delaying capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances; selling assets; restructuring or refinancing our debt; or seeking additional equity capital. We cannot assure you that any of these remedies could, if necessary, be affected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or that they would permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Our $75 million senior secured revolving credit facility (the “Senior Secured 2010 Credit Facility”) and the indenture governing the outstanding $550.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 7.875% Senior Secured Notes due 2019 (the “2019 Notes”) limit the use of the proceeds from any disposition of assets and, as a result, we may not be allowed to use the proceeds from such dispositions to satisfy all current debt service obligations. In addition, if we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage, including the risk that we would be unable to service our debt or generate enough cash flow to fund our liquidity needs, could intensify. Restrictive covenants in the indenture governing the 2019 Notes and the agreements governing our other indebtedness will restrict our ability to operate our business. The indentures or other agreements governing the 2019 Notes, the Senior Secured 2010 Credit Facility and certain mortgage loans contain, and agreements governing indebtedness we may incur in the future may contain, covenants that restrict our ability to, among other things, incur additional debt, pay dividends, make investments, enter into transactions with affiliates, merge or consolidate with other entities or sell all or substantially all of our assets. Additionally, the agreement governing the Senior Secured 2010 Credit Facility requires us to maintain certain financial ratios. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default thereunder, which could allow the lenders or the noteholders to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder immediately due and payable. If we are unable to repay outstanding borrowings when due, the lenders under the Senior Secured 2010 Credit Facility, the collateral trustee under the indenture governing the 2019 Notes and related agreements and our mortgage lenders have the right to proceed against the collateral granted to them, including certain equity interests. We may also be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise because of the limitations imposed on us by the restrictive covenants under our indebtedness. Downgrading of our debt ratings would adversely affect us. Our debt securities and corporate credit profile are monitored and rated by Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. (“Moodys”) and Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services, a division of the McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., (“S&P”). During 2013, the ratings we received from Moodys and S&P remained unchanged. Any downgrading by Moodys or S&P could make it more difficult for us to obtain new financing if we had an immediate need to increase our liquidity. 26 Table of Contents Failure to maintain good relations with the noncontrolling interest holder of a majority-owned subsidiary in China could materially adversely affect our ability to manage that operation. A noncontrolling interest holder owns a 5% interest in our subsidiary that operates our Huiyang, China facility. The noncontrolling interest holder is affiliated with the Chinese government and has close ties to local economic development and other Chinese government agencies. The noncontrolling interest holder has certain rights to be consulted and to consent to certain operating and investment matters concerning the Huiyang facility and the board of directors of our subsidiary that operates the Huiyang facility. Failure to maintain good relations with the noncontrolling interest holder could materially adversely affect our ability to manage the operations of the plant. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 27 Table of Contents 