ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive food industry may affect our operational performance and financial results. Our continued success depends in part on our ability to be an efficient producer in the highly competitive food industry. We face competition in all of our markets from large, national companies and smaller, regional operators. Some of our competitors, including diversified food companies, are larger and have greater financial resources than we do. From time to time, we experience price pressure in some of our markets as a result of competitors’ promotional pricing practices as well as general market conditions. Our failure to match or exceed our competitors’ cost reductions through productivity gains and other improvements could weaken our competitive position. Competition is based on product quality, food safety, distribution effectiveness, brand loyalty, price, effective promotional activities, the ability to identify and satisfy emerging consumer preferences and the ability to provide ancillary support services. We may not be able to effectively compete with these larger, more diversified companies. Also, a disruption of our supply chain could impair our ability to manufacture or supply goods. In addition, products have life cycles, and as the lives of products diminish, we may not be able to replace our existing customers. The loss or consolidation of any of our key customers could adversely affect our financial results by decreasing our existing sales opportunities and prices and increasing our marketing and promotional expenses. The largest purchasers of our products, Jenny Craig, Inc., H. J. Heinz Company, Panda Restaurant Group, Inc. and Safeway Inc., accounted for approximately 24%, 18%, 16% and 13%, respectively, of our total net revenues during the fiscal year ended September 28, 2008. We expect that our sales to these customers will continue to constitute a significant percentage of our net revenues. The loss of any of these customers as a significant outlet for our products could adversely affect our competitive position and operating results if we do not obtain additional customers to offset any change in these accounts. Financial difficulties of foodservice and retail customers due to the economic downturn may adversely affect our revenues, costs and collections. As the domestic economic downturn deepens, collectibility of receivables from our customers may be adversely affected, causing an increase in aged receivables and/or a reduced collection rate. Our margins could be adversely affected if we are forced to write off uncollectible accounts. In addition, the economic downturn could adversely affect the fiscal health of key customers or impair their ability to continue to operate during a recessionary period, which would decrease our revenues unless we are able to replace any lost business. We are a major purchaser of many commodities that we use for raw materials and packaging, and price changes for the commodities we depend on may adversely affect our profitability. When possible, we enter into contracts for the purchase of raw materials at fixed prices, which are designed to protect us against raw material price increases during their terms. Where appropriate, we attempt to recover our commodity cost increases by increasing prices, promoting a higher-margin product mix and creating additional operating efficiencies. We also use paper products, such as corrugated cardboard, aluminum products, films and plastics to package our products. Substantial increases in prices of packaging materials or higher prices of our raw materials could adversely affect our operating performance and financial results. In addition, transportation costs have been unpredictable. If such costs rise to the levels that were seen in the summer of 2008, our operating margins could be eroded. 3 Commodity price changes may result in unexpected increases in raw materials and packaging costs, and we may be unable to increase our prices to offset these increased costs without suffering reduced volume, revenue and income. Any substantial fluctuation in the prices we pay for raw materials and packaging, if not offset by increases in our sales prices, could adversely affect our profitability. If our food products become adulterated or misbranded, we would need to recall those items and may experience product liability claims if consumers are injured as a result. Food products occasionally contain contaminants due to inherent defects in those products or improper storage or handling. Under adverse circumstances, food manufacturers may need to recall some of their products if they become adulterated or misbranded or as a result of government-mandated recall, such as the 2008 beef recall involving the Hallmark/Westland Meat Packing Co. Food manufacturers may also be liable if the consumption of any of their products causes injury. The scope of such a recall could result in significant costs incurred as a result of the recall, potential destruction of inventory, and lost sales. Should consumption of any product cause injury, we may be liable for monetary damages as a result of a judgment against us. A widespread product recall could result in changes to one or more of our business processes, product shortages, a loss of customer confidence in our food or other adverse effects on our business. If we are required to defend against a product liability claim, whether or not we are found liable under the claim, we could incur substantial costs, our reputation could suffer and our customers might substantially reduce their existing or future orders from us. Concerns with the safety and quality of food products could cause customers to avoid our products. We could be adversely affected if our customers and the ultimate consumers of our products lose confidence in the safety and quality of various food products. Adverse publicity about these types of concerns, such as the publicity about genetically modified organisms and avian influenza, whether or not valid, may discourage our customers from buying our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. Negative changes in customer perceptions about the safety and quality of products we produce could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Some of our significant customer and supplier contracts are short-term and may not be renewable on terms favorable to us or at all. Some of our customers and suppliers operate through purchase orders or short-term contracts. Though we have long-term business relationships with many of our customers and suppliers and alternative sources of supply for key items, we cannot be sure that any of these customers or suppliers will continue to do business with us on the same basis. Additionally, although we try to renew these contracts as they expire, there can be no assurance that these customers or suppliers will renew these contracts on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. The termination of or modification to any number of these contracts may adversely affect our business and prospects, including our financial performance and results of operations. Tightening credit markets could impair our ability to obtain financing as and when needed. Tightening credit markets could impair our ability to obtain additional credit as and when needed to finance our operations and fund future plant or business expansions. In addition, tight credit markets could result in an increase in interest rates, which would adversely affect us, as we currently have $40.6 million in long-term debt with interest rates that adjust quarterly. 4 If we violate our financial and other covenants under our secured credit facility, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may be adversely affected if secured parties foreclose on our assets or impose default rates of interest. Our $49.7 million senior secured credit facility, maturing in May 2011, is secured by a first-priority lien on substantially all of our assets. The facility contains covenants whereby, among other things, we are required to maintain compliance with agreed levels of EBITDA, interest coverage, fixed charge coverage, leverage targets and annual capital expenditures and incremental indebtedness limits. If we violate these covenants and are unable to obtain waivers or renegotiate the terms of the covenants, we could become subject to, among other things, interest rate increases and acceleration of maturity of the loans, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. A change in control could result in an event of default under our secured credit facility, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our secured credit facility provides that a change in control would occur if, among other occurrences, Mr. Rudis ceases to be our chief executive officer other than due to death or disability or if a suitable replacement chief executive officer has not accepted appointment within 90 days after Mr. Rudis’ death or disability, any person or group becomes the beneficial owner of 35% or more of our voting stock, or certain changes in the composition of our board occur during any period of two consecutive years. The occurrence of a change in control could permit the secured parties to terminate or reduce their loan commitments, declare all or a portion of loans then outstanding to be due and payable, and/or exercise other available rights and remedies. Depending on our financial condition at the time, we may not be able to raise sufficient funds to repay this indebtedness upon an event of default. Accordingly, the occurrence of a change in control could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. A small number of stockholders beneficially own a significant percentage of our outstanding common stock and therefore could significantly influence or control matters requiring stockholder approval. Assuming the exercise of the aggregate options issued to our executive officers and directors to purchase shares of our common stock, our executive officers and directors and stockholders who beneficially own greater than 5% of our common stock were beneficial owners, in the aggregate, of approximately 28% of our outstanding common stock as of December 11, 2008. These stockholders, if acting together, could be able to significantly influence or control matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. Our failure to attract and retain key management personnel could adversely affect our business. Our business requires managerial, financial and operational expertise, and our future success depends upon the continued service of key personnel. As a value-added manufacturer of quality frozen food products and custom prepared foods, we operate in a specialized industry. Our key personnel have experience and skills specific to this industry, and there are a limited number of individuals with the relevant experience and skills. Though we have an employment agreement with Mr. Rudis, the agreement permits the voluntary resignation on the part of Mr. Rudis prior to the end of the term of the agreement. If we lose any of our key personnel, our business operations could be adversely affected. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights or may become subject to claims relating to our use of our customers’ trademarks, which could harm our competitive position, resulting in decreased revenue. We believe that our trademarks and other proprietary rights, though few in number, are important to our success and competitive position. Accordingly, we devote what we believe are adequate resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks and proprietary rights. We have taken actions to establish and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights. However, these actions may be inadequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from claiming violations of their trademarks and proprietary rights by us. 5 From time to time, we manufacture products under our customers’ trademarks. While we generally require them to agree to indemnify us in connection with our use of their trademarks, it is possible that we could face infringement actions based upon the content provided by our customers. If any of these claims are proved valid, through litigation or otherwise, we may be required to cease using the trademarks and/or pay financial damages and/or expenses for which we are not indemnified. Our common stock price is subject to significant volatility, which could result in substantial losses for investors. During the 52-week period ended December 11, 2008, the high and low sales prices of our common stock on the NYSE Alternext US (formerly, American Stock Exchange) were $10.00 per share and $2.15 per share, respectively. Prices for our shares are determined in the marketplace and may accordingly be influenced by many factors, including, but not limited to: ● the depth and liquidity of the market for the shares; ● quarter-to-quarter variations in our operating results; ● announcements about our performance as well as the announcements of our competitors about the performance of their businesses; ● investors’ evaluations of our future prospects and the food industry generally; ● changes in earnings estimates by, or failure to meet the expectations of, securities analysts; and ● general economic and market conditions. In addition, the stock market has been experiencing significant volatility that may be unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies whose stock is traded. This volatility could adversely affect the trading price of our shares. The price at which investors purchase shares of our common stock may not be indicative of the price that will prevail in the trading market. Investors may be unable to sell their shares of common stock at or above their purchase price, which may result in substantial losses. Future declines in air travel and bankruptcies or other financial difficulties of our airline customers may adversely affect our revenues, costs and collections. In fiscal year 2008, sales to airline customers were approximately $20.7 million, or 8.7% of total net revenues, compared to sales of $19.7 million in fiscal year 2007 and $21.6 million in fiscal year 2006, representing 10.2% and 12.8% of total net revenues in fiscal years 2007 and 2006, respectively. Additionally, accounts receivable from airline-related customers accounted for approximately 10.0% and 9.0% of the total accounts receivable balance at September 28, 2008 and September 30, 2007, respectively. Given the financial and business challenges facing the airline industry, we carefully monitor our receivables from all of our customers in this sector. The on-going effect of these challenges on the airline industry, airline revenues, and on our business in particular cannot be accurately determined and could further adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows by, among other things, decreasing our sales to and making it more difficult to collect receivables from airline customers. Our business is subject to federal, state and local government regulations that could adversely affect our business and financial position. Food manufacturing operations are subject to regulation by various federal, state and local government entities and agencies. As a producer of food products for human consumption, our operations are subject to stringent production, packaging, quality, labeling and distribution standards, including regulations mandated by the federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Future regulation by various federal, state or local governmental entities or agencies may adversely affect our business and financial results. 6 In addition, our business operations and the past and present ownership and operation of our properties are subject to extensive and changing federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations pertaining to the discharge of materials into the environment, the handling and disposition of wastes (including solid and hazardous wastes) or otherwise relating to protection of the environment. We cannot predict whether environmental issues relating to presently known matters or identified sites or to other matters or sites will require additional, currently unanticipated investigation, assessment or expenditures. Future sales of shares of our common stock by our stockholders could cause our stock price to decline. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that market sales of shares of our common stock or the availability of shares of common stock for sale will have on the market price prevailing from time to time. As of December 11, 2008, we had outstanding 15,823,271 shares of common stock, most or all of which were eligible for resale without registration. Also, as of December 11, 2008, there were outstanding options to purchase up to 521,000 shares of common stock. All of the shares of common stock underlying these options are covered by an existing effective registration statement. Sales of shares of our common stock in the public market, or perceptions that those sales may occur, could cause the trading price of our common stock to decrease or to be lower than it might be in the absence of those sales or perceptions. Our articles of incorporation, our bylaws and provisions of Nevada law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so could be in our stockholders’ best interest. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be in the best interest of our stockholders. It could be difficult for a potential bidder to acquire us because our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage takeover attempts. These provisions may limit our stockholders’ ability to approve a transaction that our stockholders may think is in their best interest. These provisions include a requirement that certain procedures must be followed before matters can be proposed for consideration at meetings of our stockholders and also include the ability of our board of directors to fix the rights and preferences of an issue of shares of preferred stock without stockholder action. Provisions of Nevada’s business combinations statute also restrict certain business combinations with interested stockholders. We have elected not to be governed by these provisions in our amended and restated articles of incorporation. However, this election may not be effective unless we meet certain conditions under the Nevada statute. The provisions of our articles of incorporation, bylaws and Nevada law are intended to encourage potential acquirers to negotiate with us and allow the board of directors the opportunity to consider alternative proposals in the interest of maximizing stockholder value. However, those provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals or delay or prevent a change in control. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. ITEM 