Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Particular To GoAmerica We must integrate three businesses that previously operated independently: GoAmerica, Verizion’s TRS division and Hands On. We cannot assure you that we will be able to integrate and manage these businesses effectively. On January 10, 2008, GoAmerica acquired (1) certain assets of the Telecommunications Relay Services (“TRS”) division of MCI Communications Services, Inc. (“Verizon”), a leading provider of relay services transactions, and (2) Hands On Video Relay Services, Inc., a California-based provider of video relay and interpreting services. Although the businesses of these companies are complementary, the integration of the departments, systems business units, operating procedures and information technologies of the three businesses present a significant challenge to management. We cannot assure you that we will be able to integrate and manage these operations effectively or improve the historical financial performances of GoAmerica, Verizon’s TRS division, and Hands On. The failure to successfully integrate these systems and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and financial condition of the combined company. The difficulties of combining the companies’ operations include: the necessity of coordinating geographically separated organizations; integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds; integrating the businesses’ technology and products; combining different corporate cultures; the fact that Hands On has been a privately held company and will now become a subsidiary of a public company; retaining key employees; retaining existing customers; maintaining product development schedules; creating uniform standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems; integrating sales and business development operations; and preserving important distribution relationships. In addition, the process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of the combined company’s businesses. The diversion of management’s attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the integration process could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 19 The successful integration of Verizon’s TRS division depends in part on the performance of Stellar Nordia under a managed services agreement it has entered into with the Company. The Company is relying on a managed services agreement it has executed with Stellar Nordia to assist it in integrating Verizon’s TRS division into the Company’s combined operations. Under this agreement, Stellar Nordia is acting as GoAmerica’s subcontractor, and is assuming facilities, employees, and operational responsibilities at the two primary call centers associated with Verizon’s TRS division business. Although we have a good relationship with Stellar Nordia and are confident in its capabilities, if Stellar Nordia is unable to satisfactorily fulfill its obligations under the managed services agreement, we will be required to provide these services, which would place increased demands on our resources. As described under “Item 1. Business of the Company,” NECA could decrease its reimbursement rates in the future, which could materially adversely affect the Company. As a provider of telerelay services, the Company is reimbursed monthly from the federal TRS fund for each IP relay and VRS conversation minute. The current IP relay rate is $1.293 per minute, and although this rate has been established for three years – through the 2009-2010 reimbursement year – it is subject to an annual 0.5% reduction (among other fluctuating adjustments that may or may not raise the rates). The current reimbursement rate for VRS, which is $6.77 per minute for the first 50,000 monthly minutes, $6.50 per minute for monthly minutes between 50,001 and 500,000, and $6.30 per minute for monthly minutes above 500,000, has also been established (subject to an annual 0.5% reduction) for the three-year period ending in the 2009-2010 reimbursement year. Although these three-year reimbursement rate plans provide increased rate stability from year to year, unanticipated changes to these rates by the FCC or decreases in future three-year reimbursement rates could materially adversely affect our revenues. We incurred significant debt in connection with acquiring Verizon’s TRS division and Hands On. The recent sub-prime mortgage financial crisis has resulted in increased volatility in the capital markets, which could affect our ability to repay or refinance such indebtedness. We financed the acquisition of Verizon’s TRS division through $33.5 million of equity financing and $30 million of senior secured debt financing. We financed the acquisition of Hands On through $40 million of senior secured debt financing and $5 million of equity financing. The recent sub-prime mortgage financial crisis has resulted in increased volatility in the capital markets. We cannot predict the effect such volatility, if it continues or increases, will have on our stock price in general or on our ability to repay or refinance the indebtedness we incurred in connection with these acquisitions. 20 If the growth of the VRS market is less than what we anticipate, the Company’s financial results could be adversely affected. We anticipate significant growth in the VRS market, which currently represents the fastest growing form of telerelay service. If actual growth in this market is less than what we anticipate, the Company’s financial results could be adversely affected. If we cannot attract and retain interpreters, our ability to provide VRS could be adversely affected. The success of our VRS business depends on the availability of highly specialized interpreters. To the extent we are not able to attract and retain these interpreters, our ability to provide V RS could be adversely affected. We have historically incurred losses and these losses will continue in the foreseeable future. GoAmerica has never earned a profit. We had net losses of $3.8 million, $2.0 million and $4.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. While we believe our acquisitions of Verizon’s TRS division and Hands On will enable us to achieve scale in IP relay and VRS in a quicker-to-market and more cost effective manner than would be the case if GoAmerica were to grow these businesses, particularly the VRS business, organically, we can give no assurance that we will attain the type of revenue enhancements and cost savings necessary to achieve or sustain our revenue or profit goals. We may not achieve or sustain our revenue or profit goals, and our ability to do so depends on the factors specified elsewhere in “Risk Factors” as well as on a number of factors outside of our control, including the extent to which: our competitors announce and develop, or to the extent permitted by applicable regulations lower the prices of, competing services; wireless network carriers, data providers and manufacturers of mobile devices dedicate resources to selling our services or increase the costs of, or limit the use of, services or devices that we purchase from them; and The Federal Communications Commission reduces the per-minute reimbursement rates for relay services significantly. As a result, we may not be able to increase revenue or achieve profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. 21 We may be unable to execute our business strategy. Our business strategy is centered on the pursuit of certain priorities, centered on the offering of services to deaf or hard of hearing customers. These priorities and the principal risks associated with each priority include: Development and marketing of new communications services, including branded Internet Protocol and Video Relay Services. To remain competitive in our primary marketing areas, we must continue to offer innovative products and services. We will be limited in the extent to which we can focus upon technological development by capital constraints, by the time that it takes to commercialize product and service concepts and by the steps that may be taken by our competitors. In our rapidly changing environment, developments that appear to present significant advantages may become more broadly available or surpassed before we are able to benefit from our development efforts. In recent years, our shortage of liquidity has required us to reduce the amount of resources devoted to marketing. Providing superior customer experience using in-house and outsourced support functions. Our business model will be materially adversely affected if we are unable to offer a superior relay service user experience and customer support to the users of our relay services with high quality transmissions and highly competent communications assistants handling their calls. In order to improve our operating margins, we intend to cause more of our relay calls to be handled in lower cost countries outside of the U.S. To the extent we rely on third party technologies and interpreters, the user experience with our services is highly dependent on their respective performance. In the past, capital constraints have limited our customer support functions. If we do not respond effectively to these risks, our business could be significantly and adversely affected. We may need additional funds which, if available, could result in increased interest expenses or additional dilution to our stockholders. If additional funds are needed and are not available, our business could be negatively impacted. If we continue to operate unprofitably, if unanticipated contingencies arise or if new business opportunities are presented to us, it will be necessary for us to raise additional capital either through public or private equity or debt financing to primarily finance the execution of our anticipated strategic initiatives. If our plans or assumptions change or are inaccurate regarding new lines of business within our target market, timeliness and effectiveness of implementation of new services we expect to offer, and/or weakness or lack of appreciable growth in our core business, we may be required to seek additional capital. 22 As a result of the acquisitions of Verizon’s TRS division and Hands On, control of the Company is concentrated in Clearlake Capital Group, L.P. and its affiliates and certain former stockholders of Hands On, who own in the aggregate, assuming all of the Company’s outstanding Series A Preferred Stock is converted into common stock, approximately 87.2% of the outstanding shares of common stock of the Company. If funds are raised in the future through the issuance of equity securities, the percentage ownership of our then-current stockholders will be reduced further and the holders of new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the holders of our common stock. If additional funds are raised through a bank credit facility or the issuance of debt securities, the holder of such indebtedness would have rights senior to the rights of common stockholders and the terms of such indebtedness could impose restrictions on our operations. If we need to raise additional funds, we may not be able to do so on terms favorable to us, or at all. If additional capital is required but is not available on acceptable terms or at all, we may be required to sell or otherwise dispose of portions of our business in order to sustain our operations and implement our new business plan. We may not be able to effect such sales on satisfactory terms, or at all. We may acquire or make investments in companies or technologies that could cause loss of value to our stockholders and disruption of our business. Subject to our capital constraints, we intend to continue to explore opportunities to acquire companies or technologies in the future, principally as enhancements to our offerings of products and services to our deaf and hard of hearing customers. Entering into an acquisition entails many risks, any of which could adversely affect our business, including: failure to integrate the acquired assets and/or companies with our current business; the price we pay may exceed the value we eventually realize; loss of share value to our existing stockholders as a result of issuing equity securities as part or all of the purchase price; potential loss of key employees from either our current business or the acquired business; entering into markets in which we have little or no prior experience; diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; assumption of unanticipated liabilities related to the acquired assets; and the business or technologies we acquire or in which we invest may have limited operating histories, may require substantial working capital, and may be subject to many of the same risks we are. 23 We have limited resources and we may be unable to support effectively our operations. We must continue to develop and expand our systems and operations in order to remain competitive. Our need to continually innovate has placed, and we expect it to continue to place, significant strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources. We may be unable to develop and expand our systems and operations or implement our business plan for one or more of the following reasons: we may not be able to retain at reasonable compensation rates qualified engineers and other employees necessary to expand our capacity on a timely basis; we may not be able to dedicate the capital necessary to effectively develop and expand our systems and operations; and we may not be able to expand our customer service, billing and other related support systems. If we cannot manage our operations effectively, our business and operating results will suffer. Additionally, any failure on our part to develop and maintain our services if we experience rapid growth could significantly adversely affect our reputation and brand name which could reduce demand for our services and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Our business prospects depend in part on our ability to maintain and improve our services as well as to develop new services. We believe that our business prospects depend in part on our ability to maintain and improve our current services and to develop new services. Our services will have to achieve market acceptance, maintain technological competitiveness and meet an expanding range of customer requirements. As a result of the complexities inherent in our service offerings, major new services and service enhancements require long development and testing periods. We may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction or marketing of new services and service enhancements. Additionally, our new services and service enhancements may not achieve market acceptance. 24 If we do not respond effectively and on a timely basis to rapid technological change, our business could suffer. The communications industry is characterized by rapidly changing technologies, industry standards, customer needs and competition, as well as by frequent new product and service introductions. We must respond to technological changes affecting both our customers and suppliers. We may not be successful in developing and marketing, on a timely and cost-effective basis, new services that respond to technological changes, evolving industry standards or changing customer requirements. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to accomplish all of the following in a timely and cost-effective manner: effectively use and integrate new technologies; continue to develop our technical expertise; enhance our engineering and system design capabilities; develop applications for new networks and services; develop services that meet changing customer needs; influence and respond to emerging industry standards and other changes; and advertise and market our services. We depend upon carriers’ networks. If we do not have continued access to sufficient capacity on reliable networks, our business will suffer. Our success partly depends on our ability to buy sufficient capacity on or offer our services over the networks of carriers and on the reliability and security of their systems. We depend on these companies to provide uninterrupted and “bug free” service and would be adversely affected if they failed to provide the required capacity or needed level of service. In addition, although we have some forward price protection in our existing agreements with certain carriers, we could be adversely affected if carriers were to increase the prices of their services significantly. 25 We depend on third parties for sales of certain of our products and services which could result in variable and unpredictable revenues. We rely substantially on the efforts of others to sell many of our communications products and services. Should our relationships with distribution parties cease or be less successful than anticipated, our business, results of operations, and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. While we monitor the activities of our distributors and resellers, we cannot control how those who sell and market our products and services perform and we cannot be certain that their performance will be satisfactory. If the number of customers we obtain through these efforts is substantially lower than we expect for any reason, this would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We depend on retaining key personnel. The loss of our key employees and the inability to recruit talented new personnel could materially adversely affect our business. Due to the technical nature of our services and the dynamic market in which we compete, our performance depends on retaining and hiring certain key employees, including technically proficient personnel. Competitors and others have recruited our employees in recent years as we have found it necessary to implement cost controls that have reduced the attractiveness of employment with us. An important part of our compensation to our key employees is in the form of stock option and/or restricted stock grants. The uncertainty associated with our stock price may make it difficult for us to attract and retain qualified personnel. Systems failures could harm our business by injuring our reputation or causing relay service users to use competitors’ services or lead to claims of liability for unsecured transmission of data. Our existing network services are dependent on near immediate, continuous feeds from various sources. The ability of our subscribers to quickly access data requires timely and uninterrupted connections with our network carriers. Any significant disruption from our backup landline feeds could result in delays in our subscribers’ ability to receive such information. In addition, our systems could be disrupted by unauthorized access, computer viruses and other accidental or intentional actions. A significant barrier to the growth of electronic commerce has been the need for secure and reliable transmission of confidential information. We may incur significant costs to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. If a third party were able to misappropriate our subscribers’ personal or proprietary information or credit card information, we could be subject to claims, litigation or other potential liabilities that could materially adversely impact our business. There can be no assurance that our systems will operate appropriately if we experience a hardware or software failure. A failure in our systems could cause delays in transmitting data and, as a result, we may lose customers or face litigation that could materially adversely affect our business. 26 An interruption in the supply of products and services that we obtain from third parties could cause a decline in sales of our services. In designing, developing and supporting our services, we rely on carriers, mobile device manufacturers, content providers and software providers. These suppliers may experience difficulty in supplying us products or services sufficient to meet our needs or they may terminate or fail to renew contracts for supplying us these products or services on terms we find acceptable. Any significant interruption in the supply of any of these products or services could cause a decline in sales of our services, unless and until we are able to replace the functionality provided by these products and services. We also depend on third parties to deliver and support reliable products, enhance their current products, develop new products on a timely and cost-effective basis and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. We may face increased competition which may negatively impact our prices for our services or cause us to lose business opportunities. The market for our services is becoming increasingly competitive. The widespread adoption of industry standards may make it easier for new market entrants and existing competitors to introduce services that compete against ours. We developed our solutions using standard industry development tools. Many of our agreements with carriers, device manufacturers and data providers are non-exclusive. Our competitors may use the same products and services in competition with us. With time and capital, it would be possible for competitors to replicate our services and offer similar services at a lower price. We compete primarily on the basis of the functionality, breadth, quality and price of our services. Our current and potential competitors include: relay providers such as AT&T, Sprint Nextel, Sorenson, Hamilton and Communications Services for the Deaf; and wireless carriers, such as Cingular, Sprint Nextel and T-Mobile, and distributors such as RACO, WirelessRain and Venecom Many of our existing and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and distribution resources than we do. Additionally, many of these companies have greater name recognition and more established relationships with our target customers. Furthermore, these competitors may be able to adopt more aggressive pricing policies and offer customers more attractive terms than we can. In addition, we have established strategic relationships with many of our potential competitors. In the event such companies decide to compete directly with us, such relationships would likely be terminated, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and reduce our market share or force us to lower prices to unprofitable levels. 27 Our intellectual property rights may not be adequately protected under the current state of the law. We rely primarily on trade secret laws, copyright law, trademark law, unfair competition law and confidentiality agreements to protect our intellectual property. To the extent that our technology is not adequately protected by intellectual property law, other companies could develop and market similar products or services which could materially adversely affect our business. We may be sued by third parties for infringement of their proprietary rights and we may incur defense costs and possibly royalty obligations or lose the right to use technology important to our business. The telecommunications and software industries are characterized by protection and vigorous enforcement of applicable intellectual property rights. As the number of participants in our market increases, the possibility of an intellectual property claim against us increases. Any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming and expensive to litigate or settle and could divert management attention from administering our business. A third party asserting infringement claims against us or our customers with respect to our current or future products may materially adversely affect us by, for example, causing us to enter into costly royalty arrangements or forcing us to incur settlement or litigation costs. We may be subject to liability for transmitting certain information, and our insurance coverage may be inadequate to protect us from this liability. We may be subject to claims relating to information transmitted over systems we develop or operate. These claims could take the form of lawsuits for defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement or other actions based on the nature and content of the materials. Although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or may not be adequate to cover all costs incurred in defense of potential claims or to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. 28 Our quarterly operating results are subject to significant fluctuations and, as a result, period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors. These factors include: the demand for and market acceptance of our services; downward price adjustments by our competitors on services they offer that are similar to ours; changes in the mix of services sold by our competitors; technical difficulties or network downtime; the ability to meet any increased technological demands of our customers; and economic conditions specific to our industry. Therefore, our operating results for any particular quarter may differ materially from our expectations or those of security analysts and may not be indicative of future operating results. The failure to meet expectations may cause the price of our common stock to decline. If we fail to manage growth effectively, our business could be disrupted which could harm our operating results. If we are successful in implementing our business plan and experience growth in our business, it will be necessary for us to expand our workforce and to train, motivate and manage additional employees and/or contractors as the need for additional personnel arises. Our personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our future operations. Any failure to effectively manage future growth could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are vulnerable to circumstances outside of our control which could seriously disrupt our business. Our software, as well as any ancillary hardware, is vulnerable to damage or interruption from: fire, flood, and other natural disasters; power loss, computer systems failures, Internet and telecommunications or data network failure, operator negligence, improper operation by or supervision of employees, physical and electronic loss of data or security breaches, misappropriation, and similar events; and computer viruses. Any disruption in the operation of our software, the loss of employees knowledgeable about such software, or our failure to continue to effectively modify and upgrade such software could interrupt our operations or interfere with our ability to provide service to our customers, which could result in reduced sales and affect our operations and financial performance. 29 Risks Particular To Our Industry The market for our services is new and highly uncertain. The market for communications services serving deaf and hard-of-hearing persons has grown rapidly in recent years and the number and variety of competitive services is significant. Maintaining FCC certification has a material impact on our financial results. Current barriers to market acceptance of these services include cost, reliability, functionality and ease of use. Based on these factors and competitive aspects of the market, we cannot be certain of initial or continuing market acceptance of our services. If the market for our services does not grow or grows slower than we currently anticipate, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. New laws and regulations that impact our industry could materially adversely affect our business. As described elsewhere in “Risk Factors,” aspects of our relay business are subject to direct regulation and decisions by the FCC which could materially adversely affect our business. In addition, the carriers who supply us with network access are subject to regulation by the FCC and regulations that affect them could materially adversely affect our business. Our business could suffer significantly depending on the extent to which our activities or those of our customers or suppliers are regulated. In particular, the FCC recently issued an order requiring telerelay service providers to provide appropriate call routing for emergency calls (“E911”) within 30 days of the order’s publication in the Federal Register, and if the Company is unable to comply with this requirement by the compliance deadline, we may be subject to materially adverse FCC action. In addition, the FCC’s November 19, 2007 declaratory ruling may be interpreted to prohibit some or all of the Company’s marketing activities and direct customer contact. On March 17, 2008, the Company filed a petition for review in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit challenging this declaratory ruling. However, if the Company’s challenge is unsuccessful, our potential inability to market our services or to contact our customers could materially adversely affect our revenues. We currently do not collect sales or other taxes with respect to the sale of services or products in states and countries where we believe we are not required to do so. We do collect sales and other taxes in the State in which we have an office and are required by law to do so. One or more jurisdictions have sought to impose sales other tax obligations on companies that engage in online commerce within their jurisdictions. A successful assertion by one or more jurisdictions that we should collect sales or other taxes on our products and services, or remit payment of sales and other taxes for prior periods, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Any new legislation or regulation that may be adopted by the United States Congress to regulate the Internet, or the application of laws or regulations from jurisdictions whose laws do not currently apply to our business, could have a material adverse effect on our business. 30 The steps taken by us to protect our intellectual property may not prove sufficient to prevent misappropriation of our technology or to deter independent third party development of similar technologies. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our technologies or intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. We also rely on certain technologies that we license from third parties and these third party technologies may not continue to be available to us on commercially attractive terms. The loss of the ability to use certain technology or intellectual property could require us to obtain the rights to use substitute technology, which could be more expense or offer lower quality or performance, and therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Third parties could claim infringement by us with respect to current or future technology. We expect that we and other participants in our markets will be increasingly subject to infringement claims as the number of services and competitors in our industry segment grows. Any such claim, whether meritorious or not, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, cause service or installation interruptions or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements might not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. As a result, any such claim could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Particular To Stock Price Our stock price, like that of many technology companies, has been and may continue to be volatile. We expect that the market price of our common stock will fluctuate as a result of variations in our quarterly operating results and other factors beyond our control. These fluctuations may be exaggerated if the trading volume of our common stock is low. In addition, due to the technology-intensive and emerging nature of our business, the market price of our common stock may rise and fall in response to a variety of factors, including: announcements of technological or competitive developments; acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or our competitors; the gain or loss of a significant customer or order; changes in estimates of our financial performance or changes in recommendations by securities analysts regarding us or our industry; or general market or economic conditions. This risk may be heightened because our industry is new and evolving, characterized by rapid technological change and susceptible to the introduction of new competing technologies or competitors. 31 In addition, equity securities of many technology companies have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. These price and volume fluctuations often have been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. Volatility in the market price of our common stock could result in securities class action litigation. This type of litigation, regardless of the outcome, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. As mentioned elsewhere under “Risk Factors,” the recent sub-prime mortgage crisis has resulted in volatility in the capital markets, and we cannot predict the effect such volatility, if it continues or increases, will have on our stock price. Ownership of our common stock is concentrated in a few holders who are in a position to control substantially all significant corporate transactions we may consider. As a result of the acquisitions of Verizon’s TRS division and Hands On, control of the Company is concentrated in Clearlake Capital Group, L.P. and its affiliates and certain former stockholders of Hands On, who own in the aggregate, assuming all of the Company’s outstanding Series A Preferred Stock is converted into common stock, approximately 87.2% of the outstanding shares of common stock of the Company. As a result of their stock ownership, these stockholders are in a position to control substantially all significant corporate transactions we may consider in the future. Our ability to issue additional shares of preferred stock and common stock in the future may be construed as having an anti-takeover effect. The issuance in the future of additional authorized shares of preferred stock or common stock, which our restated certificate of incorporation permits us to do, may have the effect of diluting the earnings per share and book value per share, as well as the stock ownership and voting rights, of the currently outstanding shares of our common stock. In addition, the existence of authorized, but unissued, shares of our preferred stock and common stock may be construed as having an anti-takeover effect. We could, subject to the board’s fiduciary duties and applicable law, issue such authorized shares to purchasers who might oppose a hostile takeover bid. Such a use of these additional authorized shares could render more difficult, or discourage, an attempt to acquire control of us through a transaction opposed by the board. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock. We have never paid or declared any cash dividends on our common stock or other securities and intend to retain any future earnings to finance the development and expansion of our business. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Unless we pay dividends, our stockholders will not be able to receive a return on their shares unless they sell them. Holders of our Series A Preferred Stock receive cumulative dividends. To the extent that such dividends are not paid in cash to the holders of Series A Preferred Stock, further dilution may occur to our holders of common stock upon the conversion of the accrued and unpaid dividends into shares of common stock. 32 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 