Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. If any of the following risks impact our business, the market price of our shares of common stock and other securities could decline and investors could lose all or part of their investment. In addition, the following risk factors and uncertainties could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements, whether made in this Report or the other documents we file with the SEC, or in our annual or quarterly reports to stockholders, future press releases, or orally, whether in presentations, responses to questions or otherwise. Our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows can be impacted by a number of risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to those set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. Although the risks described below are the risks that we believe are material, there also may be risks of which we are currently unaware, or that we currently regard as immaterial based on the information available to us that later may prove to be material. You should be aware that the occurrence of the events described in these risk factors and elsewhere in this Report and in our other filings with the SEC could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Actual results, therefore, may materially differ from anticipated results described in these forward-looking statements. During periods of excess global PCB manufacturing capacity, our gross margins may fall and/or we may have to incur restructuring charges if we choose to reduce the capacity of or close any of our facilities. When we experience excess capacity, our sales revenues may not fully cover our fixed overhead expenses, and our gross margins will fall. If we conclude we have significant, long-term excess capacity, we may decide to permanently close or scale down our facilities and lay off some of our employees. Closures or lay-offs could result in our recording restructuring charges such as severance, other exit costs and asset impairments. Table of Contents 15 A significant portion of our net sales is based on transactions with our largest customers; if we lose any of these customers, our sales could decline significantly. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, sales to our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 74.1%, 73.3% and 76.2% of our net sales, respectively. Four of our customers, Alcatel-Lucent SA, Bosch Group, General Electric Company and Continental AG, each individually accounted for over 10% of our net sales for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. Although we cannot assure you that our principal customers will continue to purchase our products at past levels, we expect a significant portion of our net sales will continue to be concentrated within a small number of customers. The loss of, or significant curtailment of purchases by, any of our principal customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. We may experience fluctuations in operating results, and because many of our operating costs are fixed, even small revenue shortfalls or increased expenses can have a disproportionate effect on operating results. Our operating results may vary significantly for a variety of reasons, including: • overall economic conditions in the electronics industry and global economy; • pricing pressures; • timing of orders from and shipments to major customers; • our capacity relative to the volume of orders; • expenditures in anticipation of future sales; • expenditures or write-offs related to acquisitions; • expenditures or write-offs related to restructuring activities; • start-up expenses relating to new manufacturing facilities; and • variations in product mix. Our historical results of operations may not be indicative of the results to be expected for any future period as a result of unanticipated revenue shortfalls or increased expenses. We have a history of losses and may not be profitable in the future. We have a history of losses and cannot assure you that we will achieve sustained profitability in the near future. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, 2006, and 2005, we incurred losses from continuing operations of $54.7 million, $15.5 million, $25.6 million, and $114.5 million, respectively. If we cannot improve our profitability, the value of our enterprise may decline. We rely on the automotive industry for a significant portion of sales. Accordingly, the economic downturn in this industry has had, and may continue to have, a material adverse affect on our ability to forecast demand and production to meet desired sales levels. The economic downturn in the automotive industry has had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on our ability to forecast demand and production and to meet desired sales levels. A significant portion of our sales are to customers within the automotive industry. For the years ending December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, sales to customers in the automotive industry represented approximately 38.4%, 37.4%, and 36.2% of our net sales, respectively. If the destabilization of the automotive industry or a market shift away from our automotive customers continues, it may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Table of Contents 16 We rely on the telecommunications and networking industries for a significant portion of sales. Accordingly, the economic downturn in these industries has had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on our ability to forecast demand and production and to meet desired sales levels. A large percentage of our business is conducted with customers who are in the telecommunications and networking industries. For the years ending December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, sales to customers in the telecommunications and networking industries represented approximately 26.0%, 25.9%, and 31.0% of our net sales, respectively. These industries are characterized by intense competition, relatively short product life cycles and significant fluctuations in product demand. These industries are heavily dependent on the end markets they serve and therefore can be affected by the demand patterns of those markets. If the weakness in these industries continues, it would likely have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Our exposure to the credit risk of our customers and suppliers may adversely affect our financial results. We sell our products to customers that have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, financial difficulties, particularly in light of the recent global economic downturn. If our customers experience financial difficulties, we could have difficulty recovering amounts owed from these customers. While we perform credit evaluations and adjust credit limits based upon each customer’s payment history and credit worthiness, such programs may not be effective in reducing our exposure to credit risk. We evaluate the collectibility of accounts receivable, and based on this evaluation make adjustments to the allowance for doubtful accounts for expected losses. Actual bad debt write-offs may differ from our estimates, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Our suppliers may also experience financial difficulties, which could result in our having difficulty sourcing the materials and components we use in producing our products and providing our services. If we encounter such difficulties, we may not be able to produce our products for customers in a timely fashion which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. We are influenced by our significant stockholders, whose interests may be different than our other stockholders. Approximately 77.8% of our common stock is owned by VG Holdings. In addition, the 2010 Stockholders Agreement among us and VG Holdings provides we will use commercially reasonable efforts to cause the election of five of the twelve designees of VG Holdings to our board of directors, with the number of designees subject to reduction pursuant to the terms of the 2010 Stockholder Agreement. Accordingly, VG Holdings effectively controls the election of a majority of our board of directors and the approval or disapproval of certain other matters requiring stockholder approval and, as a result, have significant influence over the direction of our management and policies. Using this influence, VG Holdings may take actions or make decisions that are not in the same interests of our other stockholders. In addition, owners of VG Holdings are in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us or otherwise have business objectives that are not aligned with our business objectives. Table of Contents 17 We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NASDAQ rules. As a result, we qualify for, and may avail ourselves of, certain exemptions from the NASDAQ corporate gover­nance requirements. The Funds, through VG Holdings, indirectly own a majority of our outstanding common stock. As a result, we are a “controlled company” under the rules of the NASDAQ. As a “controlled company” under NASDAQ rules, we may elect not to comply with certain NASDAQ corporate governance requirements, including (i) that a majority of our board of directors consist of “independent directors,” as defined under the rules of the NASDAQ, (ii) that we have a nominating committee that is composed entirely of independent directors and (iii) that we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors. Accordingly, our stockholders may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NASDAQ corporate governance requirements as long as we are a “controlled company.” We currently have not availed ourselves to the controlled company exception under NASDAQ rules. Accordingly, the Funds, through VG Holdings, will effectively control the election of a substantial percentage of our board of directors and the approval or disapproval of certain other matters requiring stockholder approval and, as a result, have significant influence over the direction of our management and policies. A significant portion of our manufacturing activities are conducted in foreign countries, exposing us to additional risks that may not exist in the United States. International manufacturing operations represent a majority of our business. Sales outside the United States represent a significant portion of our net sales, and we expect net sales outside the United States to continue to represent a significant portion of our total net sales. Outside of the United States, we operate manufacturing facilities in Mexico and China. Our international manufacturing operations are subject to a number of potential risks. Such risks include, among others: • inflation or changes in political and economic conditions; • unstable regulatory environments; • changes in import and export duties; • domestic and foreign customs and tariffs; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • trade restrictions; • restrictions on the transfer of funds into or out of a country; • labor unrest; • logistical and communications challenges; • difficulties associated with managing a large organization spread throughout various countries; • differing protection of intellectual property and trade secrets; and • other restraints and burdensome taxes. These factors may have an adverse effect on our international operations or on the ability of our international operations to repatriate earnings to us. Table of Contents 18 We are subject to currency fluctuations, which may affect our cost of goods sold and operating margins. A significant portion of our costs, including payroll and rent, are denominated in foreign currencies, particularly the Chinese Renminbi (“RMB”). Changes in exchange rates between other currencies and the U.S. dollar will affect our cost of goods sold and operating margins and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. We lease land for all of our owned and leased Chinese manufacturing facilities from the Chinese government under land use rights agreements that may be terminated by the Chinese government. We lease the land where our Chinese manufacturing facilities are located from the Chinese government through land use rights agreements. Although we believe our relationship with the Chinese government is sound, if the Chinese government decided to terminate our land use rights agreements, our assets could become impaired, and our ability to meet our customers’ orders could be impacted. This could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Electrical power shortages in certain areas of southern China have, in the past, caused the government to impose a power rationing program, and additional or extended power rationings could adversely affect our Chinese operations. In early 2008, certain areas of Southern China faced electrical power constraints, which resulted from extreme winter weather in the area. In order to address the power constraints, the Southern China Province Government initiated a power rationing plan. The power rationing program was terminated in May 2008. Although power rationing did not impact our Asia operations during the winter of 2008-2009, we may experience issues in the future with obtaining power or other key services due to infrastructure weaknesses in China that may impair our ability to compete effectively as well as adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. We are dependent upon the electronics industry, which is highly cyclical and suffers significant downturns in demand, resulting in excess manufacturing capacity and increased price competition. The electronics industry, on which a substantial portion of our business depends, is cyclical and subject to significant downturns characterized by diminished product demand, rapid declines in average selling prices and over-capacity. This industry has experienced periods characterized by relatively low demand and price depression and is likely to experience recessionary periods in the future. Economic conditions affecting the electronics industry in general, or specific customers in particular, have adversely affected our operating results in the past and may do so in the future. Over the past year, the global economy has been greatly impacted by the global recessionary conditions linked to rising default levels in the U.S. home mortgage sector, volatile fuel prices, and a changing political and economic landscape. These factors have contributed to historically low consumer confidence levels, resulting in a significantly intensified downturn in demand for products incorporating PCBs and E-M Solutions, which has in turn adversely affected our operating results in 2008 and 2009. The electronics industry is characterized by intense competition, rapid technological change, relatively short product life cycles and pricing and profitability pressures. These factors adversely affect our customers and we suffer similar effects. Our customers are primarily high-technology equipment manufacturers in the communications and networking, computing and peripherals, test, industrial and medical and automotive markets of the electronics industry. Due to the uncertainty in the markets served by most of our customers, we cannot accurately predict our future financial results or accurately anticipate future orders. At any time, our customers can discontinue or modify products containing components we manufacture, adjust the timing of orders and shipments or affect our mix of consolidated net sales, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Table of Contents 19 There may be shortages of, or price fluctuations with respect to, raw materials or components, which would cause us to curtail our manufacturing or incur higher than expected costs. We purchase the raw materials and components we use in producing our products and providing our services, and we may be required to bear the risk of raw material or component price fluctuations. In addition, shortages of raw materials such as laminates, a principal raw material used in our PCB operations, have occurred in the past and may occur in the future. Raw material or component shortages or price fluctuations such as these could have a material adverse effect on financial condition, operating results and cash flows. In addition, if we experience a shortage of materials or components, we may not be able to produce products for our customers in a timely fashion. The PCB and electronic manufacturing services (“EMS”) industries are highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete effectively in one or both of them. The PCB industry is highly competitive, with multiple global competitors and hundreds of regional and local manufacturers. The EMS industry is also highly competitive, with competitors on the global, regional and local levels and relatively low barriers to entry. In both of these industries, we could experience increased future competition resulting in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share. Any of these could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. In addition, some of our principal competitors may be less leveraged, may have greater access to financial or other resources, may have lower cost operations and may be better able to withstand adverse market conditions. We generally do not obtain long-term volume purchase commitments from customers and therefore, cancellations, reductions in production quantities and delays in production by our customers could adversely affect our operating results. For many of our customers, we do not have firm long-term purchase commitments, but rather conduct business on a purchase order basis. Customers may cancel their orders, reduce production quantities or delay production at any time for a number of reasons. Many of our customers have, over the past several years, experienced significant decreases in demand for their products and services. The uncertain economic conditions in the global economy and in several of the markets in which our customers operate have in the past prompted some of our customers to cancel orders, delay the delivery of some of the products that we manufacture and place purchase orders for fewer products than we previously anticipated. Even when our customers are contractually obligated to purchase products, we may be unable or, for other business reasons, choose not to enforce our contractual rights. Cancellations, reductions or delays of orders by customers could: • adversely affect our operating results by reducing the volume of products that we manufacture for our customers; • delay or eliminate recoupment of our expenditures for inventory purchased in preparation for customer orders; and • lower our asset utilization, which would result in lower gross margins. Our products and the manufacturing processes we use to produce them are often highly complex and therefore may at times contain manufacturing defects, which may subject us to product liability and warranty claims. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to warranty and product liability claims in the event that our products, particularly those supplied to the automotive industry, fail to perform as expected or such failure results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury and/or property damage. If we were to manufacture and deliver products to our customers that contain defects, whether caused by a design, manufacturing or component failure, or by deficiencies in the manufacturing processes, it may result in delayed shipments to customers and reduced or cancelled customer orders. In addition, if any of our products are or are alleged to be defective, we may be required to participate in a recall of such products. As suppliers become more integral to the vehicle design process and assume more of the vehicle assembly functions, vehicle manufacturers are increasingly looking to their suppliers for contributions when faced with product liability claims or recalls. In addition, vehicle manufacturers, who have traditionally borne the costs associated with warranty programs offered on their vehicles, are increasingly requiring suppliers to guarantee or warrant their products and may seek to hold us responsible for some or all of the costs related to the repair and replacement of parts supplied by us to the vehicle manufacturer. A successful warranty or product liability claim against us in excess of our available insurance coverage or established warranty and legal reserves or a requirement that we participate in a product recall may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows and may harm our business reputation, which could lead to customer cancellations or non-renewals. Table of Contents 20 Failure to meet the quality control standards of our automotive customers may cause us to lose existing, or prevent us from gaining new, automotive customers, which may adversely affect our financial results. For safety reasons, our automotive customers have strict quality standards that generally exceed the quality requirements of our other customers. Because a significant portion of our PCB manufacturing facilities products are sold to customers in the automotive industry, if those facilities do not meet these quality standards, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. These automotive customers may require long periods of time to evaluate whether our manufacturing processes and facilities meet their quality standards. If we were to lose automotive customers due to quality control issues, we might not be able to regain those customers or gain new automotive customers for long periods of time, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. The EMS industry is subject to rapid technological change; our failure to respond timely or adequately to such changes may render our existing technology less competitive or obsolete, and our operating results may suffer. The market for our products and services is characterized by rapidly changing product platforms based on technology and continuing process development. The success of our business will depend, in large part, upon our ability to maintain and enhance our technological capabilities, develop and market products and services that meet changing customer needs and successfully anticipate or respond to technological product platform changes on a cost-effective and timely basis. There can be no assurance that we will effectively respond to the technological product requirements of the changing market, including having sufficient cash flow to make additional capital expenditures that may be required as a result of those changes. To the extent we are unable to respond to such technological product requirements, our operating results may suffer. Uncertainty and adverse changes in the economy and financial markets could have an adverse impact on our business and operating results. Uncertainty or adverse changes in the economy could lead to a significant decline in demand for the end products manufactured by our customers, which, in turn, could result in a decline in the demand for our products and pressure to reduce our prices. As a result of the recent global economic downturn, many businesses have experienced weaker demand for their products and services and, therefore, have taken a more conservative stance in ordering component inventory. Any decrease in demand for our products could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Uncertainty and adverse changes in the economy could also increase the cost and decrease the availability of potential sources of financing and increase our exposure to losses from bad debts, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Recent instability in the financial markets has led to the consolidation, restructuring and closure of certain financial institutions. Should any of the financial institutions who maintain our cash deposits or who are a party to our credit facilities become unable to repay our deposits or honor their commitments under our credit facilities, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 19.8% of our cash balances were on deposit with Citibank (China), which is a subsidiary of Citigroup Inc. The U.S. government has previously taken certain actions to stabilize Citigroup Inc. in an effort to remove uncertainty and restore confidence in that company. Our management has been monitoring, and will continue to monitor, the stability of Citigroup, Inc. and the appropriateness of our depository relationship with Citibank (China). Table of Contents 21 We may not realize the expected benefits of the Merix Acquisition because of integration difficulties and other challenges. The success of the Merix Acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated synergies and cost savings from integrating the Merix business with our existing businesses. The integration process may be complex, costly and time-consuming. The difficulties of integrating the operations of the Merix business include, among others: · failure to implement our business plan for the combined business; · unanticipated issues in integrating manufacturing, logistics, information, communications and other systems; · unanticipated changes in applicable laws and regulations; · failure to retain key employees; · failure to retain customers; · the impact of the Merix Acquisition on our internal controls and compliance with the regulatory requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; · unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities; and · operating, competitive and market risks inherent in Merix’ business and our business. We may not accomplish the integration of Merix’ business smoothly, successfully or within the anticipated cost range or timeframe. The diversion of our management’s attention from our current operations to the integration effort and any difficulties encountered in combining operations could prevent us from realizing the full benefits anticipated to result from the Merix Acquisition and could adversely affect our business. We may be unable to realize anticipated cost synergies or may incur additional costs in connection with the Merix Acquisition. We have identified annual cost synergies in connection with the Merix Acquisition, consisting of the elimination of redundant corporate costs, selling, general and administrative expense reductions, materials savings and other rationalizations, in addition to the potential for revenue synergies. While management believes that these cost synergies are achievable, we may be unable to realize all of these cost synergies within the timeframe expected or at all. In addition, we may incur additional and/or unexpected costs in order to realize these cost synergies. The requirements of being a public company, including compliance with the requirements of the NASDAQ and the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, may strain our resources, increase costs and distract management. As a public company with listed equity securities, we need to comply with laws, regulations and requirements, certain corporate governance provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, related regulations of the SEC and requirements of the NASDAQ, with which we were not required to comply as a private company. Complying with these statutes, regulations and requirements will occupy a significant amount of the time of our board of directors and management and will increase our costs and expenses. Success in Asia may adversely affect our U.S. operations. To the extent Asian PCB manufacturers are able to compete effectively with products historically manufactured in the United States, our facilities in the United States may not be able to compete as effectively and parts of our North American operations may not remain viable. Table of Contents 22 If competitive production capabilities increase in Asia and other foreign countries, where production costs are lower, we may lose market share in both North America and Asia, and our profitability may be materially adversely affected by increased pricing pressure. PCB manufacturers in Asia and other geographies often have significantly lower production costs than our North American operations and may even have cost advantages over our Asia operations. Production capability improvements by foreign and domestic competitors may play an increasing role in the PCB markets in which we compete, which may adversely affect our revenues and profitability. While PCB manufacturers in these locations have historically competed primarily in markets for less technologically advanced products, they are expanding their manufacturing capabilities to produce higher layer count, higher technology PCBs and could compete more directly with our North American and Asia operations. Failure to maintain good relations with minority investors in certain majority-owned China subsidiaries could materially adversely affect our ability to manage those operations. Currently, we have two PCB manufacturing plants in China that are each operated by a separate majority-owned subsidiary. A minority investor owns a 5% interest in our subsidiary that operates the Huiyang plant. The same minority investor owns a 15% interest in our subsidiary that operates the Huizhou plant. The minority investor owns the buildings of the Huizhou facility and leases the premises to our subsidiary. The minority investor is owned by the Chinese government and has close ties to local economic development and other Chinese government agencies. In connection with the negotiation of its investments, the minority investor secured certain rights to be consulted and to consent to certain operating and investment matters concerning the plants and our subsidiaries’ boards of directors that oversee these businesses. Failure to maintain good relations with the minority investor in either Chinese subsidiary could materially adversely affect our ability to manage the operations of one or more of the plants. Prior to the Merix Acquisition, Merix has reported material weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting, and if additional material weaknesses are discovered in the future, investor confidence in us may be adversely affected. A material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim consolidated financial statements will not be prevented or detected. Prior to the Merix Acquisition, Merix had previously identified material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting for its Asia operations, which Merix remediated in 2009. In addition, at the time of Merix’ acquisition of its subsidiary, Merix Asia Limited (“Merix Asia”), in September 2005, Merix Asia had a weak system of internal control over financial reporting and needed to develop processes to strengthen its accounting systems and control environment. Merix devoted significant time and resources to improving the internal controls over financial reporting since the acquisition of Merix Asia. We may, in the future, identify additional internal control deficiencies that could rise to the level of a material weakness or uncover errors in financial reporting. Material weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting may cause investors to lose confidence in us, which could have an adverse effect on our business and the trading price of our common stock. If we do not align manufacturing capacity with customer demand, we could experience difficulties meeting our customers’ expectations or, conversely, incur excess costs to maintain unneeded capacity. If we fail to recruit, train and retain sufficient staff to meet customer demand, particularly in China, we may experience extended lead times, leading to the loss of customer orders. Conversely, if we increase manufacturing capacity and order levels do not remain stable or increase, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely impacted. Table of Contents 23 We export products from the United States to other countries. If we fail to comply with export laws, we could be subject to additional taxes, duties, fines and other punitive actions. Exports from the United States are regulated by the U.S. Department of Commerce. Failure to comply with these regulations can result in significant fines and penalties. Additionally, violations of these laws can result in punitive penalties, which would restrict or prohibit us from exporting certain products, resulting in significant harm to our business. There may not be an active, liquid trading market for our common stock. Our common stock began trading on the NASDAQ on February 17, 2010. Previously, there had been no public market for shares of our common stock. We cannot predict the extent to which investor interest in our company will lead to the development of a trading market on the NASDAQ, or how liquid that market may become. If an active trading market does not develop, investors may have difficulty selling any of our common stock that they purchase. We expect that our stock price will fluctuate significantly. Securities markets worldwide have experienced, and are likely to continue to experience, significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions, could reduce the market price of our common stock regardless of our operating performance. The trading price of our common stock is likely to be volatile and subject to wide price fluctuations in response to various factors, including: · market conditions in the broader stock market; · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly financial and operating results; · introduction of new products or services by us or our competitors; · issuance of new or changed securities analysts’ reports or recommendations; · investor perceptions of us and the electronics industry or telecommunications industry; · sales, or anticipated sales, of large blocks of our stock; · additions or departures of key personnel; · regulatory or political developments; · litigation and governmental investigations; and · changing economic conditions. These and other factors may cause the market price and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock. In addition, in the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. Such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management from our business, which could significantly harm our profitability and reputation. Some provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may deter third parties from acquiring us and diminish the value of our common stock. Our third amended and restated certificate of incorporation and second amended and restated bylaws provide for, among other things: · restrictions on the ability of our stockholders to call a special meeting and the business that can be conducted at such meeting; Table of Contents 24 · restrictions on the ability of our stockholders to remove a director or fill a vacancy on the board of directors; · our ability to issue preferred stock with terms that the board of directors may determine, without stockholder approval; · the absence of cumulative voting in the election of directors; · a prohibition of action by written consent of stockholders unless such action is approved by all stockholders; providing, however, that if VG Holdings owns 50% or more of our outstanding capital stock, then action may be taken by the stockholders by written consent if signed by stockholders having not less than the minimum of votes necessary to take such action; and · advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations. These provisions in our third amended and restated certificate of incorporation and second amended and restated bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change of control of our company that is in the best interest of our minority stockholders. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging future takeover attempts. Investors may experience dilution of their ownership interests due to the future issuance of additional shares of our capital stock, which could have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock. We may in the future issue additional shares of our common stock which could result in the dilution of the ownership interests of our stockholders. As of February 16, 2010, we have outstanding approximately 20 million shares of common stock, and no shares of preferred stock. We are authorized to issue 100 million shares of common stock and 25 million shares of preferred stock with such designations, preferences and rights as determined by our board of directors. The potential issuance of such additional shares of common stock may create downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. We may also issue additional shares of our common stock in connection with the hiring of personnel, future acquisitions, future issuances of our securities for capital raising purposes or for other business purposes. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Oil prices may fluctuate, which would increase our cost to manufacture goods. We generate a portion of our own electricity in certain of our manufacturing facilities using diesel generators, and we will be required to bear the increased cost of generating electricity if the cost of oil increases. Prices for diesel fuel rose substantially in several recent years. Future price increases for diesel fuel would increase our cost and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Damage to our manufacturing facilities or information systems due to fire, natural disaster or other events could harm our financial results. We have manufacturing facilities in the United States, China and Mexico. In addition, we maintain engineering and customer service centers in Canada, China, England, Hong Kong, Mexico, The Netherlands, and the United States. The destruction or closure of any of our facilities for a significant period of time as a result of fire, explosion, act of war or terrorism, blizzard, flood, tornado, earthquake, lightning, or other natural disaster could harm us financially, increasing our cost of doing business and limiting our ability to deliver our manufacturing services on a timely basis. Additionally, we rely heavily upon information technology systems and high-technology equipment in our manufacturing processes and the management of our business. We have developed disaster recovery plans; however, disruption of these technologies as a result of natural disaster or other events could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Table of Contents 25 If we lose key management, operations, engineering or sales and marketing personnel, we could experience reduced sales, delayed product development and diversion of management resources. Our success depends largely on the continued contributions of our key management, administration, operations, engineering and sales and marketing personnel, many of whom would be difficult to replace. With the exception of certain of our executive officers, we generally do not have employment or non-compete agreements with our key personnel. If one or more members of our senior management or key professionals were to resign, the loss of personnel could result in loss of sales, delays in new product development and diversion of management resources, which would have a negative effect on our business. We do not maintain “key man” insurance policies on any of our personnel. Due to the global economic downturn, we have made substantial reductions-in-force, including a number of management personnel. We do not anticipate the loss of any of the personnel will have a material impact on our operations and have attempted to mitigate the impact of the change in personnel. However, there can be no assurance that these risks are fully mitigated. In addition, we rely on the collective experience of our employees, particularly in the manufacturing process, to ensure we continuously evaluate and adopt new technologies and remain competitive. Although we are not generally dependent on any one employee or a small number of employees involved in our manufacturing process, we have in the past experienced periods of high employee turnover and may in the future experience significantly high employee turnover at our Asian facilities. If we are not able to replace these people with new employees with comparable capabilities, our operations could suffer as we may be unable to keep up with innovations in the industry or the demands of our customers. As a result, we may not be able to continue to compete effectively. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations that expose us to potential financial liability. Our operations are regulated under a number of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the discharge of hazardous materials into the air, ground and water as well as the handling, storage and disposal of, or exposure to, hazardous materials and occupational health and safety. Violations of these laws can lead to material liabilities, fines or penalties. Compliance with these environmental laws is a major consideration in the fabrication of PCBs because metals and other hazardous materials are used in the manufacturing process. In addition, it is possible that in the future, new or more stringent requirements could be imposed. Various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations impose liability on current or previous real property owners or operators for the cost of investigating, cleaning up or removing contamination caused by hazardous or toxic substances at the property. In addition, because we are a generator of hazardous wastes, we, along with any other person who arranges for the disposal of those wastes, may be subject to potential financial exposure for costs associated with the investigation and remediation of sites at which such hazardous waste has been disposed, if those sites become contaminated. Liability may be imposed without regard to legality of the original actions and without regard to whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances, and we could be responsible for payment of the full amount of the liability, whether or not any other responsible party is also liable. We may have exposure to income tax rate fluctuations as well as to additional tax liabilities, which could impact our financial position. As a corporation with a presence both abroad and in the United States, we are subject to taxes in various jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate is subject to fluctuation as the income tax rates for each year are a function of the following factors, among others: • the effects of a mix of profits or losses earned in numerous tax jurisdictions with a broad range of income tax rates; • our ability to utilize net operating losses; Table of Contents 26 • changes in contingencies related to taxes, interest or penalties resulting from tax audits; and • changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such laws. Changes in the mix of these items and other items may cause our effective tax rate to fluctuate between periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. Certain of our Chinese subsidiaries have operated or continue to operate under tax holidays. The expiration of these tax holidays and new tax legislation could have a material adverse effect on our effective tax rate, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. We are also subject to non-income taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in various jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, we cannot provide assurance that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. We could be subject to litigation in the course of our operations that could adversely affect our operating results. If we became the subject of legal proceedings, our results may be affected by the outcome of such proceedings and other contingencies that cannot be predicted with certainty. When appropriate, and as required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), we estimate material loss contingencies and establish reserves based on our assessment of contingencies where liability is deemed probable and reasonably estimable in light of the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time. Subsequent developments in legal proceedings may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded as a liability or as a reserve against assets in our consolidated financial statements and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows in the period in which a liability would be recognized and the period in which damages would be paid, respectively. Although claims have been rare in the past, because we are a manufacturer, we are subject to claims by our customers or end users of our products that we may have been negligent in our production or have infringed on intellectual property of another. Several of our competitors hold patents covering a variety of technologies, applications and methods of use similar to some of those used in our products. From time to time, we and our customers have received correspondence from our competitors claiming that some of our products, as used by our customers, may be infringing one or more of these patents. Competitors or others have in the past and may in the future assert infringement claims against us or our customers with respect to current or future products or uses, and these assertions may result in costly litigation or require us to obtain a license to use intellectual property rights of others. If claims of infringement are asserted against our customers, those customers may seek indemnification from us for damages or expenses they incur. If we become subject to infringement claims, we would evaluate our position and consider the available alternatives, which may include seeking licenses to use the technology in question or defending our position. These licenses, however, may not be available on satisfactory terms or at all. If we are not able to negotiate the necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms or successfully defend our position, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. We may not have sufficient insurance coverage for certain of the risks and liabilities we assume in connection with the products and services we provide to customers, which could leave us responsible for certain costs and damages incurred by customers. We carry various forms of business and liability insurance that we believe are reasonable and customary for similarly situated companies in our industry. However, we do not have insurance coverage for all of the risks and liabilities we assume in connection with the products and services we provide to customers, such as potential warranty, product liability and product recall claims. As a result, such liability claims may only be partially covered under our insurance policies. We continue to monitor the insurance marketplace to evaluate the availability of and need to obtain additional insurance coverage in the future. However, should we sustain a significant uncovered loss, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Table of Contents 27 As a U.S. corporation with international operations, we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”). A determination that we violated this act may affect our business and operations adversely. As a U.S. corporation, we are subject to the regulations imposed by the FCPA, which generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business. Any determination that we violated the FCPA could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, operating results and cash flows. Degrading of our debt ratings would adversely affect us. Any degrading by Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. and Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services, a division of the McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., of our debt securities could make it more difficult for us to obtain new financing if we had an immediate need to increase our liquidity. We may be required to recognize additional impairment charges. Pursuant to U.S. GAAP, we are required to make periodic assessments of goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets to determine if they are impaired. Disruptions to our business, end-market conditions, protracted economic weakness, unexpected significant declines in operating results of reporting units, divestitures and enterprise value declines may result in additional charges for goodwill and other asset impairments. Future impairment charges could substantially affect our reported earnings in the periods of such charges. In addition, such charges would reduce our consolidated net worth and our stockholder’s equity, increasing our debt-to-total-capitalization ratio. We have a substantial amount of debt and may be unable to service or refinance this debt, which could have negative consequences on our business in the future, could adversely affect our ability to fulfill our obligations under our notes and may place us at a competitive disadvantage in our industry. As of December 31, 2009, our total outstanding indebtedness was approximately $225.1 million, net of approximately $105.7 million of cash restricted for the repurchase of our 2011 Notes. Our net interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2009, was approximately $34.4 million. As of December 31, 2009, our total consolidated stockholders’ equity was a deficit of approximately $58.0 million. This high level of debt could have negative consequences. For example, it could: • result in our inability to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our credit facilities; • increase our vulnerability to adverse industry and general economic conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make scheduled principal payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for working capital, capital investments and other business activities; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital investments and other business activities; Table of Contents 28 • limit our ability to refinance our indebtedness on terms that are commercially reasonable, or at all; • expose us to the risk of interest rate fluctuations to the extent we pay interest at variable rates on the debt; • limit our flexibility to plan for, and react to, changes in our business and industry; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to our less leveraged competitors. Servicing our debt requires a significant amount of cash and our ability to generate cash may be affected by factors beyond our control. Our business may not generate cash flow in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay the principal of, or interest on, our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs, including working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances and other general corporate requirements. Our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that: • our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations; • we will realize the cost savings, revenue growth and operating improvements related to the execution of our long-term strategic plan; or • future sources of funding will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs. If we cannot fund our liquidity needs, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances; selling assets; restructuring or refinancing our debt; or seeking additional equity capital. We cannot assure you that any of these remedies could, if necessary, be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or that they would permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. The 2010 Credit Agreement and the indenture governing the outstanding $220.0 million aggregate principal amount of the 12% Senior Secured Notes due 2015 (the “2015 Notes”) limits the use of the proceeds from any disposition of assets and, as a result, we may not be allowed, under those documents, to use the proceeds from such dispositions to satisfy all current debt service obligations. In addition, if we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage, including the risk that we would be unable to service our debt or generate enough cash flow to fund our liquidity needs, could intensify. We are a holding company with no operations of our own and depend on our subsidiaries for cash. Although our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries, none of our subsidiaries are obligated to make funds available to us for payment on our indebtedness. Accordingly, our ability to service our indebtedness is dependent on the earnings and the distribution of funds from our subsidiaries. In addition, payment of dividends, distributions, loans or advances to us by our subsidiaries could be subject to restrictions on dividends or repatriation of earnings under applicable local law and monetary transfer restrictions in the jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate. Payments to us by our subsidiaries are also contingent upon our subsidiaries’ earnings. Our ability to repatriate cash generated by our foreign operations or borrow from our foreign subsidiaries may be limited by tax, foreign exchange or other laws. Also, the amount we are able to repatriate to pay U.S. dollar based obligations will be subject to foreign exchange rates. Foreign earnings may be subject to foreign taxes and withholding, potentially at confiscatory levels. Cash we hold in foreign entities may become subject to exchange controls that prevent their being converted into other currencies, including U.S. dollars. Foreign tax laws may affect our ability to repatriate cash from foreign subsidiaries in a tax efficient manner or at all. Legal restrictions may prevent foreign subsidiaries from paying dividends or other cash distributions to service payments on our indebtedness, and directors and officers of such foreign subsidiaries may therefore be unable or unwilling to authorize such payments or such loans. If these or other risks limit our ability to transfer cash generated by our foreign operations to us, our ability to make payments on our indebtedness will be impaired. Table of Contents 29 Restrictive covenants in the indenture governing the 2015 Notes and the agreements governing our other indebtedness will restrict our ability to operate our business. The indenture for the 2015 Notes and the agreement governing the Wachovia Credit Facility do, and agreements governing our other indebtedness in effect from time to time will likely, contain covenants that restrict our ability to, among other things, incur additional debt, pay dividends, make investments, enter into transactions with affiliates, merge or consolidate with other entities or sell all or substantially all of our assets. Additionally, the agreement governing the 2010 Credit Agreement requires us to maintain certain financial ratios. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default thereunder, which could allow the lenders or the noteholders to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder immediately due and payable. If we are unable to repay outstanding borrowings when due, the lenders, under the 2010 Credit Agreement and the collateral trustee will under the indenture governing the 2015 Notes and related agreements have the right to proceed against the collateral granted to them, including our capital stock. We may also be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise because of the limitations imposed on us by the restrictive covenants under our indebtedness. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 