Item 1A. Risk Factors The following is a summary of certain risks we face in our business. They are not the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. In assessing these risks, investors should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Risks Particular To Purple Communications A Declaratory Ruling issued by the Consumer and Governmental Affairs Bureau of the FCC has limited the types of calls for which providers of VRS calls may be reimbursed which will significantly reduce our revenue. On February 25, 2010, the Consumer and Governmental Affairs Bureau of the FCC (the “CGB”) issued a Declaratory Ruling (the “Ruling”) which stated that VRS calls made by or to a VRS provider’s employee, or the employee of a VRS provider’s subcontractor, are not eligible for compensation from the TRS Fund on a per-minute basis. Instead, the CGB stated that TRS providers are indirectly compensated for such calls by including the costs of such calls in business expenses reported to the FCC, which the FCC then uses to calculate rates for qualified TRS minutes. The Ruling also stated that the use of VRS to connect two hearing users or to connect two users who are both outside the United States does not qualify as TRS, and, therefore, are not compensable by the TRS Fund. We have long believed that certain VRS calls made by or to employees, or employees of our subcontractors, should be compensable based upon our interpretation of the Americans with Disabilities Act and the rules and guidance issued by the FCC. Nonetheless, in response to the FCC’s Ruling, we have restated our financial results for the annual period ended December, 31, 2008 to exclude $10,724,000 of revenue attributable to minutes that are not compensable under the Ruling. Our results of operations for the annual period ended December 31, 2009 also exclude revenue attributable to such minutes. Revenue for future periods will not include revenue attributable to minutes that are not compensable pursuant to the Ruling, which will decrease the amount of revenue that we would otherwise have expected to recognize based upon our understanding of compensable minutes under FCC rules and guidance prior to the issuance of the Ruling We may not be able to satisfy the claims made by the FCC for reimbursement, or such demands for payment may put a significant strain on our capital resources, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. On February 19, 2010 and February 25, 2010, we received notices of demands for payment (the “Demands for Payment”) from the FCC of $18.5 million for erroneous receipt of funds from the National Exchange Carriers Association (“NECA”), which administers the Federal Interstate Telecommunications Relay Services Fund (the “TRS Fund”). The Demands for Payment also directed NECA to suspend all further payments to the Company from the TRS Fund. In order to avoid cessation of operations resulting from the Demands for Payment and suspension of payment from the TRS Fund, we, our lenders and the FCC entered into an interim Standstill Agreement, pursuant to which, among other things, we agreed not to challenge the FCC’s claim for $18.5 million and we agreed to negotiate in good faith to reach a final and binding settlement concerning the FCC’s claim for reimbursement within 180 days. We are actively engaged in discussions to resolve the FCC’s claim against us for prior fees paid by the TRS Fund to us that the FCC has considered not compensable. We currently do not have sufficient capital resources to pay the full amount of the FCC’s claim. If we are not able to reach agreement to extend payments to the FCC over a period of time, we may be unable to satisfy the obligation, in which case we may be required to cease operations. Even if we are able to satisfy the obligation, payments to the FCC may significantly restrain our capital resources and our ability to conduct operations in the ordinary course of business, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents If we are unable to reach settlement with the FCC pursuant to the terms of the interim Standstill Agreement, the claims for reimbursement made by the FCC and any additional claims that may be made by the FCC would materially and adversely affect our operations. As part of our interim Standstill Agreement with the FCC, we and the FCC agreed to negotiate in good faith to reach a final and binding settlement concerning the FCC’s claim for reimbursement and the matters that have been the subject of all of the FCC’s investigations during the 180-day period following the interim Standstill Agreement, ending on September 4, 2010. During this period, the FCC has agreed not to withhold payment or cause NECA to withhold payment to us in order to offset the FCC’s claim for reimbursement. If we are unable to agree to terms of a settlement with the FCC prior to the end of the standstill period, the FCC may elect to cause NECA to withhold payments to us as a means of collecting the FCC’s claims for reimbursement. Approximately 90% of our revenue is generated from the TRS Fund administered by NECA. If NECA withholds payment, we will be unable to generate sufficient revenue to continue operations. In addition, failure to reach settlement with the FCC could result in additional claims by the FCC as a result of its investigations, which claims could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We face risk related to the pending formal SEC investigation, grand jury investigation FCC investigation, and a Federal False Claims Act case. On June 25, 2009, we received a subpoena for documents from the grand jury for the United States District Court for the District of Columbia and on June 26, 2009, we received subpoenas from the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) for documents and testimony pursuant to a formal order of investigation. We are in the process of providing documents in response to such subpoenas. In addition, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have provided testimony to the SEC. We are also subject to subpoenas and an investigation by the FCC relating to the conduct of our marketing operations, compliance with certain rules, service and other matters. On April 28, 2010, the Civil Division of the Department of Justice (the “DOJ”) provided to us a copy of a Qui Tam complaint alleging violations of the Federal False Claims Act. The DOJ has not intervened in this case at this time and we are engaged in discussions with the DOJ regarding these claims. We are unable to predict the outcome of these matters, but we are cooperating with the government agencies involved in these matters. The SEC, grand jury and FCC investigations, as well as the Qui Tam claims, may result in a diversion of management’s attention and resources including the significant costs of document production and legal fees and may contribute to current and future stock price volatility. In addition, in the event we are required to pay any fees, penalties or sanctions associated with these investigations and the Federal False Claims Act case, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. NECA has notified TRS providers of new delayed payment terms for reimbursements which will negatively affect our cash flow and liquidity. Commencing in August 2009, for reimbursements generated from minutes used in July 2009 and thereafter, NECA has implemented new payment terms for TRS providers that delay the collection by TRS providers of NECA reimbursements up to 20 business days. The delayed payment terms have had a negative affect on our cash flow and liquidity. The FCC has the ability to suspend the Company’s monthly payments from NECA without reasonable notice or ability of the Company to promptly remedy the suspension. We are dependent on our monthly NECA payment for nearly 90% of our revenue. The FCC has demonstrated the ability and willingness to suspend our monthly payments from NECA without reasonable notice or ability to remedy the suspension. Cessation or suspension of our monthly NECA payment puts us in to an unstable and precarious financial condition which could result in foreclosure, liquidation and/or bankruptcy. We may need additional funds which, if available, could result in increased interest expenses or additional dilution to our stockholders. If additional funds are needed and are not available, our business could be negatively impacted. If we continue to operate unprofitably, if unanticipated contingencies arise, if we do not have sufficient funds to satisfy claims by the FCC, if we are not able to fund operations with reduced cash flow resulting from the new NECA payment terms or if 13 Table of Contents new business opportunities are not presented to us, it will be necessary for us to raise additional capital either through public or private equity or debt financing to primarily finance the execution of our anticipated strategic initiatives. If our plans or assumptions change or are inaccurate regarding new lines of business within our target market, timeliness and effectiveness of implementation of new services we expect to offer, and/or weakness or lack of appreciable growth in our core business, we may be required to seek additional capital. In particular, we will require substantial additional funds to continue our operations if pending governmental proceedings are not settled expeditiously and on favorable terms or pending or planned reimbursement requests to NECA are rejected. To meet our additional capital needs, we may seek funds through additional rounds of financing, including private or public equity or debt offerings. We cannot say with any certainty that we will be able to obtain the additional needed funds on reasonable terms, or at all. The sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities could result in additional dilution to our stockholders. If we issued preferred equity or debt securities, these securities could have rights superior to holders of our common stock or existing preferred stock, and could contain covenants that will restrict our operations. If additional funds are raised through a bank credit facility or the issuance of debt securities, the holder of such indebtedness would have rights senior to the rights of equity holders and the terms of such indebtedness could impose restrictions on our operations. If adequate funds are not available in the near term, we could lose our key employees and might have to further delay, scale back or eliminate one or more of our research and development programs or planned capital expenditures, which would impair our future prospects. In addition, we may be unable to continue our business operations. These circumstances raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern and there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully raise capital, reduce expenses, or satisfactorily resolve our governmental investigations or claims for reimbursement by the FCC. We may not have access to sufficient liquidity in the event holders of our preferred stock elect to redeem their stock. Holders of our Series A preferred stock may, at any time after January 10, 2013, elect to require us to redeem their Series A preferred stock. Holders of our Series B preferred stock may, at any time after January 10, 2016, elect to require us to redeem their Series B preferred stock. If such holders elect to force a redemption of their shares, we would be required to pay cash for such shares in an amount equal to the original issue price of such shares plus all accrued and unpaid dividends on such shares. We cannot be certain that we will be sufficiently liquid to satisfy our potential obligation to redeem our preferred stock. Even if we had sufficient cash to satisfy our redemption obligations, such a redemption could result in the depletion of our cash, which could reduce our ability to respond to changing economic and business conditions and our results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted. The holders of our preferred stock are entitled to receive liquidation payments in preference to the holders of our common stock. Upon a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of our affairs, whether voluntary or involuntary, the holders of our outstanding preferred stock are entitled to receive a liquidation payment prior to the payment of any amount with respect to shares of our common stock. The amount of this preferential liquidation payment per share of preferred stock is: (1) $5.17 per share of Series A preferred stock (as adjusted for stock splits, reverse stock splits, stock dividends and similar transactions with respect to the Series A preferred stock) plus accrued and unpaid dividends on such share of Series A preferred stock, and (2) $1.50 per share of Series B preferred stock (as adjusted for stock splits, reverse stock splits, stock dividends and similar transactions with respect to the Series B preferred stock) plus accrued and unpaid dividends on such share of Series B preferred stock. As of December 31, 2009, the aggregate liquidation preference of our outstanding preferred stock was $51,858. Because of the liquidation preference to which the holders of shares of the preferred stock are entitled, the amount available to be distributed to the holders of shares of our common stock upon a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of our affairs could be substantially limited or reduced. As described under “Item 1. Business of the Company,” NECA could decrease its reimbursement rates in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. As a provider of relay services, we are reimbursed monthly from the federal TRS fund for each IP relay and VRS conversation minutes. The current IP relay rate is currently $1.287 per minute, and although the IP relay rate has been established for three years—through the 2009-2010 reimbursement year—it is subject to an annual 0.5% reduction (among other fluctuating adjustments that may or may not raise the rates). The reimbursement rate for VRS, which currently is $6.7025 per minute for the first 50,000 monthly minutes, $6.4352 per minute for monthly minutes between 50,001 and 500,000, and $6.2372 per minute for monthly minutes above 500,000, has also been established (subject to an annual 0.5% reduction) for a three-year period ending in the 2009-2010 reimbursement year. Although these three-year reimbursement rate plans provide increased rate stability from year to year, unanticipated changes to these rates by the FCC or decreases in future three-year reimbursement rates could materially adversely affect our revenues, and we cannot assure you that the FCC, under a new administration, or otherwise, will not introduce a change or decrease to the reimbursement rates prior to contemplated end of the current rate plan ending 2010. 14 Table of Contents We have incurred a significant amount of indebtedness that could adversely affect our operations and financial results and impact our ability to satisfy our obligations. We had approximately $72 million of indebtedness as of December 31, 2009. We have a term loan from Churchill Financial LLC as administrative agent and Cerebus/Ableco, as collateral agent, for $36 million and a revolving line of credit with Churchill for up to $8 million, of which there was $5 million in availability as of December 31, 2009. The maturity date of the term loan is January 10, 2014, and the maturity date for revolving loans made from time to time is January 10, 2013. We also have a subordinated (or second lien) loan from Clearlake, as administrative agent, and Reservoir Capital as collateral agent, for $32 million, with a maturity date of January 10, 2015. Our indebtedness could have the effect of, among other things, increasing our exposure to general adverse economic and industry conditions, limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry, and limiting our ability to borrow additional funds. If we are unable to satisfy our obligations at maturity, extend the maturity dates of our credit agreements or refinance our indebtedness at maturity, we may be required to raise capital through the sale of equity securities or sell some of our assets. We may be unable to refinance our indebtedness when it becomes due or raise equity capital on favorable terms, or at all. In addition, if we have to sell some of our assets to satisfy indebtedness, the timing of such sales may not enable us to maximize the value of such assets. The failure to refinance, raise capital or sell assets, if required, sufficient to meet our debt obligations as they become due would have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. Failure to satisfy covenants under our credit agreements could accelerate our obligations under such credit agreements, which would result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Our credit agreements with first and second lien lenders contain financial and other covenants that we must satisfy. Our ability to continue to borrow under our revolving line of credit depends upon our ability to comply with those covenants. Financial covenants in the credit agreements include, among others, limits on maximum consolidated leverage, maximum amounts of capital expenditures, minimum amount of net revenue, and having minimum reserves on our books. If we fail to satisfy any of our covenants, the lender may elect to accelerate our payment obligations under the credit agreement. In addition, failure to satisfy any of the covenants or to otherwise default under either of the credit agreements would also cause a default under our other credit agreement. We may be unable to satisfy our debt obligations if the amounts due under the credit agreements are accelerated due to an event of default and such an acceleration event would result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We are currently in default under our credit agreements as a result of the demands for payment made by the FCC and the related governmental investigations. Concurrent with entering into the Standstill Agreement with our lenders and the FCC, our lenders agreed to forbear from exercising any rights or remedies under the credit agreements arising under such defaults until expiration of the standstill period under the Standstill Agreement, or September 4, 2010. If we are unable to resolve all matters relating to the demands for payment by the FCC within the standstill period, we will continue to be in default under our credit agreements and our lenders may exercise all rights and remedies available to them under the credit agreements, including accelerated the due date of all indebtedness. We cannot be certain of the availability of credit under our revolving credit facility. Although we have a revolving line of credit for an amount up to $8 million, our ability to access that line of credit may be negatively impacted if the first lien lender suffers liquidity issues. In such an event, we may not be able to draw on all, or a substantial portion, of the available funds under our revolving line of credit. If we are unable to borrow the full amount of available credit under the revolving line of credit agreement or are unable to obtain future financing or to refinance our existing credit facilities, our ability to respond to changing economic and business conditions and our results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted. We face significant competition which may negatively impact usage of our services or cause us to lose business opportunities. The market for our services is increasingly competitive. The widespread adoption of industry standards may make it easier for new market entrants and existing competitors to introduce services that compete against ours. Our competitors may use the same products and services in competition with us. With time and capital, it would be possible for competitors to replicate our services. We compete primarily on the basis of the functionality, breadth, quality and price of our services. Our current and potential competitors include relay providers such as Sorenson, CSDVRS, Snap, Hamilton and Viable. Sorenson has substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and distribution resources than we do, and benefits from holding a substantial majority of the VRS market share, estimated at 75% of the VRS market. Additionally, Sorenson has greater name recognition and more established relationships with our target customers. Sorenson also controls an estimated 75% of the end-point video phones distributed in the consumer market which provides them a significant competitive advantage over other relay providers. 15 Table of Contents If we cannot attract and retain interpreters, our ability to provide VRS could be adversely affected. The success of our VRS business depends on the availability of highly specialized interpreters. To the extent we are not able to attract and retain these interpreters, our ability to provide VRS, and community interpreting, could be adversely affected. We have historically incurred losses and these losses will continue in the foreseeable future. We have never earned a profit. We had net losses applicable to common stockholders of $132.3 million, $19.0 million and $3.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. While we believe the acquisition of Verizon’s TRS division, HOVRS and SLA and VLI will enable us to achieve scale in IP relay, VRS and community interpreting in a quicker-to-market and more cost effective manner than would be the case to grow these businesses organically, we can give no assurance that we will attain the type of revenue enhancements and cost savings necessary to achieve or sustain our revenue or profit goals. Failure to achieve or sustain our revenue or profit goals would adversely affect our results of operations. Our ability to achieve or sustain our revenue and profit goals depends on the factors specified elsewhere in “Risk Factors” as well as on a number of factors outside of our control, including the extent to which: • our competitors announce and develop or, to the extent permitted by applicable regulations, lower the prices of, competing services; and • The Federal Communications Commission materially reduces the per-minute reimbursement rates for relay services. As a result, we may not be able to increase revenue or achieve profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. We may be unable to execute our business strategy. Our business strategy is centered on the pursuit of certain priorities, centered on the offering of services to deaf or hard of hearing customers. These priorities and the principal risks associated with each priority include: • Development and marketing of new communications services and products, including branded Internet Protocol and Video Relay Services and related hardware. To remain competitive in our primary marketing areas, we must continue to offer innovative products and services. We will be limited in the extent to which we can focus upon technological development by capital constraints, by the time that it takes to commercialize product and service concepts and by the steps that may be taken by our competitors. In our rapidly changing environment, developments that appear to present significant advantages may become more broadly available or surpassed before we are able to benefit from our development efforts. In recent years, our shortage of liquidity has required us to reduce the amount of resources devoted to marketing. • Providing superior customer experience using in-house and outsourced support functions. Our business model will be materially adversely affected if we are unable to offer a superior relay service user experience and customer support to the users of our relay services with high quality transmissions and highly competent communications assistants handling their calls. To the extent we rely on third party technologies and interpreters, the user experience with our services is highly dependent on their respective performance. In the past, capital constraints have limited our customer support functions. If we do not respond effectively to these risks, our business could be significantly and adversely affected. We may acquire or make investments in companies or technologies that could cause loss of value to our stockholders and disruption of our business. Subject to our capital constraints, we intend to continue to explore opportunities to acquire companies or technologies in the future, principally as enhancements to our offerings of products and services to our deaf and hard of hearing customers. Entering into an acquisition entails many risks, any of which could adversely affect our business, including: • failure to integrate the acquired assets and/or companies with our current business; 16 Table of Contents • the price we pay may exceed the value we eventually realize; • loss of share value to our existing stockholders as a result of issuing equity securities as part or all of the purchase price; • potential loss of key employees from either our current business or the acquired business; • entering into markets in which we have little or no prior experience; • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • assumption of unanticipated liabilities related to the acquired assets; and • the business or technologies we acquire or in which we invest may have limited operating histories, may require substantial working capital, and may be subject to many of the same risks we are. We have limited resources and we may be unable to support effectively our operations. We must continue to develop and expand our systems and operations in order to remain competitive. Our need to continually innovate has placed, and we expect it to continue to place, significant strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources. We may be unable to develop and expand our systems and operations or implement our business plan for one or more of the following reasons: • we may not be able to retain at reasonable compensation rates qualified engineers and other employees necessary to expand our capacity on a timely basis; • we may not be able to dedicate the capital necessary to effectively develop and expand our systems and operations; and • we may not be able to expand our customer service, billing and other related support systems. Additionally, during 2009 and the first quarter of 2010, we have eliminated over 300 employee and sub contractor positions, further straining our remaining managerial and human capital resources. If we cannot manage our operations effectively, our business and operating results will suffer. Additionally, any failure on our part to develop and maintain our services if we experience rapid growth could significantly adversely affect our reputation and brand name which could reduce demand for our services and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Our business prospects depend in part on our ability to maintain and improve our services as well as to develop new products and services. We believe that our business prospects depend in part on our ability to maintain and improve our current services and to develop new products and services. Our products and services will have to achieve market acceptance, maintain technological competitiveness and meet an expanding range of customer requirements. As a result of the complexities inherent in our product and service offerings, major new product and services and product and service enhancements require long development and testing periods. We may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction or marketing of new products and services and product and service enhancements. Additionally, our new products and services and product and service enhancements may not achieve market acceptance. If we do not respond effectively and on a timely basis to rapid technological change, our business could suffer. The communications industry is characterized by rapidly changing technologies, industry standards, customer needs and competition, as well as by frequent new product and service introductions. We must respond to technological changes affecting both our customers and suppliers. We may not be successful in developing and marketing, on a timely and cost-effective basis, new services that respond to technological changes, evolving industry standards or changing customer requirements. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to accomplish all of the following in a timely and cost-effective manner: • effectively use and integrate new technologies; • continue to develop our technical expertise; • enhance our engineering and system design capabilities; • develop applications for new networks and services; 17 Table of Contents • develop services that meet changing customer needs; • influence and respond to emerging industry standards and other changes; and • advertise and market our services. We depend upon carriers’ networks. If we do not have continued access to sufficient capacity on reliable networks, our business will suffer. Our success partly depends on our ability to buy sufficient capacity on or offer our services over the networks of carriers and on the reliability and security of their systems. We depend on these companies to provide uninterrupted and “bug free” service and would be adversely affected if they failed to provide the required capacity or needed level of service. In addition, although we have some forward price protection in our existing agreements with certain carriers, we could be adversely affected if carriers were to increase the prices of their services significantly. We depend on retaining key personnel. The loss of our key employees and the inability to recruit talented new personnel could materially adversely affect our business. Due to the technical nature of our services and the dynamic market in which we compete, our performance depends on retaining and hiring certain key employees, including technically proficient personnel. Competitors and others have recruited our employees in recent years as we have found it necessary to implement cost controls that have reduced the attractiveness of employment with us. An important part of our compensation to our key employees has historically been in the form of stock option and/or restricted stock grants. The uncertainty associated with our stock price and our voluntary delisting from NASDAQ and deregistration may make it difficult for us to attract and retain qualified personnel. Systems failures could harm our business by injuring our reputation or causing relay service users to use competitors’ services or lead to claims of liability for unsecured transmission of data. Our existing network services are dependent on near immediate, continuous feeds from various sources. The ability of our users to quickly access data requires timely and uninterrupted connections with our network carriers. Any significant disruption from our backup landline feeds could result in delays in our subscribers’ ability to receive such information. In addition, our systems could be disrupted by unauthorized access, computer viruses and other accidental or intentional actions. A significant barrier to the growth of electronic commerce has been the need for secure and reliable transmission of confidential information. We may incur significant costs to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. If a third party were able to misappropriate our users’ personal or proprietary information or credit card information, we could be subject to claims, litigation or other potential liabilities that could materially adversely impact our business. There can be no assurance that our systems will operate appropriately if we experience a hardware or software failure. A failure in our systems could cause delays in transmitting data and, as a result, we may lose customers or face litigation that could materially adversely affect our business. An interruption in the supply of products and services that we obtain from third parties could cause a decline in sales of our services. In designing, developing and supporting our services, we rely on carriers, mobile device manufacturers, content providers and software providers. These suppliers may experience difficulty in supplying us products or services sufficient to meet our needs or they may terminate or fail to renew contracts for supplying us these products or services on terms we find acceptable. Any significant interruption in the supply of any of these products or services could cause a decline in sales of our services, unless and until we are able to replace the functionality provided by these products and services. We also depend on third parties to deliver and support reliable products, enhance their current products, develop new products on a timely and cost-effective basis and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. Our intellectual property rights may not be adequately protected under the current state of the law. We rely primarily on trade secret laws, copyright law, trademark law, unfair competition law and confidentiality agreements to protect our intellectual property. To the extent that our technology is not adequately protected by intellectual property law, other companies could develop and market similar products or services which could materially adversely affect our business. We may be sued by third parties for infringement of their proprietary rights and we may incur defense costs and possibly royalty obligations or lose the right to use technology important to our business. The telecommunications and software industries are characterized by protection and vigorous enforcement of applicable intellectual property rights. As the number of participants in our market increases, the possibility of an intellectual property claim against us increases. Any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming and expensive to litigate or settle and could divert management attention from administering our business. A third party asserting infringement claims against us or our customers with respect to our current or future products may materially adversely affect us by, for example, causing us to enter into costly royalty arrangements or forcing us to incur settlement or litigation costs. 18 Table of Contents We may be subject to liability for transmitting certain information, and our insurance coverage may be inadequate to protect us from this liability. We may be subject to claims relating to information transmitted over systems we develop or operate. These claims could take the form of lawsuits for defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement or other actions based on the nature and content of the materials. Although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or may not be adequate to cover all costs incurred in defense of potential claims or to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. Our quarterly operating results are subject to significant fluctuations and, as a result, period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors. These factors include: • the demand for and market acceptance of our services; • downward price adjustments by our competitors on services they offer that are similar to ours; • changes in the mix of services sold by our competitors; • technical difficulties or network downtime; • the ability to meet any increased technological demands of our customers; and • economic conditions specific to our industry. Therefore, our operating results for any particular quarter may differ materially from our expectations or those of security analysts and may not be indicative of future operating results. The failure to meet expectations may cause the price of our common stock to decline. If we fail to manage growth effectively, our business could be disrupted which could harm our operating results. If we are successful in implementing our business plan and experience growth in our business, it will be necessary for us to expand our workforce and to train, motivate and manage additional employees and/or contractors as the need for additional personnel arises. Our personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our future operations. Any failure to effectively manage future growth could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are vulnerable to circumstances outside of our control which could seriously disrupt our business. Our software, as well as any ancillary hardware, is vulnerable to damage or interruption from: • fire, flood, and other natural disasters; • power loss, computer systems failures, Internet and telecommunications or data network failure, operator negligence, improper operation by or supervision of employees, physical and electronic loss of data or security breaches, misappropriation, and similar events; and • computer viruses. Any disruption in the operation of our software, the loss of employees knowledgeable about such software, or our failure to continue to effectively modify and upgrade such software could interrupt our operations or interfere with our ability to provide service to our customers, which could result in reduced sales and affect our operations and financial performance. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could adversely affect our business and the market price of our common stock. Pursuant to the rules adopted by the SEC under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and provide a management report on our internal control over financial reporting in all annual reports. This report contains, among other things, a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective and the disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. 19 Table of Contents The Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) provides a framework for companies to assess and improve their internal control systems. Auditing Standard No. 5 issued by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board provides the professional standards and related performance guidance for auditors to report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Management’s assessment of internal control over financial reporting requires management to make subjective judgments and some of the judgments will be in areas that may be open to interpretation. Therefore, management’s report on our internal control over financial reporting may be difficult to prepare, and our auditors may not agree with management’s assessment. If we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, management will not be able to assert its internal control over financial reporting is effective. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our auditors are unable to attest, if requested, that management’s report is fairly stated or they our auditors are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would have an adverse effect on our business and the market price of our common stock. Risks Particular To Our Industry The market for our services is new and highly uncertain. The market for communications services serving deaf and hard-of-hearing persons has grown rapidly in recent years and the number and variety of competitive services is significant. Maintaining FCC certification has a material impact on our financial results. Current barriers to market acceptance of these services include cost, reliability, functionality and ease of use. Based on these factors and competitive aspects of the market, we cannot be certain of initial or continuing market acceptance of our services. If the market for our services does not grow or grows slower than we currently anticipate, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Laws and regulations that impact our industry could materially adversely affect our business. As described elsewhere in “Risk Factors,” aspects of our relay business are subject to direct regulation and decisions by the FCC which could materially adversely affect our business. In addition, the carriers who supply us with network access are subject to regulation by the FCC and regulations that affect them could materially adversely affect our business. Our business could suffer significantly depending on the extent to which our activities or those of our customers or suppliers are regulated. In particular, the Declaratory Ruling of the Consumer and Governmental Affairs Bureau of the FCC issued on February 25, 2010, provides that VRS calls made by or to a VRS provider’s employee, or the employee of a provider’s subcontractor, are not eligible for compensation from the TRS Fund. This Declaratory Ruling will reduce our revenues in the future and has resulted in a restatement of our 2008 revenues by approximately $10.7 million. In addition, the FCC issued an order requiring relay service providers to provide appropriate call routing for emergency calls (“E911”), although we have taken significant efforts to comply with the elements of the E911 order and believe that we are within compliance, if the FCC determines that we have not fully complied with the order and if we are thereafter unable to comply with further requests by the FCC, we may be subject to materially adverse FCC action. Further, the FCC’s rules and regulations may restrict our ability to market our services or to contact our customers, which could materially adversely affect our revenues. Additionally, we are currently undergoing a regulatory investigation by the FCC, as well as the SEC and the grand jury, and we are aware of a Federal False Claims Act complaint by the DOJ. We entered into an interim Standstill Agreement with the FCC on March 8, 2010, pursuant to which we have acknowledged the FCC’s claim against us for reimbursement of previously distributed funds in the amount of approximately $18.5 million and have agreed to negotiate with the FCC to resolve all other matters relating to the FCC investigation. Notwithstanding our intention to resolve all governmental investigations during the standstill period under the interim Standstill Agreement, such investigations and suits could result in restrictions on our ability to participate in the reimbursement program through the TRS Fund and result in additional financial penalties. We have expended significant financial resources in connection with these governmental investigations and may be forced to spend additional amounts on compliance with any orders that are the result of such matters. The imposition of fines, restrictions on our ability to participate in reimbursement programs or the creation of compliance programs necessary to satisfy the FCC could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We currently do not collect sales or other taxes with respect to the sale of services or products in states and countries where we believe we are not required to do so. We do collect sales and other taxes in the state in which we have an office and may be required by law to do so. One or more jurisdictions have sought to impose sales other tax obligations on companies that engage in online commerce within their jurisdictions. A successful assertion by one or more jurisdictions that we should collect sales or other taxes on our products and services, or remit payment of sales and other taxes for prior periods, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 20 Table of Contents Any new legislation or regulation that may be adopted by the United States Congress to regulate the Internet, or the application of laws or regulations from jurisdictions whose laws do not currently apply to our business, could have a material adverse effect on our business. The steps taken by us to protect our intellectual property may not prove sufficient to prevent misappropriation of our technology or to deter independent third party development of similar technologies. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our technologies or intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. We also rely on certain technologies that we license from third parties and these third party technologies may not continue to be available to us on commercially attractive terms. The loss of the ability to use certain technology or intellectual property could require us to obtain the rights to use substitute technology, which could be more expense or offer lower quality or performance, and therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Third parties could claim infringement by us with respect to current or future technology. We expect that we and other participants in our markets will be increasingly subject to infringement claims as the number of services and competitors in our industry segment grows. Any such claim, whether meritorious or not, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, cause service or installation interruptions or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements might not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. As a result, any such claim could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Particular to Stock Price We no longer intend to file reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which will reduce the amount of publicly available information about us and negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock. We filed a notice of termination of registration under Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), on March 31, 2010. As a result, our obligations to file reports under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act with the Securities and Exchange Commission were suspended on such date and will terminate on June 29, 2010. We may be required to file reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission in the future under Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act, but we currently have no intention of filing any reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission in the future. In absence of filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, there may be limited publicly available information available about us, which will likely reduce the liquidity of our common stock and increase the risks of engaging in transactions in our common stock. In addition, as a result of no longer being registered under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act, we will be unable to raise capital through public offerings of our securities without additional filings. Our common stock is traded on the OTC Markets “pink sheets,” which has reduced the liquidity of our common stock and could cause our stock price to decrease and adversely affect our ability to raise capital in the future. Effective November 27, 2009, we voluntarily delisted our common stock from The NASDAQ Capital Market. Currently, quotations for sales of our common are published by the OTC Markets “pink sheets”. As a result of delisting from NASDAQ, our common stock may be subject to the so-called “penny stock” rules. The SEC has adopted regulations that define a “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price per share of less than $5.00, subject to certain exceptions, such as any securities listed on a national securities exchange. For any transaction involving a “penny stock,” unless exempt, the rules impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers, subject to certain exceptions. If our common stock is determined to be a “penny stock,” a broker-dealer may find it more difficult to trade our common stock and an investor may find it more difficult to acquire or dispose of our common stock on the secondary market. In the event that we decide to re-apply for listing our common stock on any exchange, there are several requirements that we must satisfy. We may not comply with all of these listing requirements, which would prevent the listing of our securities. The lack of a listing on an exchange adversely affects the liquidity and the price of our securities and could have a long-term adverse impact on our ability to raise future capital through a sale of shares of our securities. Our stock price, like that of many technology companies, has been and may continue to be volatile. We expect that the market price of our common stock will fluctuate as a result of variations in our quarterly operating results and other factors beyond our control. These fluctuations may be exaggerated if the trading volume of our common stock is low. In addition, due to the technology-intensive and emerging nature of our business, the market price of our common stock may rise and fall in response to a variety of factors, including: • announcements of technological or competitive developments; • acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or our competitors; • the gain or loss of a significant customer or order; 21 Table of Contents • changes in estimates of our financial performance or changes in recommendations by securities analysts regarding us or our industry; or • general market or economic conditions. This risk may be heightened because our industry is new and evolving, characterized by rapid technological change and susceptible to the introduction of new competing technologies or competitors. In addition, the deregistration of our common stock under the Exchange Act and the trading of our common stock on the OTC Markets “pink sheets” may exacerbate the volatility of our common stock. In addition, equity securities of many technology companies have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. These price and volume fluctuations often have been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. Volatility in the market price of our common stock could result in securities class action litigation. This type of litigation, regardless of the outcome, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. As mentioned elsewhere under “Risk Factors,” there has been increased volatility in the capital markets and a reduction in the liquidity of our common stock, and we cannot predict the effect such volatility or reduced liquidity, if it continues or increases, will have on our stock price. Ownership of our common stock is concentrated in a few holders who are in a position to control substantially all significant corporate transactions we may consider. As a result of the acquisitions of Verizon’s TRS division and HOVRS, and our recent financings, control of our capital stock is concentrated in Clearlake Capital Group, L.P. and its affiliates, who own in the aggregate, assuming all of the Company’s outstanding Series A and B Preferred Stock is converted into common stock as of June 9, 2010, approximately 94% of our outstanding shares of common stock. As a result of their stock ownership, these stockholders are in a position to control substantially all significant corporate transactions we may consider in the future. Shares of our preferred stock are subject to anti-dilution rights that could increase the concentration of the ownership of our common stock. Pursuant to our certificate of incorporation, our preferred stock has certain anti-dilution protections. Pursuant to these protections, the number of shares of common stock that the preferred stock may convert into will increase in the event that we issue stock at a price lower than the original issuance price (calculated on as-converted to common stock basis) of such preferred stock in certain circumstances. In particular, the conversion price of shares of our Series B preferred stock will be adjusted to a price equal to the per share consideration received if the consideration received is below the then applicable conversion price. If the number of shares of common stock into which our preferred stock may convert increases, the holders of the preferred stock will control an increased percentage of our voting stock and will be in an even greater position to control significant corporate actions. Our ability to issue additional shares of preferred stock and common stock in the future may be construed as having an anti-takeover effect. The issuance in the future of additional authorized shares of preferred stock or common stock, which our restated certificate of incorporation permits us to do, may have the effect of diluting the earnings per share and book value per share, as well as the stock ownership and voting rights, of the currently outstanding shares of our common stock. In addition, the existence of authorized, but unissued, shares of our preferred stock and common stock may be construed as having an anti-takeover effect. We could, subject to the board’s fiduciary duties and applicable law, issue such authorized shares to purchasers who might oppose a hostile takeover bid. Such a use of these additional authorized shares could render more difficult, or discourage, an attempt to acquire control of us through a transaction opposed by the board. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock. We have never paid or declared any cash dividends on our common stock or other securities and intend to retain any future earnings to finance the development and expansion of our business. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Unless we pay dividends, our stockholders will not be able to receive a return on their shares unless they sell them. Holders of our Series A and Series B Preferred Stock receive cumulative dividends. To the extent that such dividends are not paid in cash to the holders of Series A and Series B Preferred Stock, further dilution may occur to our holders of common stock upon the conversion of the accrued and unpaid dividends into shares of common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 22 Table of Contents 