Item 1A. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Related to Our Business Our 10 largest clients represented 48.4 % of our consolidated revenue in 2008 and the loss of any of these clients could cause a significant drop in our revenue. We depend on a limited number of large clients for a significant portion of our consolidated revenue. Our ten largest clients represented approximately 48.4% of our consolidated revenue during the year ended December 31, 2008, with Bank of Montreal representing approximately 16.0% of our 2008 consolidated revenue. A decrease in revenue from any of our significant clients for any reason, including a decrease in pricing or activity, or a decision either to utilize another service provider or to no longer outsource some or all of the services we provide, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated revenue. In addition, our ten largest clients in the Private Label Services segment and the Private Label Credit segment are the same, and any loss of such clients could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability generated by each of these segments. Loyalty Services. Loyalty Services represents 31.5% of total revenue. Our ten largest clients in this segment represented approximately 79.6% of our Loyalty Services revenue in 2008. Bank of Montreal and Canada Safeway represented approximately 42.9% and 11.0%, respectively, of this segment’s revenue for 2008. Our contract with Bank of Montreal expires in 2013, subject to automatic renewal at five-year intervals, and our contract with Canada Safeway expires in 2010. Epsilon Marketing Services. Epsilon Marketing Services represents 20.5% of total revenue. Our ten largest clients in this segment represented approximately 28.7% of our Epsilon Marketing Services revenue in 2008, of which 13.3% represent clients in the financial services industry. Private Label Services. Private Label Services represents 16.0% of total revenue. Our ten largest clients in this segment represented approximately 75.3% of our Private Label Services revenue for this segment in 2008. Limited Brands and its retail affiliates represented approximately 20.9% and Redcats represented approximately 11.5% of our revenue for this segment in 2008. Our contracts with Limited Brands and its retail affiliates expire in 2012, and our contract with Redcats expires in 2018. Private Label Credit. Private Label Credit represents 31.3% of total revenue. Our ten largest clients in this segment represented approximately 77.6% of our Private Label Credit revenue for this segment in 2008. Limited Brands and its retail affiliates represented approximately 21.5% and Redcats represented 11.9% of our revenue for this segment in 2008. Our contracts with Limited Brands expire in 2012 and our contract with Redcats expires in 2018. The markets for the services that we offer may fail to expand or may contract and this could negatively impact our growth and profitability. Our growth and continued profitability depend on acceptance of the services that we offer. Our clients may not continue to use loyalty and targeted marketing strategies. Changes in technology may enable merchants and retail companies to directly process transactions in a cost-efficient manner without the use of our services. Additionally, downturns in the economy or the performance of retailers may result in a decrease in the demand for our marketing strategies. Further, if customers make fewer purchases of our Private Label Services customers’ products and services, we will have fewer transactions to process, resulting in lower revenue. Any decrease in the demand for our services for the reasons discussed above or any other reasons could have a material adverse effect on our growth, revenue and operating results. 11 Table of Contents If we are unable to securitize our credit card receivables due to changes in the market, the unavailability of credit enhancements, an early amortization event or for other reasons, we would not be able to fund new credit card receivables, which would have a negative impact on our operations and earnings. Since January 1996, we have sold a majority of the credit card receivables originated by World Financial Network National Bank to WFN Credit Company, LLC and WFN Funding Company II, LLC, which in turn sold them to World Financial Network Credit Card Master Trust, World Financial Network Credit Card Master Note Trust and World Financial Network Credit Card Master Trust III (the “WFN Trusts”) as part of our securitization program. In September 2008, we initiated a securitization program for the credit card receivables originated by World Financial Capital Bank, selling them to World Financial Capital Credit Company, LLC, which in turn sold them to World Financial Capital Credit Card Master Note Trust (the “WFC Trust”). These securitization programs are a significant funding vehicle through which we finance World Financial Network National Bank’s and World Financial Capital Bank’s credit card receivables. If World Financial Network National Bank or World Financial Capital Bank were not able to regularly securitize the receivables it originates, our ability to fund new credit card receivables and to grow or even maintain our Private Label business would be materially impaired. World Financial Network National Bank’s and World Financial Capital Bank’s ability to effect securitization transactions is affected by the following factors, some of which are beyond our control: • conditions in the securities markets in general and the asset-backed securitization market in particular; • conformity of the quality of credit card receivables to rating agency requirements and changes in that quality or those requirements; and • our ability to fund required over-collateralizations or credit enhancements, which we routinely utilize in order to achieve better credit ratings, which lowers our borrowing costs. Beginning in the second half of 2007 and intensifying throughout 2008, conditions in the securities market in general and the asset-backed securitization market in particular deteriorated significantly. If these conditions persist, deteriorate further or recur in the future, neither World Financial Network National Bank nor World Financial Capital Bank may be able to securitize the receivables it originates on terms similar to those it has received historically, or at all. In particular, we have $652.8 million of asset-backed notes that will become due in 2009. In addition, the Company has approximately $2.6 billion in private conduit capacity of which $1.1 billion was outstanding at December 31, 2008 and coming due at various dates in 2009. Our ability to refinance these notes on favorable terms or at all will depend upon our ability to continue to securitize our receivables, which will depend upon the conditions in the securities market at the time, as well as the other factors described above. Once World Financial Network National Bank and World Financial Capital Bank securitize receivables, the agreement governing the transaction contains covenants that address the receivables’ performance and the continued solvency of the retailer where the underlying sales were generated. In the event such a covenant or other similar covenant is breached, an early amortization event could be declared, whereby the trustee for the securitization trust would retain World Financial Network National Bank’s or World Financial Capital Bank’s interest in the related receivables, along with the excess interest income that would normally be paid to World Financial Network National Bank or World Financial Capital Bank, until the securitization investors are fully repaid. The occurrence of an early amortization event would significantly limit, or even negate, our ability to securitize additional receivables. Recent government actions to stabilize credit markets and financial institutions may not be effective and could adversely affect our competitive position. The U.S. Government recently enacted legislation and created several programs to help stabilize credit markets and financial institutions and restore liquidity, including the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, the Federal Reserve Board’s Term Asset Backed Securities Loan Facility and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation’s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program. Additionally, the governments of many nations have announced similar measures for institutions in their respective countries. There is no assurance that these programs individually or collectively will have beneficial effects in the credit markets, will address credit 12 Table of Contents or liquidity issues of companies that participate in the programs or will reduce volatility or uncertainty in the financial markets. The failure of these programs to have their intended effects could have a material adverse effect on the financial markets, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. During the period that these programs are in place, we could temporarily benefit from the terms of the programs or from the conditions for participation, relative to other companies that do not participate in the programs we do or other companies could benefit from programs that we are not eligible to, or elect not to, participate in. To the extent that we participate in these programs or other similar programs, there is no assurance that such programs will remain available for sufficient periods of time or on acceptable terms to benefit us, and the expiration of such programs could have unintended adverse effects on us. Unprecedented levels of market volatility could adversely affect our ability to meet our liquidity needs. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for more than 12 months. In recent months, the volatility and disruption have reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for certain issuers. Historically, a large portion of our credit card receivables have been financed using public and private asset-backed securities transactions. Due to the market disruptions, the asset-backed securitization market has not been available at suitable volume and pricing levels. It is difficult to predict if, or when, asset-backed securitization markets will return to their historical capacity and pricing levels and there can be no assurance that such markets will continue to be a reliable source of financing for our bank subsidiaries. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, we would need to seek other sources of financing to meet our liquidity needs, including using our current credit facility or brokered certificates of deposit and/or by seeking other funding sources, including certain of the government announced programs, such as the Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility. However, under such extreme market conditions, there can be no assurance such agreements and other funding sources would be available or sufficient. Increases in net charge-offs beyond our current estimates could have a negative impact on our operating income and profitability. The primary risk associated with unsecured consumer lending is the risk of default or bankruptcy of the borrower, resulting in the borrower’s balance being charged-off as uncollectible. We rely principally on the customer’s creditworthiness for repayment of the loan and therefore have no other recourse for collection. We may not be able to successfully identify and evaluate the creditworthiness of cardholders to minimize delinquencies and losses. An increase in defaults or net charge-offs beyond historical levels will reduce the net spread available to us from the securitization master trust and could result in a reduction in finance charge income or a write-down of the interest-only strip and our retained interest in the securitization program represented in our consolidated balance sheets as due from securitization. General economic factors, such as the rate of inflation, unemployment levels and interest rates, may result in greater delinquencies that lead to greater credit losses. In addition to being affected by general economic conditions and the success of our collection and recovery efforts, our delinquency and net credit card receivable charge-off rates are affected by the credit risk of our credit card receivables and the average age of our various credit card account portfolios. The average age of our credit card receivables affects the stability of delinquency and loss rates of the portfolio. An older credit card portfolio generally drives a more stable performance in the portfolio. For 2008, our managed receivables net charge-off ratio was 7.3% compared to 5.8% and 5.0% for 2007 and 2006, respectively. Our pricing strategy may not offset the negative impact on profitability caused by increases in delinquencies and losses. Any material increases in delinquencies and losses beyond our current estimates could have a materially adverse impact on us and the value of our net retained interests in loans that we sell through securitizations. Changes in the amount of payments and defaults by cardholders on credit card balances may cause a decrease in the estimated value of our interest-only strips. The estimated fair value of our residual interest in our securitized credit card receivables, which we refer to as our interest-only strips, depends upon the anticipated cash flows of the related credit card receivables. A 13 Table of Contents significant factor affecting the anticipated cash flows is the rate at which the underlying principal of the securitized credit card receivables is reduced. Other assumptions used in estimating the value of the interest-only strips include estimated future credit losses and a discount rate commensurate with the risks involved. The rate of cardholder payments or defaults on credit card balances may be affected by a variety of economic factors, including interest rates and the availability of alternative financing, most of which are not within our control. A decrease in interest rates could cause cardholder payments to increase, thereby requiring a write down of the interest-only strips. If payments from cardholders or defaults by cardholders exceed our estimates, we may be required to decrease the estimated value of the interest-only strips through a charge against earnings. Interest rate increases could significantly reduce the amount we realize from the spread between the yield on our assets and our cost of funding. Interest rate risk affects us directly in our lending and borrowing activities. Our total interest incurred was approximately $230.5 million for 2008, which includes both on-and off-balance sheet transactions. Of this total, $79.2 million of the interest expense for 2008 was attributable to on-balance sheet indebtedness and the remainder was attributable to our securitized credit card receivables, which are financed off-balance sheet. We enter into derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps and treasury locks to mitigate our interest rate risk on a related financial instrument or to lock the interest rate on a portion of our variable debt. We do not enter into derivative or interest rate transactions for trading or other speculative purposes. At December 31, 2008, we had $6.3 billion of debt, including $3.9 billion of off-balance sheet debt from our securitization program. As of December 31, 2008 Fixed rate Variablerate Total (In millions) Off-balance sheet $ 1,675.0 $ 2,200.7 $ 3,875.7 On-balance sheet 1,362.2 1,053.9 2,416.1 Total $ 3,037.2 $ 3,254.6 $ 6,291.8 • At December 31, 2008, our fixed rate off-balance sheet debt was locked at a current effective interest rate of 4.8% through interest rate swap agreements. • At December 31, 2008, our fixed rate on-balance sheet debt was subject to fixed rates with a weighted average interest rate of 3.6%. The approach we use to quantify interest rate risk is a sensitivity analysis, which we believe best reflects the risk inherent in our business. This approach calculates the impact on pre-tax income from an instantaneous and sustained increase in interest rates of 1.0%. In 2008, a 1.0% increase in interest rates would have resulted in a decrease to fiscal year pre-tax income of approximately $30.9 million. Conversely, a corresponding decrease in interest rates would have resulted in a comparable increase to pre-tax income. Our use of this methodology to quantify the market risk of financial instruments should not be construed as an endorsement of its accuracy or the appropriateness of the related assumptions. We expect growth in our Private Label Credit and Private Label Services segments to result from new and acquired credit card programs whose credit card receivable performance could result in increased portfolio losses and negatively impact our net retained interests in loans securitized. We expect an important source of growth in our credit card operations to come from the acquisition of existing credit card programs and initiating credit card programs with retailers who do not currently offer a private label or co-branded retail card. Although we believe our pricing and models for determining credit risk are designed to evaluate the credit risk of existing programs and the credit risk we are willing to assume for acquired and start-up programs, we cannot assure you that the loss experience on acquired and start-up programs will be consistent with our more established programs. The failure to successfully underwrite these credit card 14 Table of Contents programs may result in defaults greater than our expectations and could have a materially adverse impact on us and the value of our net retained interests in receivables securitized. As a result of our significant Canadian operations, our reported financial information will be affected by fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. and Canadian dollars. A significant portion of our Loyalty Services segment revenue is derived from our operations in Canada, which transact business in Canadian dollars. Therefore, our reported financial information from quarter-to-quarter will be affected by changes in the exchange rate between the U.S. and Canadian dollars over the relevant periods. We do not hedge any of our exchange rate exposure in our Canadian operations. For the year ended December 31, 2008, a 10% decline of the Canadian dollar would have resulted in a decrease in pre-tax income of approximately $18.7 million. The Canadian dollar has been trading at historically high rates against the U.S. dollar in recent periods. If the Canadian dollar were to decline in value in subsequent periods, our operating results would be negatively impacted and we would not have the benefit of the favorable revenue impact we have experienced in recent periods as a result of the strength of the Canadian dollar. Our level of indebtedness could materially adversely affect our ability to generate sufficient cash to repay our outstanding debt, our ability to react to changes in our business and our ability to incur additional indebtedness to fund future needs. We have a high level of indebtedness, which requires a high level of interest and principal payments. Subject to the limits contained in our senior credit facility, our note purchase agreement, our indenture governing the convertible senior notes and our other debt instruments, we may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness from time to time to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other purposes. If we do so, the risks related to our level of indebtedness could intensify. Our level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness. Our higher level of indebtedness, combined with our other financial obligations and contractual commitments, could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations under any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default under the indenture governing our convertible senior notes and the agreements governing our other indebtedness; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other purposes; • increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate; • limit our ability to borrow additional funds, or to dispose of assets to raise funds, if needed, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other corporate purposes; • reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures; • cause any refinancing of our indebtedness to be at higher interest rates and require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations; and • prevent us from raising the funds necessary to repurchase all notes tendered to us upon the occurrence of certain changes of control, which would constitute a default under the indenture governing the convertible senior notes. 15 Table of Contents The hedging activity related to our securitization trusts and our floating rate indebtedness subjects us to off-balance sheet counterparty risks relating to the creditworthiness of the commercial banks with whom we enter into hedging transactions. In order to execute hedging strategies related to the securitization trusts and our floating rate indebtedness, we have entered into interest rate derivative contracts with commercial banks. These banks are otherwise known as counterparties. It is our policy to enter into such contracts with counterparties that are deemed to be creditworthy. However, if macro- or micro-economic events were to negatively impact these banks, the banks might not be able to honor their obligations either to us or to the securitization trusts and we might suffer a direct loss or a loss related to our residual interest in the securitization trusts. Proposed changes to accounting standards could have a significant impact on the Company, the WFN Trusts, the WFC Trust or our bank subsidiaries. In September 2008, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued proposed amendments to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 140 “Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities” (“SFAS No. 140”) and Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 46R (“FIN No. 46R”). The proposed amendments would eliminate Qualifying Special Purpose Entities (QSPEs) from the guidance in SFAS No. 140. Currently, a significant portion of the credit card receivables originated by World Financial Network National Bank or World Financial Capital Bank and ultimately sold to the WFN Trusts or the WFC Trust, which are QSPEs, as part of our securitization program are not consolidated on the balance sheet of World Financial Network National Bank, World Financial Capital Bank or any of their affiliates, including the Company. One current consequence of this accounting treatment is that neither World Financial Network National Bank, World Financial Capital Bank nor any of their affiliates, including the Company, are required to include this portion of the receivables as an asset when calculating the banks’ minimum regulatory capital ratios or allowances for loan losses. The amendments to SFAS No. 140 and FIN No. 46R, if adopted as proposed, may have a significant impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements as the Company may lose sales treatment for assets previously sold to the WFN Trusts and the WFC Trust as well as for future securitizations, which could result in all or some portion of the receivables being consolidated on the balance sheet of World Financial Network National Bank, World Financial Capital Bank or their affiliates, including the Company. It is not clear whether the proposed amendments to SFAS No. 140 and FIN No. 46R ultimately will be adopted by the FASB and if adopted what form they will take, how they will be implemented, how regulatory authorities will respond or how our bank subsidiaries or the Company may be affected. It is possible that these revisions will have an adverse impact on our bank subsidiaries or the Company. Litigation against Blackstone Capital Partners V L.P. is costly and could be disruptive to our business. We are currently pursuing legal action against Blackstone Capital Partners V L.P. in connection with the termination of the Merger Agreement, dated as of May 17, 2007, among us, Aladdin Solutions, Inc. (f/k/a Aladdin Holdco, Inc.) and Aladdin Merger Sub, Inc., pursuant to which we were to be acquired by affiliates of The Blackstone Group L.P. Further, we may be exposed to additional litigation claims relating to the proposed Blackstone merger and the termination of the related merger agreement. Regardless of the outcome, we have and may continue to incur substantial expenses in connection with such litigation. In addition, the potential of such litigation to divert the time and attention of our management from our day-to-day business is substantial. As with any litigation, we cannot predict with certainty the outcome of the proceedings, but the costs and time expended for such litigation could have a material negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition and could adversely affect our stock price. We rely on third party vendors to provide products and services. Our profitability could be adversely impacted if they fail to fulfill their obligations. The failure of our suppliers to deliver products and services in sufficient quantities and in a timely manner could adversely affect our business. If our significant vendors were unable to renew our existing contracts we 16 Table of Contents might not be able to replace the related product or service at the same cost which would negatively impact our profitability. If actual redemptions by AIR MILES Reward Program collectors are greater than expected, or if the costs related to redemption of AIR MILES reward miles increase, our profitability could be adversely affected. A portion of our revenue is based on our estimate of the number of AIR MILES reward miles that will go unused by the collector base. The percentage of unredeemed AIR MILES reward miles is known as “breakage” in the loyalty industry. AIR MILES reward miles currently do not expire. We experience breakage when AIR MILES reward miles are not redeemed by collectors for a number of reasons, including: • loss of interest in the program or sponsors; • collectors moving out of the program area; and • death of a collector. If actual redemptions are greater than our estimates, our profitability could be adversely affected due to the cost of the excess redemptions. Our AIR MILES Reward Program also exposes us to risks arising from potentially increasing reward costs. Our profitability could be adversely affected if costs related to redemption of AIR MILES reward miles increase. A 10% increase in the cost of redemptions would have resulted in a decrease in pre-tax income of $35.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The loss of our most active AIR MILES Reward Program collectors could negatively affect our growth and profitability. Our most active AIR MILES Reward Program collectors drive a disproportionately large percentage of our AIR MILES Reward Program revenue. The loss of a significant portion of these collectors, for any reason, could impact our ability to generate significant revenue from sponsors. The continued attractiveness of our loyalty and rewards programs will depend in large part on our ability to remain affiliated with sponsors that are desirable to consumers and to offer rewards that are both attainable and attractive. If we fail to identify suitable acquisition candidates, or to integrate the businesses we acquire, it could negatively affect our business. Historically, we have engaged in a significant number of acquisitions, and those acquisitions have contributed to our growth in revenue and profitability. We believe that acquisitions will continue to be a key component of our growth strategy. However, we may not be able to continue to locate and secure acquisition candidates on terms and conditions that are acceptable to us. If we are unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates, our growth could be impaired. There are numerous risks associated with acquisitions, including: • the difficulty and expense that we incur in connection with the acquisition; • adverse accounting consequences of conforming the acquired company’s accounting policies to ours; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • the potential loss of customers or key employees of the acquired company; • the impact on our financial condition due to the timing of the acquisition or the failure to meet operating expectations of the acquired business; and • the assumption of unknown liabilities of the acquired company. 17 Table of Contents Acquisitions that we make may not be successfully integrated into our ongoing operations and we may not achieve any expected cost savings or other synergies from any acquisition. If the operations of an acquired business do not meet expectations, our profitability and cash flows may be impaired and we may be required to restructure the acquired business or write-off the value of some or all of the assets of the acquired business. Legislation relating to consumer privacy may affect our ability to collect data that we use in providing our loyalty and marketing services, which, among other things, could negatively affect our ability to satisfy our clients’ needs. The enactment of new or amended legislation or industry regulations arising from public concern over consumer privacy issues could have a material adverse impact on our marketing services. Legislation or industry regulations regarding consumer privacy issues could place restrictions upon the collection, sharing and use of information that is currently legally available, which could materially increase our cost of collecting some data. These types of legislation or industry regulations could also prohibit us from collecting or disseminating certain types of data, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our clients’ requirements and our profitability and cash flow. In addition to the United States and Canadian regulations discussed below, we have expanded our marketing services through the acquisition of companies formed and operating in foreign jurisdictions that may be subject to additional or more stringent legislation and regulations regarding consumer privacy. In the United States, federal and state laws such as the federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the Fair Credit Reporting Act, as amended by the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003, make it more difficult to collect, share and use information that has previously been legally available and may increase our costs of collecting some data. Regulations under these acts give cardholders the ability to “opt out” of having information generated by their credit card purchases shared with other affiliated and unaffiliated parties or the public. Our ability to gather, share and utilize this data will be adversely affected if a significant percentage of the consumers whose purchasing behavior we track elect to “opt out,” thereby precluding us and our affiliates from using their data. In the United States, the federal Do-Not-Call Implementation Act makes it more difficult to telephonically communicate with prospective and existing customers. Similar measures were implemented in Canada beginning September 1, 2008. Regulations in both the United States and Canada give consumers the ability to “opt out,” through a national do-not-call registry and state do-not-call registries of having telephone solicitations placed to them by companies that do not have an existing business relationship with the consumer. In addition, regulations require companies to maintain an internal do-not-call list for those who do not want the companies to solicit them through telemarketing. These regulations could limit our ability to provide services and information to our clients. Failure to comply with these regulations could have a negative impact on our reputation and subject us to significant penalties. In the United States, the federal Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003 restricts our ability to send commercial electronic mail messages, the primary purpose of which is advertising or promoting a commercial product or service, to our customers and prospective customers. The act requires that a commercial electronic mail message provide the customers with an opportunity to opt-out from receiving future commercial electronic mail messages from the sender. Failure to comply with the terms of this act could have a negative impact on our reputation and subject us to significant penalties. In Canada, the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act requires an organization to obtain a consumer’s consent to collect, use or disclose personal information. Under this act, consumer personal information may be used only for the purposes for which it was collected. We allow our customers to voluntarily “opt out” from receiving either one or both promotional and marketing mail or promotional and marketing electronic mail. Heightened consumer awareness of, and concern about, privacy may result in customers “opting out” at higher rates than they have historically. This would mean that a reduced number of customers would receive bonus and promotional offers and therefore those customers may collect fewer AIR MILES reward miles. 18 Table of Contents Failure to safeguard our databases and consumer privacy could affect our reputation among our clients and their customers, and may expose us to legal claims. As part of our AIR MILES Reward Program, targeted marketing services programs and credit card programs, we maintain marketing databases containing information on consumers’ account transactions. Although we have extensive security procedures, our databases may be subject to unauthorized access. If we experience a security breach, the integrity of our databases could be affected. Security and privacy concerns may cause consumers to resist providing the personal data necessary to support our profiling capability. The use of our loyalty, marketing services or credit card programs could decline if any compromise of security occurred. In addition, any unauthorized release of customer information or any public perception that we released consumer information without authorization, could subject us to legal claims from consumers or regulatory enforcement actions and adversely affect our client relationships. Loss of data center capacity, interruption of telecommunication links, computer viruses or inability to utilize proprietary software of third party vendors could affect our ability to timely meet the needs of our clients and their customers. Our ability to protect our data centers against damage or inoperability from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, computer viruses and other disasters is critical. In order to provide many of our services, we must be able to store, retrieve, process and manage large amounts of data and periodically expand and upgrade our database capabilities. Any damage to our data centers, any failure of our telecommunication links that interrupts our operations or any impairment of our ability to use our software or the proprietary software of third party vendors, including impairments due to virus attacks, could adversely affect our ability to meet our clients’ needs and their confidence in utilizing us for future services. Current and proposed regulation and legislation relating to our retail credit services could limit our business activities, product offerings and fees charged. Various federal and state laws and regulations significantly limit the retail credit services activities in which we are permitted to engage. Such laws and regulations, among other things, limit the fees and other charges that we can impose on consumers, limit or proscribe certain other terms of our products and services, require specified disclosures to consumers, or require that we maintain certain licenses, qualifications and minimum capital levels. In some cases, the precise application of these statutes and regulations is not clear. In addition, numerous legislative and regulatory proposals are advanced each year which, if adopted, could have a materially adverse effect on our profitability or further restrict the manner in which we conduct our activities. In December 2008, the Federal Reserve Board promulgated final rules amending both Regulation AA (Unfair or Deceptive Acts or Practices) and Regulation Z (Truth in Lending Act). These rules, which become effective July 1, 2010, act to limit or modify certain credit card practices and require increased disclosures to consumers. The credit card practices addressed by the rules include, but are not limited to, restrictions on the application of rate increases to existing and new balances, payment allocation, default pricing and two-cycle billing. The failure to comply with, or adverse changes in, the laws or regulations to which our business is subject, or adverse changes in their interpretation, could have a materially adverse effect on our ability to collect our receivables and generate fees on the receivables, thereby adversely affecting our profitability. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights may harm our competitive position, and litigation to protect our intellectual property rights or defend against third party allegations of infringement may be costly. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our trademarks or other intellectual property rights, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. The actions we take to protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights may not be adequate. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. We may not be able to prevent infringement of our intellectual property rights or misappropriation of our proprietary information. Any infringement or misappropriation could harm any 19 Table of Contents competitive advantage we currently derive or may derive from our proprietary rights. Third parties may also assert infringement claims against us. Any claims and any resulting litigation could subject us to significant liability for damages. An adverse determination in any litigation of this type could require us to design around a third party’s patent or to license alternative technology from another party. In addition, litigation is time consuming and expensive to defend and could result in the diversion of our time and resources. Any claims from third parties may also result in limitations on our ability to use the intellectual property subject to these claims. Airline or travel industry disruptions, such as an airline insolvency, could negatively affect the AIR MILES Reward Program, our revenues and profitability. Air travel is one of the appeals of the AIR MILES Reward Program to collectors. As a result of airline insolvencies and restructurings, we may experience service disruptions that prevent us from fulfilling collectors’ flight redemption requests. If one of our existing airline suppliers sharply reduces its fleet capacity and route network, we may not be able to satisfy our collectors’ demands for airline tickets. Tickets from other airlines, if available, could be more expensive than a comparable ticket under our current supply agreements with existing suppliers, and the routes offered by the other airlines may be inadequate, inconvenient or undesirable to the redeeming collectors. As a result, we may experience higher air travel redemption costs and collector satisfaction with the AIR MILES Reward Program might be adversely affected. As a result of airline or travel industry disruptions, political instability, terrorist acts or war, some collectors could determine that air travel is too dangerous or burdensome. Consequently, collectors might forego redeeming AIR MILES reward miles for air travel and therefore might not participate in the AIR MILES Reward Program to the extent they previously did, which could adversely affect our revenue from the program. Our bank subsidiaries are subject to extensive federal regulation that may require us to make capital contributions to them, and that may restrict the ability of these subsidiaries to make cash available to us. Federal and state laws and regulations extensively regulate the operations of our credit card services bank subsidiary, World Financial Network National Bank, as well as our industrial bank, World Financial Capital Bank. Many of these laws and regulations are intended to maintain the safety and soundness of World Financial Network National Bank and World Financial Capital Bank, and they impose significant restraints on them to which other non-regulated entities are not subject. As a national bank, World Financial Network National Bank is subject to overlapping supervision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, or the OCC, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or the FDIC. As an industrial bank, World Financial Capital Bank is subject to overlapping supervision by the FDIC and the State of Utah. World Financial Network National Bank and World Financial Capital Bank must maintain minimum amounts of regulatory capital. If World Financial Network National Bank and World Financial Capital Bank do not meet these capital requirements, their respective regulators have broad discretion to institute a number of corrective actions that could have a direct material effect on our financial statements. World Financial Capital Bank, as an institution insured by the FDIC, must maintain certain capital ratios, paid-in capital minimums and adequate allowances for loan losses. World Financial Network National Bank must meet specific guidelines that involve measures and ratios of its assets, liabilities, regulatory capital, interest rate exposure and certain off-balance sheet items under regulatory accounting standards, among other factors. In addition, as part of an acquisition in 2003 by World Financial Network National Bank, which required approval by the OCC, the OCC required World Financial Network National Bank to enter into an operating agreement with it and a capital adequacy and liquidity maintenance agreement with us. The operating agreement requires World Financial Network National Bank to continue to operate in a manner consistent with its current practices, regulatory guidelines, and applicable law, including those related to affiliate transactions, maintenance of capital and corporate governance. If either World Financial Network National Bank or World Financial Capital Bank were to fail to meet any of the capital requirements to which it is subject, we may be required to provide them with additional capital, which could impair our ability to service our indebtedness. 20 Table of Contents Before World Financial Network National Bank can pay dividends to us, it must obtain prior regulatory approval if all dividends declared in any calendar year would exceed its net profits for that year plus its retained net profits for the preceding two calendar years, less any transfers to surplus. In addition, World Financial Network National Bank may pay dividends only to the extent that retained net profits, including the portion transferred to surplus, exceed bad debts. Moreover, to pay any dividend, World Financial Network National Bank must maintain adequate capital above regulatory guidelines. Further, if a regulatory authority believes that World Financial Network National Bank is engaged in or is about to engage in an unsafe or unsound banking practice, which, depending on its financial condition, could include the payment of dividends, that regulatory authority may require, after notice and hearing, that World Financial Network National Bank cease and desist from the unsafe practice. To pay any dividend, World Financial Capital Bank must also maintain adequate capital above regulatory guidelines. Accordingly, neither World Financial Network National Bank nor World Financial Capital Bank may be able to make any of its cash or other assets available to us, including servicing our indebtedness. If our bank subsidiaries fail to meet certain criteria, we may become subject to regulation under the Bank Holding Company Act, which would force us to cease all of our non-banking activities and thus cause a drastic reduction in our profits and revenue. If either of our depository institution subsidiaries failed to meet the criteria for the exemption from the definition of “bank” in the Bank Holding Company Act under which it operates (which exemptions are described below), and if we did not divest such depository institution upon such an occurrence, we would become subject to regulation under the Bank Holding Company Act. This would require us to cease certain of our activities that are not permissible for companies that are subject to regulation under the Bank Holding Company Act. One of our depository institution subsidiaries, World Financial Network National Bank, is a limited-purpose national credit card bank located in Ohio. World Financial Network National Bank will not be a “bank” as defined under the Bank Holding Company Act so long as it remains in compliance with the following requirements: • it engages only in credit card operations; • it does not accept demand deposits or deposits that the depositor may withdraw by check or similar means for payment to third parties; • it does not accept any savings or time deposits of less than $100,000, except for deposits pledged as collateral for its extensions of credit; • it maintains only one office that accepts deposits; and • it does not engage in the business of making commercial loans. Our other depository institution subsidiary, World Financial Capital Bank, is a Utah industrial bank that is authorized to do business by the State of Utah and the FDIC. World Financial Capital Bank will not be a “bank” as defined under the Bank Holding Company Act so long as it remains an industrial bank in compliance with the following requirements: • it is an institution organized under the laws of a state which, on March 5, 1987, had in effect or had under consideration in such state’s legislature a statute which required or would require such institution to obtain insurance under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act; and • it does not accept demand deposits that the depositor may withdraw by check or similar means for payment to third parties. If our industrial bank fails to meet the requirements of the FDIC or State of Utah, we may be subject to termination of our industrial bank. Our industrial bank, World Financial Capital Bank, is authorized to do business by the State of Utah and the FDIC. World Financial Capital Bank is subject to capital ratios and paid-in capital minimums and must maintain adequate allowances for loan losses. If World Financial Capital Bank fails to meet the requirements of the FDIC or the State of Utah, it may be subject to termination as an industrial bank. 21 Table of Contents Competition in our industries is intense and we expect it to intensify. The markets for our products and services are highly competitive and we expect competition to intensify in each of those markets. Many of our current competitors have longer operating histories, stronger brand names and greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. Certain of our segments also compete against in-house staffs of our current clients and others or internally developed products and services by our current clients and others. For example, as a result of increasing competitors in the loyalty market, including from Aeroplan, Air Canada’s frequent flyer program, we may experience greater competition in attracting and retaining sponsors in our AIR MILES Reward Program. Our ability to generate significant revenue from clients and partners will depend on our ability to differentiate ourselves through the products and services we provide and the attractiveness of our programs to consumers. We may not be able to compete successfully against our current and potential competitors. In 2008, our Private Label Services segment derived approximately 97.1% of its revenue from servicing cardholder accounts for the Private Label Credit segment. If the Private Label Credit segment suffered a significant client loss, our revenue and profitability attributable to the Private Label Services segment could be materially and adversely affected. Our Private Label Services segment performs card processing and servicing activities for cardholder accounts generated by our Private Label Credit segment. During 2008, our Private Label Services segment derived $371.6 million, or 97.1%, of its revenues, from these services for our Private Label Credit segment. The financial performance of our Private Label Services segment, therefore, is linked to the activities of our Private Label Credit segment. If the Private Label Credit segment were to lose a significant client, our revenue and profitability attributable to the Private Label Services segment could be materially and adversely affected. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents, Delaware law and the fundamental change purchase rights of our convertible senior notes may discourage or prevent a change of control, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could affect our stock price adversely and prevent or delay change of control transactions or attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Delaware law, as well as provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and debt instruments, could discourage unsolicited proposals to acquire us, even though such proposals may be beneficial to our stockholders. These include: • a board of directors classified into three classes of directors with the directors of each class having staggered, three-year terms; • our board’s authority to issue shares of preferred stock without further stockholder approval; • provisions of Delaware law providing that directors serving on staggered boards of directors, such as ours, may be removed only for cause; and • fundamental change purchase rights of our convertible senior notes, which allow such noteholders to require us to purchase all or a portion of their convertible senior notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change, as well as provisions requiring an increase to the conversion rate for conversions in connection with make-whole fundamental changes. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These and other provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by our then-current board of directors, including a merger, tender offer or proxy contest 22 Table of Contents involving our company. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors could cause the market price of our common stock to decline or delay or prevent our stockholders from receiving a premium over the market price of our common stock that they might otherwise receive. Future sales of our common stock, or the perception that future sales could occur, may adversely affect our common stock price. As of February 20, 2009, we had an aggregate of 101,606,866 shares of our common stock authorized but unissued and not reserved for specific purposes. In general, we may issue all of these shares without any action or approval by our stockholders. We have reserved 21,003,000 shares of our common stock for issuance under our employee stock purchase plan and our long-term incentive plans, of which 7,085,810 shares are issuable upon vesting of restricted stock awards, restricted stock units, and upon exercise of options granted as of February 20, 2009, including options to purchase approximately 3,504,337 shares exercisable as of February 20, 2009 or that will become exercisable within 60 days after February 20, 2009. We have reserved for issuance 1,500,000 shares of our common stock, 952,880 of which remain issuable, under our 401(k) and Retirement Savings Plan. In addition, we may pursue acquisitions of competitors and related businesses and may issue shares of our common stock in connection with these acquisitions. Sales or issuances of a substantial number of shares of common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock, and any sale or issuance of our common stock will dilute the percentage ownership held by our stockholders. We do not intend to pay cash dividends. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any future determination to pay cash dividends will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will be dependent upon our financial condition, operating results, capital requirements and other factors that our board deems relevant. Conversion of the convertible senior notes may dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders. The conversion of some or all of the convertible senior notes may dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of any of our common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the conversion of the convertible senior notes into shares of our common stock or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 23 Table of Contents 