ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below and elsewhere in this report and in other documents we file with the SEC are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. Our future operating results are difficult to predict and our stock price may continue to be volatile. As a result of a variety of factors discussed in this report, our revenues for a particular quarter are difficult to predict. Our revenue and operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. The primary factors that may affect our results of operations include the following: • commercial acceptance of our SLMS products; • fluctuations in demand for network access products; 13 Table of Contents • the timing and size of orders from customers; • the ability of our customers to finance their purchase of our products as well as their own operations; • new product introductions, enhancements or announcements by our competitors; • our ability to develop, introduce and ship new products and product enhancements that meet customer requirements in a timely manner; • changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; • the ability of our company and our contract manufacturers to attain and maintain production volumes and quality levels for our products; • our ability to obtain sufficient supplies of sole or limited source components; • increases in the prices of the components we purchase, or quality problems associated with these components; • unanticipated changes in regulatory requirements which may require us to redesign portions of our products; • changes in accounting rules, such as recording expenses for employee stock option grants; • integrating and operating any acquired businesses; • our ability to achieve targeted cost reductions; • how well we execute on our strategy and operating plans; and • general economic conditions as well as those specific to the communications, internet and related industries. Any of the foregoing factors, or any other factors discussed elsewhere herein, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition that could adversely affect our stock price. In addition, public stock markets have experienced, and may in the future experience, extreme price and trading volume volatility, particularly in the technology sectors of the market. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to or disproportionately impacted by the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, if our average market capitalization falls below the carrying value of our assets for an extended period of time such as in 2008 and 2009, this may indicate that the fair value of our net assets is below their carrying value, and may result in recording impairment charges. We have incurred significant losses to date and expect that we may continue to incur losses in the foreseeable future. If we fail to generate sufficient revenue to achieve or sustain profitability, our stock price could decline. We have incurred significant losses to date and expect that we may continue to incur losses in the foreseeable future. Our net losses for 2009 and 2008 were $10.0 million and $92.5 million, respectively, and we had an accumulated deficit of $1,015.6 million at December 31, 2009. We have significant fixed expenses and expect that we will continue to incur substantial manufacturing, research and product development, sales and marketing, customer support, administrative and other expenses in connection with the ongoing development of our business. In addition, we may be required to spend more on research and product development than originally budgeted to respond to industry trends. We may also incur significant new costs related to acquisitions and the integration of new technologies and other acquisitions that may occur in the future. We may not be able to adequately control costs and expenses or achieve or maintain adequate operating margins. As a result, our ability to achieve and sustain profitability will depend on our ability to generate and sustain substantially higher revenue while maintaining reasonable cost and expense levels. If we fail to generate sufficient revenue to achieve or sustain profitability, we will continue to incur substantial operating losses and our stock price could decline. 14 Table of Contents We have significant debt obligations, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $28.7 million of total debt, of which $10.4 million was current and $18.3 million was long-term. Our debt obligations could materially and adversely affect us in a number of ways, including: • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes; • limiting our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business or market conditions; • requiring us to use a significant portion of any future cash flow from operations to repay or service the debt, thereby reducing the amount of cash available for other purposes; • making us more highly leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; and • making us more vulnerable to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions and increases in interest rates. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our debt or to meet our working capital and capital expenditure requirements. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to borrow sufficient funds to service our debt, due to borrowing base restrictions or otherwise, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures or obtain additional financing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to engage in any of these actions on reasonable terms, if at all. If we are unable to obtain additional capital to fund our existing and future operations, we may be required to reduce the scope of our planned product development, and marketing and sales efforts, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The development and marketing of new products, and the expansion of our direct sales operations and associated support personnel requires a significant commitment of resources. We may continue to incur significant operating losses or expend significant amounts of capital if: • the market for our products develops more slowly than anticipated; • we fail to establish market share or generate revenue at anticipated levels; • our capital expenditure forecasts change or prove inaccurate; or • we fail to respond to unforeseen challenges or take advantage of unanticipated opportunities. As a result, we may need to raise substantial additional capital. Additional capital, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. For example, U.S. credit markets have recently experienced significant dislocations and liquidity disruptions which have caused the spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. These circumstances have materially impacted liquidity in debt markets, making financing terms for borrowers less attractive and resulting in the general unavailability of many forms of debt financing. Continued uncertainty in credit markets may negatively impact our ability to access debt financing or to refinance existing indebtedness in the future on favorable terms, or at all. If additional capital is raised through the issuance of debt securities or other debt financing, the terms of such debt may include covenants, restrictions and financial ratios that may restrict our ability to operate our business. The recent events in the U.S. credit markets have also had an adverse effect on other U.S. financial markets and have adversely affected the trading prices of equity securities of many U.S. companies, including Zhone, which may make it more difficult or costly for us to raise capital through the issuance of common stock, preferred stock or other equity securities. If we elect to raise equity capital, this may be dilutive to existing stockholders and could reduce the trading price of our 15 Table of Contents common stock. If we are unable to obtain additional capital or are required to obtain additional capital on terms that are not favorable to us, we may be required to reduce the scope of our planned product development and sales and marketing efforts beyond the reductions that we have previously taken, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our lack of liquid funds and other sources of financing may limit our ability to maintain our existing operations, grow our business and compete effectively. Our continued losses reduced our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments in 2008 and 2009. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $21.8 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments and $10.0 million outstanding under our bank lending facility. In order to meet our liquidity needs and finance our capital expenditures and working capital needs for our business, we may be required to sell assets, or to borrow on potentially unfavorable terms. We may be unable to sell assets, or access additional indebtedness to meet these needs. As a result, we may become unable to pay our ordinary expenses, including our debt service, on a timely basis. Our current lack of liquidity could harm us by: • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic conditions in our industry or the economy in general; • requiring substantial amounts of cash to be used for debt servicing, rather than other purposes, including operations; • limiting our ability to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry; and • influencing investor and customer perceptions about our financial stability and limiting our ability to obtain financing or acquire customers. The recent downturn in the equity and debt markets generally may make it more difficult for us to obtain financing through the issuance of equity or debt securities in the capital markets. We cannot be certain that additional financing, if needed, will be available on acceptable terms or at all. If we cannot raise any necessary additional financing on acceptable terms, we may not be able to fund our business expansion, take advantage of future opportunities, meet our existing debt obligations or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated capital requirements, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, if we issue additional equity or debt securities, stockholders may experience additional dilution or the new equity securities may have rights, preference or privileges senior to those of existing holders of our common stock. We face a number of risks related to unfavorable economic and market conditions and severe tightening in the global credit markets. Global market and economic conditions over the past two years have been unprecedented and challenging, with most major economies experiencing tighter credit conditions and an economic recession. Continued concerns about the systemic impact of potential long-term and widespread recession, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, and the global housing and mortgage markets have contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for western and emerging economies. In the second half of 2008 and during 2009, federal government interventions in the U.S. financial system led to increased market uncertainty and instability in both U.S. and international capital and credit markets. These conditions, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have contributed to volatility of unprecedented levels. Continued unfavorable economic and market conditions globally could impact our business in a number of ways, including: Potential deferment of purchases and orders by customers: Uncertainty about current and future global economic conditions may cause consumers, businesses and governments to defer purchases in response to significant decreases in their revenues, tighter credit, decreased cash availability and declining consumer confidence. Accordingly, future demand for our products could differ materially from our current expectations. 16 Table of Contents Customers’ inability to obtain financing to make purchases from Zhone and/or maintain their business: Some of our customers require substantial financing in order to finance their business operations, including capital expenditures on new equipment and equipment upgrades, and make purchases from Zhone. The inability of these customers to access the capital needed to finance purchases of our products and meet their payment obligations to us could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. If the financial crisis results in insolvencies for our customers, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Negative impact from increased financial pressures on third-party dealers, distributors and retailers: We make sales in certain regions through third-party dealers, distributors and retailers. These third parties may be impacted by the significant decrease in available credit that has resulted from the current financial crisis. If credit pressures or other financial difficulties result in insolvency for these third parties and we are unable to successfully transition end customers to purchase our products from other third parties, or from us directly, it could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Negative impact from increased financial pressures on key suppliers: Our ability to meet customers’ demands depends, in part, on our ability to obtain timely and adequate delivery of quality materials, parts and components from our suppliers. Certain of our components are available only from a single source or limited sources. If certain key suppliers were to become capacity constrained or insolvent as a result of the financial crisis, it could result in a reduction or interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of supplies and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, credit constraints of key suppliers could result in accelerated payment of accounts payable by Zhone, impacting our cash flow. If the economic, market and geopolitical conditions in the United States and the rest of the world do not improve, or if they continue to deteriorate, we may experience material adverse impacts on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our common stock may be delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market, which could negatively impact the price of our common stock and our ability to access the capital markets. On June 11, 2008, we received a letter from The Nasdaq Stock Market, or Nasdaq, indicating that, for the last 30 consecutive business days preceding the date of the letter, the bid price of our common stock had closed below the $1.00 minimum per share bid price required for continued inclusion on The Nasdaq Global Market under Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5). In accordance with Marketplace Rule 4450(e)(2), we were given 180 calendar days from the date of the Nasdaq letter, or until December 8, 2008, to regain compliance with the minimum bid price rule. Nasdaq extended the temporary suspension of the minimum bid price rule on several occasions, and on July 13, 2009, we received a letter from Nasdaq indicating that the suspension of the rule would continue through September 25, 2009. On September 10, 2009, we voluntarily filed a transfer application to transfer the listing of our common stock from The Nasdaq Global Market to The Nasdaq Capital Market. Nasdaq approved the transfer application on September 23, 2009, and the transfer became effective at the opening of the market on September 28, 2009. Companies listed on The Nasdaq Capital Market must meet certain financial requirements and adhere to Nasdaq’s corporate governance standards. As of the date of our transfer application, we met the financial requirements and other criteria for continued listing on The Nasdaq Capital Market, except for the $1.00 minimum per share bid price requirement. As a result of the listing transfer, Nasdaq granted us an additional 180-day period until March 29, 2010 to comply with the minimum bid price rule. Our stock price has not closed above $1.00 since the date of the receipt of the original letter from Nasdaq. On March 11, 2010, we filed a Certificate of Amendment with the Delaware Secretary of State to amend our Certificate of Incorporation to effect a reverse stock split at an exchange ratio of one-for-five, which we effected in order to gain compliance with Nasdaq’s $1.00 minimum per share bid price requirement. To regain compliance, however, the closing bid price of our common stock must be at or above $1.00 per share for a 17 Table of Contents minimum of 10 consecutive business days. Nasdaq may, in its discretion, require us to maintain a bid price for a period in excess of 10 consecutive business days, but generally no more than 20 consecutive business days, before determining that we have demonstrated an ability to maintain long-term compliance. While this reverse stock split is intended to increase the trading price of the common stock above the $1.00 minimum bid price, there can be no assurance that the market price per post-split share will exceed or remain in excess of the minimum for a sufficient period of time to enable us to timely regain compliance with Nasdaq rules. If Nasdaq is not satisfied with the trading price of our common stock as of March 29, 2010, Nasdaq may provide written notification to us that our common stock will be delisted. If that were to occur, we may appeal Nasdaq’s delisting determination to a Nasdaq Listing Qualification Panel. The long-term efficacy of the reverse stock split in maintaining compliance with Nasdaq’s minimum bid price requirement is uncertain. While the short-term result of a reverse stock split can be reasonably predicted, the long-term consequences are more difficult to determine. The price of our common stock will likely be affected by our performance and by general market and economic conditions that cannot be predicted or evaluated by the Board of Directors at this time. Accordingly, even if the reverse stock split is successful in regaining compliance with Nasdaq’s minimum bid price requirement by the March 29, 2010 deadline and we meet the financial requirements and other criteria needed to maintain our Nasdaq listing, there can be no assurance that the aggregate market value of our common stock will be the same or greater after the reverse stock split than it would have been without ever effecting a reverse stock split. On March 2, 2010, we received a further notice of deficiency from Nasdaq indicating that we no longer comply with the independent audit committee requirements for continued listing on The Nasdaq Capital Market. Specifically, Nasdaq Listing Rule 5605 requires that the audit committee be comprised of at least three independent directors. On February 12, 2010, Steven Levy resigned from Zhone’s Board of Directors. The resignation reduced the audit committee from three independent directors to two, resulting in non-compliance with Nasdaq’s audit committee requirement. In accordance with Nasdaq Listing Rule 5605, Nasdaq has requested that we provide evidence of compliance on or before the earlier of our next annual shareholders’ meeting or February 12, 2011 (or, if our next annual shareholders’ meeting is held before August 11, 2010, then no later than August 11, 2010). We plan to conduct a thorough recruitment and evaluation process to find a suitable replacement for Mr. Levy prior to the end of this cure period. In the event we do not regain compliance with Nasdaq’s audit committee requirements prior to the end of the cure period, Nasdaq will provide written notice to us that our common stock will be delisted. If that were to occur, we may appeal Nasdaq’s delisting determination to a Nasdaq Listing Qualification Panel. Delisting from The Nasdaq Capital Market could have an adverse effect on our business and on the trading of our common stock. If a delisting of our common stock were to occur, our common stock would trade on the OTC Bulletin Board or on the “pink sheets” maintained by the National Quotation Bureau, Inc. Such alternatives are generally considered to be less efficient markets, and our stock price, as well as the liquidity of our common stock, may be adversely impacted as a result. Delisting from The Nasdaq Capital Market could also have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by suppliers and employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. If demand for our SLMS products does not develop, then our results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. Our future revenue depends significantly on our ability to successfully develop, enhance and market our SLMS products to the network service provider market. Most network service providers have made substantial investments in their current infrastructure, and they may elect to remain with their current architectures or to adopt new architectures, such as SLMS, in limited stages or over extended periods of time. A decision by a customer to purchase our SLMS products will involve a significant capital investment. We must convince our service provider customers that they will achieve substantial benefits by deploying our products for future 18 Table of Contents upgrades or expansions. We do not know whether a viable market for our SLMS products will develop or be sustainable. If this market does not develop or develops more slowly than we expect, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be seriously harmed. We depend upon the development of new products and enhancements to existing products, and if we fail to predict and respond to emerging technological trends and customers’ changing needs, our operating results and market share may suffer. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, changes in end-user requirements, frequent new product introductions and changes in communications offerings from network service provider customers. Our future success depends on our ability to anticipate or adapt to such changes and to offer, on a timely and cost-effective basis, products that meet changing customer demands and industry standards. We may not have sufficient resources to successfully and accurately anticipate customers’ changing needs and technological trends, manage long development cycles or develop, introduce and market new products and enhancements. The process of developing new technology is complex and uncertain, and if we fail to develop new products or enhancements to existing products on a timely and cost-effective basis, or if our new products or enhancements fail to achieve market acceptance, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Because our products are complex and are deployed in complex environments, our products may have defects that we discover only after full deployment by our customers, which could seriously harm our business. We produce highly complex products that incorporate leading-edge technology, including both hardware and software. Software typically contains defects or programming flaws that can unexpectedly interfere with expected operations. In addition, our products are complex and are designed to be deployed in large quantities across complex networks. Because of the nature of these products, they can only be fully tested when completely deployed in large networks with high amounts of traffic, and there is no assurance that our pre-shipment testing programs will be adequate to detect all defects. As a result, our customers may discover errors or defects in our hardware or software, or our products may not operate as expected, after they have been fully deployed by our customers. If we are unable to cure a product defect, we could experience damage to our reputation, reduced customer satisfaction, loss of existing customers and failure to attract new customers, failure to achieve market acceptance, reduced sales opportunities, loss of revenue and market share, increased service and warranty costs, diversion of development resources, legal actions by our customers, and increased insurance costs. Defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our products could also result in financial or other damages to our customers. Our customers could seek damages for related losses from us, which could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. A product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time consuming and costly. The occurrence of any of these problems would seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. A shortage of adequate component supply or manufacturing capacity could increase our costs or cause a delay in our ability to fulfill orders, and our failure to estimate customer demand properly may result in excess or obsolete component inventories that could adversely affect our gross margins. Occasionally, we may experience a supply shortage, or a delay in receiving, certain component parts as a result of strong demand for the component parts and/or capacity constraints or other problems experienced by suppliers. If shortages or delays persist, the price of these components may increase, or the components may not be available at all, and we may also encounter shortages if we do not accurately anticipate our needs. Conversely, we may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build new products in a timely manner in the quantities or configurations needed. Accordingly, our revenue and gross margins could suffer until other sources can be developed. Our operating results would also be adversely affected if, anticipating greater demand than actually develops, we commit to the purchase of more components than we 19 Table of Contents need. Furthermore, as a result of binding price or purchase commitments with suppliers, we may be obligated to purchase components at prices that are higher than those available in the current market. In the event that we become committed to purchase components at prices in excess of the current market price when the components are actually used, our gross margins could decrease. We rely on contract manufacturers for a portion of our manufacturing requirements. We rely on contract manufacturers to perform a portion of the manufacturing operations for our products. These contract manufacturers build product for other companies, including our competitors. In addition, we do not have contracts in place with some of these providers and may not be able to effectively manage those relationships. We cannot be certain that our contract manufacturers will be able to fill our orders in a timely manner. We face a number of risks associated with this dependence on contract manufacturers including reduced control over delivery schedules, the potential lack of adequate capacity during periods of excess demand, poor manufacturing yields and high costs, quality assurance, increases in prices, and the potential misappropriation of our intellectual property. We have experienced in the past, and may experience in the future, problems with our contract manufacturers, such as inferior quality, insufficient quantities and late delivery of products. We depend on a limited source of suppliers for several key components. If we are unable to obtain these components on a timely basis, we will be unable to meet our customers’ product delivery requirements, which would harm our business. We currently purchase several key components from a limited number of suppliers. If any of our limited source of suppliers become insolvent, cease business or experience capacity constraints, work stoppages or any other reduction or disruption in output, they may be unable to meet our delivery schedules. Our suppliers may enter into exclusive arrangements with our competitors, be acquired by our competitors, stop selling their products or components to us at commercially reasonable prices, refuse to sell their products or components to us at any price or be unable to obtain or have difficulty obtaining components for their products from their suppliers. If we do not receive critical components from our limited source of suppliers in a timely manner, we will be unable to meet our customers’ product delivery requirements. Any failure to meet a customer’s delivery requirements could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition and could materially damage customer relationships. Our target customer base is concentrated, and the loss of one or more of our customers could harm our business. The target customers for our products are network service providers that operate voice, data and video communications networks. There are a limited number of potential customers in our target market. During 2009, Emirates Telecommunications Corporation accounted for 19% of net revenue and we expect that a significant portion of our future revenue will depend on sales of our products to a limited number of customers. Any failure of one or more customers to purchase products from us for any reason, including any downturn in their businesses, would seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Industry consolidation may lead to increased competition and may harm our operating results. There has been a trend toward industry consolidation in the communications equipment market for several years. We expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies are acquired or are unable to continue operations. We believe that industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as sole-source vendors for customers. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, rapid consolidation could result in a decrease in the number of customers we serve. Loss of a major customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents We are exposed to the credit risk of some of our customers and to credit exposures in weakened markets, which could result in material losses. The current financial crisis, industry and economic conditions have weakened the financial position of some of our customers and their ability to access capital to finance their business operations, including capital expenditures. To sell to some of these customers, we may be required to assume incremental risks of uncollectible accounts or to extend credit or credit support. While we monitor these situations carefully and attempt to take appropriate measures to protect ourselves, including factoring credit arrangements to financial institutions, it is possible that we may have to defer revenue until cash is collected or write-down or write-off uncollectible accounts. Such write-downs or write-offs, if large, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The market we serve is highly competitive and we may not be able to compete successfully. Competition in the communications equipment market is intense. This market is characterized by rapid change, converging technologies and a migration to networking solutions that offer superior advantages. We are aware of many companies in related markets that address particular aspects of the features and functions that our products provide. Currently, our primary competitors include Alcatel-Lucent, Calix, Huawei, and Occam Networks, among others. We also may face competition from other large communications equipment companies or other companies that may enter our market in the future. In addition, a number of companies have introduced products that address the same network needs that our products address, both domestically and abroad. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and greater financial, technical, sales and marketing resources than we do and may be able to undertake more extensive marketing efforts, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and provide more customer financing than we can. In particular, we are encountering price-focused competitors from Asia, especially China, which places pressure on us to reduce our prices. If our competitors offer deep discounts on certain products, we may need to lower prices or offer other favorable terms in order to compete successfully. Moreover, our competitors may foresee the course of market developments more accurately than we do and could develop new technologies that render our products less valuable or obsolete. In our markets, principal competitive factors include: • product performance; • interoperability with existing products; • scalability and upgradeability; • conformance to standards; • breadth of services; • reliability; • ease of installation and use; • geographic footprints for products; • ability to provide customer financing; • price; • technical support and customer service; and • brand recognition. If we are unable to compete successfully against our current and future competitors, we may have difficulty obtaining or retaining customers, and we could experience price reductions, order cancellations, increased expenses and reduced gross margins, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents Our success largely depends on our ability to retain and recruit key personnel, and any failure to do so would harm our ability to meet key objectives. Our future success depends upon the continued services of our executive officers and our ability to identify, attract and retain highly skilled technical, managerial, sales and marketing personnel who have critical industry experience and relationships that we rely on to build our business, including Morteza Ejabat, our co-founder, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Kirk Misaka, our Chief Financial Officer. The loss of the services of any of our key employees, including Messrs. Ejabat and Misaka, could delay the development and production of our products and negatively impact our ability to maintain customer relationships, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any strategic acquisitions or investments we make could disrupt our operations and harm our operating results. As of December 31, 2009, we had acquired twelve companies or product lines since we were founded in 1999. Further, we may acquire additional businesses, products or technologies in the future. On an ongoing basis, we may evaluate acquisitions of, or investments in, complementary companies, products or technologies to supplement our internal growth. Also, in the future, we may encounter difficulties identifying and acquiring suitable acquisition candidates on reasonable terms. If we do complete future acquisitions, we could: • issue stock that would dilute our current stockholders’ percentage ownership; • consume a substantial portion of our cash resources; • incur substantial debt; • assume liabilities; • increase our ongoing operating expenses and level of fixed costs; • record goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing and potential periodic impairment charges; • incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets; • incur large and immediate write-offs; and • become subject to litigation. Any acquisitions or investments that we make in the future will involve numerous risks, including: • difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired companies; • unanticipated costs; • diversion of management’s time and attention away from normal daily operations of the business and the challenges of managing larger and more widespread operations resulting from acquisitions; • difficulties in entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; • insufficient revenues to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions; and • potential loss of key employees, customers, distributors, vendors and other business partners of the companies we acquire following and continuing after announcement of acquisition plans. Mergers and acquisitions of high-technology companies are inherently risky and subject to many factors outside of our control, and we cannot be certain that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. We do not know 22 Table of Contents whether we will be able to successfully integrate the businesses, products, technologies or personnel that we might acquire in the future or that any strategic investments we make will meet our financial or other investment objectives. Any failure to do so could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Sales to communications service providers are especially volatile, and weakness in sales orders from this industry may harm our operating results and financial condition. Sales activity in the service provider industry depends upon the stage of completion of expanding network infrastructures, the availability of funding, and the extent to which service providers are affected by regulatory, economic and business conditions in the country of operations. Although some service providers may be increasing capital expenditures over the depressed levels that have prevailed over the last few years, weakness in orders from this industry could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Slowdowns in the general economy, overcapacity, changes in the service provider market, regulatory developments and constraints on capital availability have had a material adverse effect on many of our service provider customers, with many of these customers going out of business or substantially reducing their expansion plans. These conditions have materially harmed our business and operating results, and we expect that some or all of these conditions may continue for the foreseeable future. Finally, service provider customers typically have longer implementation cycles; require a broader range of service including design services; demand that vendors take on a larger share of risks; often require acceptance provisions, which can lead to a delay in revenue recognition; and expect financing from vendors. All these factors can add further risk to business conducted with service providers. Decreased effectiveness of share-based compensation could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain employees. We have historically used stock options as a key component of our employee compensation program in order to align the interests of our employees with the interests of our stockholders, encourage employee retention and provide competitive compensation and benefit packages. If the trading price of our common stock declines, this would reduce the value of our share-based compensation to our present employees and could affect our ability to retain them. In addition, in recent periods, some of our employee stock options have had exercise prices in excess of our stock price, which reduces their value to employees and could affect our ability to retain present, or attract prospective employees. To address these issues, in the fourth quarter of 2008, we conducted an exchange offer, or the Exchange Offer, in which eligible employees, officers and directors of Zhone could exchange outstanding options to purchase shares of Zhone common stock previously granted under our equity incentive compensation plans with an exercise price per share equal to or greater than $1.75 on a one-for-one basis for the grant of new options to purchase shares of Zhone common stock. Options to acquire approximately 2.9 million shares of Zhone common stock were tendered in the Exchange Offer for new options with an exercise price of $0.50 per share, as adjusted for the one-for-five reverse stock split effected on March 11, 2010. Difficulties relating to obtaining stockholder approval of equity compensation plans could also make it harder or more expensive for us to grant share-based payments to employees in the future. Due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes or other factors in a specific country or region could harm our future revenue, costs and expenses and financial condition. We currently have international operations consisting of sales and technical support teams in various locations around the world. We expect to continue expanding our international operations in the future. The successful management and expansion of our international operations requires significant human effort and the commitment of substantial financial resources. Further, our international operations may be subject to certain risks and challenges that could harm our operating results, including: • trade protection measures and other regulatory requirements which may affect our ability to import or export our products into or from various countries; 23 Table of Contents • political considerations that affect service provider and government spending patterns; • differing technology standards or customer requirements; • developing and customizing our products for foreign countries; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • longer accounts receivable collection cycles and financial instability of customers; • difficulties and excessive costs for staffing and managing foreign operations; • potentially adverse tax consequences; and • changes in a country’s or region’s political and economic conditions. Any of these factors could harm our existing international operations and business or impair our ability to continue expanding into international markets. Compliance or the failure to comply with current and future environmental regulations could cause us significant expense. We are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign environmental regulations. If we fail to comply with any present and future regulations, we could be subject to future liabilities, the suspension of production or a prohibition on the sale of our products. In addition, such regulations could require us to incur other significant expenses to comply with environmental regulations, including expenses associated with the redesign of any non-compliant product. From time to time new regulations are enacted, and it is difficult to anticipate how such regulations will be implemented and enforced. For example, in 2003 the European Union enacted the Restriction on the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (RoHS) and the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (WEEE), for implementation in European Union member states. We are aware of similar legislation that is currently in force or is being considered in the United States, as well as other countries, such as Japan and China. Our failure to comply with any of such regulatory requirements or contractual obligations could result in our being liable for costs, fines, penalties and third-party claims, and could jeopardize our ability to conduct business in countries in the jurisdictions where these regulations apply. Adverse resolution of litigation may harm our operating results or financial condition. We are a party to various lawsuits and claims in the normal course of our business. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy, and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. An unfavorable resolution of a particular lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. For additional information regarding litigation in which we are involved, see Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” contained in Part I of this report. Our intellectual property rights may prove difficult to protect and enforce. We generally rely on a combination of copyrights, patents, trademarks and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. We also enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants and corporate partners, and control access to and distribution of our proprietary information. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology. Monitoring unauthorized use of our technology is difficult, and we do not know whether the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as extensively as in the United States. We cannot assure you that our pending, or any future, patent applications will be granted, that any existing or future patents will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented, or that any existing or future 24 Table of Contents patents will be enforceable. While we are not dependent on any individual patents, if we are unable to protect our proprietary rights, we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the substantial expense, time and effort required to create the innovative products. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims that are costly and time consuming to defend and could limit our ability to use some technologies in the future. Third parties have in the past and may in the future assert claims or initiate litigation related to patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related standards that are relevant to us. The asserted claims or initiated litigation can include claims against us or our manufacturers, suppliers or customers alleging infringement of their proprietary rights with respect to our existing or future products, or components of those products. We have received correspondence from companies claiming that many of our products are using technology covered by or related to the intellectual property rights of these companies and inviting us to discuss licensing arrangements for the use of the technology. Regardless of the merit of these claims, intellectual property litigation can be time consuming and costly, and result in the diversion of technical and management personnel. Any such litigation could force us to stop selling, incorporating or using our products that include the challenged intellectual property, or redesign those products that use the technology. In addition, if a party accuses us of infringing upon its proprietary rights, we may have to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we are unsuccessful in any such litigation, we could be subject to significant liability for damages and loss of our proprietary rights. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on the availability of third party licenses. Many of our products are designed to include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. It may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various elements of the technology used to develop these products. We cannot assure you that our existing and future third-party licenses will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Our inability to maintain or obtain any third-party license required to sell or develop our products and product enhancements could require us to obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards, or at greater cost. The long and variable sales cycles for our products may cause revenue and operating results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. The target customers for our products have substantial and complex networks that they traditionally expand in large increments on a periodic basis. Accordingly, our marketing efforts are focused primarily on prospective customers that may purchase our products as part of a large-scale network deployment. Our target customers typically require a lengthy evaluation, testing and product qualification process. Throughout this process, we are often required to spend considerable time and incur significant expense educating and providing information to prospective customers about the uses and features of our products. Even after a company makes the final decision to purchase our products, it may deploy our products over extended periods of time. The timing of deployment of our products varies widely, and depends on a number of factors, including our customers’ skill sets, geographic density of potential subscribers, the degree of configuration and integration required to deploy our products, and our customers’ ability to finance their purchase of our products as well as their operations. As a result of any of these factors, our revenue and operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. The communications industry is subject to government regulations, which could harm our business. The FCC has jurisdiction over the entire communications industry in the United States and, as a result, our existing and future products and our customers’ products are subject to FCC rules and regulations. Changes to current FCC rules and regulations and future FCC rules and regulations could negatively affect our business. The uncertainty associated with future FCC decisions may cause network service providers to delay decisions 25 Table of Contents regarding their capital expenditures for equipment for broadband services. In addition, international regulatory bodies establish standards that may govern our products in foreign markets. Changes to or future domestic and international regulatory requirements could result in postponements or cancellations of customer orders for our products and services, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, we cannot be certain that we will be successful in obtaining or maintaining regulatory approvals that may, in the future, be required to operate our business. The ability of unaffiliated stockholders to influence key transactions, including changes of control, may be limited by significant insider ownership, provisions of our charter documents and provisions of Delaware law. At December 31, 2009, our executive officers, directors and entities affiliated with them beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 26% of our outstanding common stock. These stockholders, if acting together, will be able to influence substantially all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. Circumstances may arise in which the interests of these stockholders could conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. These stockholders could delay or prevent a change in control of our company even if such a transaction would be beneficial to our other stockholders. In addition, provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to certain stockholders. Our business and operations are especially subject to the risks of earthquakes and other natural catastrophic events. Our corporate headquarters, including a significant portion of our research and development operations, are located in Northern California, a region known for seismic activity. Additionally, some of our facilities, including our manufacturing facilities, are located near geographic areas that have experienced hurricanes in the past. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, hurricane, fire, flood or other catastrophic event, could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations, and as a result, our future operating results could be materially and adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 