ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business faces significant risks. These risks include those described below and may include additional risks of which we are not currently aware or which we currently do not believe material. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected and such events or circumstances could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. These risks should be read in conjunction with the other information set forth in this report as well as in our current reports on Form 8-K. Risks Related to Our Business We are at an early stage of development as a company and we do not have, and may never have, any products that generate significant revenues. We are at an early stage of development as a biopharmaceutical company, and we do not have any commercial products that generate significant revenues. Our existing product candidates will require extensive clinical evaluation, regulatory review and marketing efforts and substantial investment before they could provide us with any revenues. Our efforts may not lead to commercially successful drugs for a number of reasons, including: • our product candidates may not prove to be safe and effective in clinical trials; • we may not be able to obtain regulatory approvals for our product candidates, or approvals may take longer than anticipated, or approvals may be narrower than we seek; • we may not have adequate financial or other resources to complete the development and commercialization of our product candidates; or • any products that are approved may not be accepted in the marketplace. Other than Flolan®, which we expect to commence marketing and distributing in the second quarter of 2006, we do not expect to be able to market any of our product candidates for a number of years. If we are unable to develop, receive approval for, or successfully commercialize any of our product candidates, we will be unable to generate significant revenues. If our development programs are delayed, we may have to raise additional capital or reduce or cease our operations. We have a history of operating losses and we may never become profitable. We have experienced significant operating losses since our inception in 1996. At December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of $239.2 million. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, we had losses from continuing operations of $64.0 million, $59.0 million and $44.4 million, respectively. We do not expect that research and development revenue, which was $7.0 million, $6.6 million and $1.0 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, or revenue received from our marketing and distribution of Flolan® will become sufficient for us to achieve profitability. We have funded our operations principally from the sale of our equity securities. We expect to continue to incur substantial additional operating losses for the next several years as we pursue our clinical trials, research and development efforts and commercialization of our product candidates and Flolan®. To become profitable, we, either alone or with our collaborators, must successfully develop, manufacture and market our product candidates, or continue to identify, develop, acquire, manufacture and market other new product candidates. We may never have any significant revenues or become profitable. If we fail to obtain additional financing, we may be unable to complete the development and commercialization of our product candidates or continue our research and development programs. Our operations have consumed substantial amounts of cash since inception. To date, our sources of cash have been primarily limited to the sale of our equity securities. We expect to continue to spend substantial amounts on research and development, including amounts spent on conducting clinical trials for our product candidates, manufacturing clinical supplies, preparing for commencement of our marketing and distribution of 22 Table of Contents Flolan® and launch of our product candidates and expanding our discovery research programs. In 2005, our operations consumed approximately $4.4 million of cash per month, compared to $4.0 million of cash per month in 2004. This rate of cash consumption would have increased by an average of $0.6 million and $0.5 million per month in 2005 and 2004, respectively, had research and development funding not been received. We expect that our monthly cash used by operations will continue to increase for the next several years. Based on current spending projections, we believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and investments are sufficient to fund operations through at least the end of 2007. We may elect or be required to raise additional capital to complete the development and commercialization of our current product candidates. If we are unable to raise additional capital when required or on acceptable terms, we may have to significantly delay, scale back or discontinue one or more of our drug development or discovery research programs or our commercial development activities. We also may be required to: • seek collaborators for our product candidates at an earlier stage than otherwise would be desirable and on terms that are less favorable than might otherwise be available; and • relinquish, license or otherwise dispose of rights to technologies, product candidates or products that we would otherwise seek to develop or commercialize ourselves on terms that are less favorable than might otherwise be available. We may experience delays in our clinical development programs that could adversely affect our financial position and our commercial prospects. With the exception of ARIES-1, we do not know when our current clinical trials will be completed, if at all. We also cannot accurately predict when other planned clinical trials will begin or be completed. Many factors affect patient enrollment, including the size of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the trial, competing clinical trials and other drugs approved for the conditions we are investigating. Other companies are conducting clinical trials and have announced plans for future trials that are seeking or likely to seek patients with the same diseases as those we are studying. Competition for patients in some cardiovascular disease trials is particularly intense because of the limited number of leading specialist physicians and the geographic concentration of major clinical centers. A number of factors may affect the pace of enrollment of our planned Phase 3 trial of darusentan in patients with resistant hypertension, including the relatively small number of patients who meet the strict definition of resistant hypertension as compared to other types of hypertension and other trials which may seek to enroll patients that would otherwise be eligible to participate in our trial, such as the Phase 2 trial being conducted by Encysive Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in patients with resistant hypertension and the Phase 3 clinical trial being conducted by the Speedel Group of a once daily oral ERA in patients with diabetic renal disease. In addition, the entry criteria for one of our expected Phase 3 trials of darusentan are different from the entry criteria used in our Phase 2b trial and will further limit the number of patients eligible to participate in such trial. As a result of the numerous factors which can affect the pace of progress of clinical trials, our trials may take longer to enroll patients than we anticipate, if they can be completed at all. Delays in patient enrollment in the trials may increase our costs and slow our product development and approval process. Our product development costs will also increase if we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than planned. If other companies’ product candidates show favorable results, we may conduct additional clinical trials. Any delays in completing our clinical trials or any need to conduct additional clinical trials will delay our ability to seek approval and potentially generate revenue from product sales, and we may have insufficient capital resources to support our operations. Even if we do have sufficient capital resources, our ability to become profitable will be delayed. In addition, we may experience delays in closing out our clinical trials and analyzing clinical trial data after the patient treatment phase of a trial has been completed. This is of particular concern with large, international trials such as ARIES-1 and our planned Phase 3 trials of darusentan. It is also possible that we will be required to conduct additional trials beyond those currently envisioned, due to changing regulatory requirements or in response to the results of other clinical trials. Such additional trials could substantially 23 Table of Contents delay the possible launch of our products, adversely affecting our financial position and increasing the risk inherent in our programs. Adverse events in our clinical trials may force us to stop development of our product candidates or prevent regulatory approval of our product candidates. Our product candidates may produce serious adverse events in humans. These adverse events could cause us to interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials of our product candidates and could result in the FDA or other regulatory authorities denying approval of our product candidates for any or all targeted conditions. An independent data safety monitoring board, institutional review board (IRB), the FDA, other regulatory authorities or we may suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time. We cannot assure you that any of our product candidates will be safe for human use. Our applications for regulatory approval could be delayed or denied due to problems with studies conducted before we in-licensed our product candidates. The product candidates we are currently developing, ambrisentan and darusentan, are in-licensed from another pharmaceutical company. Many of the preclinical studies and some of the clinical studies on these product candidates were conducted by other companies before we in-licensed the product candidates. In addition, the studies were conducted when regulatory requirements were different from today. We would incur unanticipated costs and experience delays if we were required to repeat some or all of those studies. Even if the previous studies are acceptable to regulatory authorities, we may have to spend additional time analyzing and presenting the results of the studies. Problems with or safety concerns relating to the previous studies, including prior clinical studies of our product candidates in indications other than PAH and resistant hypertension, could cause our regulatory applications to be delayed or rejected, particularly if we are required to conduct additional clinical studies. If our product candidates do not meet safety or efficacy endpoints in clinical evaluations, they will not receive regulatory approval and we will be unable to market them. Other than Flolan®, which we expect to market and distribute beginning in the second quarter of 2006, our current product candidates, ambrisentan and darusentan, are in clinical development and have not received regulatory approval from the FDA or any foreign regulatory authority. The regulatory approval process typically is extremely expensive, takes many years and the timing of any approval cannot be accurately predicted, if approval is granted at all. If we fail to obtain regulatory approval for our current or future product candidates, we will be unable to market and sell such products and therefore may never be profitable. As part of the regulatory approval process, we must conduct preclinical studies and clinical trials for each product candidate to demonstrate safety and efficacy. The number and design of preclinical studies and clinical trials that will be required varies depending on the product candidate, the condition being evaluated, the trial results and regulations applicable to any particular product candidate. Prior clinical trial program designs and results are not necessarily predictive of future clinical trial designs or results. Top line results may not be confirmed upon full analysis of the detailed results of a trial. Product candidates in later stages of clinical trials may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy despite having progressed through initial clinical trials, as was the case with our discontinued product candidate, enoximone capsules. A number of other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have suffered significant setbacks in advanced hypertension clinical trials, even after achieving positive results in earlier trials. In prior clinical trials of certain anti-hypertensive product candidates, including our recent Phase 2b trial of darusentan, positive placebo effects were observed. There can be no assurance that we will not observe significant placebo effects in connection with our current trials of ambrisentan or our planned trials of darusentan. If our product candidates fail to show a clinically significant benefit compared to placebo, they will not be approved for 24 Table of Contents marketing. In addition, it is possible that our product candidates will not be approved for marketing in the United States or markets outside of the United States if they fail to show a clinically significant benefit compared to one or more active comparator drugs. We cannot assure you that the data collected from the preclinical studies and clinical trials of our product candidates will be sufficient to support FDA or other regulatory approval. In addition, the continuation of a particular study after review by an independent data safety monitoring board does not necessarily indicate that our product candidate will achieve the clinical endpoint or prove to be safe. There can be no assurance that our Phase 3 clinical development program for darusentan will be acceptable to the FDA, EMEA or other similar agencies for regulatory approval of the compound. We are developing darusentan for a novel indication and there is no clear precedent established for the clinical development or the regulatory requirements for approvability of this drug. In October 2005, we participated in an End-of-Phase 2 meeting with the FDA regarding our proposed Phase 3 clinical development program. Since that time, we have continued discussions with the FDA regarding future development of darusentan. We expect to initiate the first of our pivotal Phase 3 clinical trials in the second quarter of 2006 and a second pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial in the second half of 2006. Over the next several months, we also expect to continue discussions regarding our Phase 3 clinical development program for darusentan with the FDA and begin discussions with the European Medicines Agency (EMEA). It is possible that these discussions could lead to the need to add additional Phase 3 or Phase 4 clinical trials to the program as a condition of approval. Even if the data collected from the preclinical studies and clinical trials of darusentan, including our planned Phase 3 trials, is positive, it may not be sufficient to support FDA, EMEA or other regulatory approval. In addition, we may elect or be required to modify our Phase 3 clinical development plan. Any decision to modify the development plan could delay the development of, and increase the cost of developing, darusentan. Our Phase 3 clinical trial designs for darusentan differ from the design of our prior Phase 2b trial of darusentan. We have designed two pivotal trials of darusentan in patients with resistant hypertension. The designs of these clinical trials differ from the design of our prior Phase 2b trial of darusentan in patients with resistant hypertension in material respects. Accordingly, the results of prior studies of darusentan in hypertension, including our Phase 2b study of darusentan in patients with resistant hypertension, are not necessarily predictive of future clinical trial results, including the results of our Phase 3 studies of darusentan. In particular, we expect that one of the two pivotal trials of darusentan will evaluate the placebo-corrected change in systolic blood pressure in patients who have resistant hypertension despite treatment with full doses of four anti-hypertensive medications, one of which is a diuretic. Our Phase 2b clinical trial of darusentan evaluated the placebo-corrected change in systolic blood pressure in patients who have resistant hypertension despite treatment with full doses of three anti-hypertensive medications, one of which was a diuretic. There can be no assurance that darusentan will be effective compared to placebo in reducing the systolic blood pressure of patients on full doses of four anti-hypertensive medications or that darusentan will exhibit similar or greater efficacy or safety in such a patient population as compared to the patient population studied in our Phase 2b trial. In addition, we expect that the second pivotal Phase 3 trial of darusentan will evaluate the efficacy and safety of darusentan against placebo and an active comparator drug in patients who have resistant hypertension despite treatment with full doses of three anti-hypertensive medications, one of which is a diuretic. Although the primary endpoint of this trial is nearly identical to the primary endpoint of our Phase 2b trial of darusentan, we have not previously tested darusentan against an active comparator drug and there can be no assurance that darusentan will exhibit equal or greater efficacy or safety than an active comparator drug in this trial. There can be no assurance that the EMEA or other regulatory agencies will agree with the design of this 25 Table of Contents trial, including the active comparator drug, guanfacine, we intend to use in the trial. In addition, there can be no assurance that the FDA, EMEA or other regulatory agencies will approve darusentan if it does not show superior efficacy or safety to one or more active comparator compounds even if it demonstrates efficacy that is superior to placebo. Even if our products meet safety and efficacy endpoints in clinical trials, regulatory authorities may not approve them or we may face post-approval problems that require withdrawal of our products from the market. The FDA, EMEA and other regulatory agencies can delay, limit or deny approval for many reasons, including: • a product candidate may not be safe or effective; • the risk profile of a product candidate (e.g., teratogenicity) may outweigh the potential or perceived benefits of the product candidate; • the manufacturing processes or facilities we have selected may not meet the applicable requirements; and • changes in their approval policies or adoption of new regulations may require additional work. Any delay in, or failure to receive or maintain, approval for any of our products could prevent us from ever generating meaningful revenues or achieving profitability. Our product candidates may not be approved even if they achieve their endpoints in clinical trials. Regulatory agencies, including the FDA, or their advisors may disagree with our trial design and our interpretations of data from preclinical studies and clinical trials. Regulatory agencies also may approve a product candidate for fewer or more limited conditions than requested or may grant approval subject to the performance of post-marketing studies for a product candidate or implementation of stringent risk management programs. In addition, regulatory agencies may not approve the labeling claims that are necessary or desirable for the successful commercialization of our product candidates. Even if we receive regulatory approvals, our product candidates may later exhibit adverse effects that limit or prevent their widespread use or that force us to withdraw those product candidates from the market. In addition, a marketed product continues to be subject to strict regulation after approval and may be required to undergo post-approval studies. Any unforeseen problems with an approved product or any violation of regulations could result in restrictions on the product, including its withdrawal from the market. Any delay in, or failure to receive or maintain regulatory approval for, any of our products could prevent us from ever generating meaningful revenues or achieving profitability. Abnormal liver function test results have been reported as complications in trials of ERAs. Abnormal liver function test (LFT) results, which are indicative of potential liver toxicity, have been reported as complications in trials of ERAs. If the results of any of our clinical trials, including the trials relating to ambrisentan and darusentan, indicate abnormal LFTs, we may not receive regulatory approval to market the product candidate and our product, if approved for marketing, may not be able to compete with other products. There can be no assurance that the lack of LFT abnormalities seen in ARIES-2 and our darusentan Phase 2b clinical trials will be confirmed by subsequent clinical trial results. ERAs, including ambrisentan and darusentan, have demonstrated toxicity, including teratogenicity, in animals. Prior to regulatory approval for a product candidate, we are required to conduct studies of our product candidates on animals to determine if they have the potential to cause toxic effects. The toxicology tests for ambrisentan and darusentan indicated that they both cause birth defects in rabbits and rats. Other toxicology tests indicated that ambrisentan and darusentan caused damage to the testes causing infertility in rats and that ambrisentan had the potential to cause damage to the testes in dogs. We assume that similar toxicities could 26 Table of Contents occur in humans. As a result, we will only seek approval for, and the FDA and EMEA will only consider approving ambrisentan and darusentan for, the treatment of severe diseases such as PAH or resistant hypertension. Approval of our product candidates may be delayed or ultimately blocked by such concerns. Neither ambrisentan nor darusentan should be taken by women who are pregnant, or are capable of getting pregnant and not practicing adequate forms of birth control; however, there can be no assurance that ambrisentan or darusentan will not be taken by such women. Additionally, there can be no assurance that a patient will not exceed the recommended dose of our products and suffer adverse consequences. ERAs have been shown to increase peripheral edema and cardiovascular adverse events. Prior clinical trials have indicated that ERAs as a class of drugs may cause peripheral edema (fluid retention) in some patients. In addition, some ERAs have been associated with increased cardiovascular adverse events, including arrhythmia, worsening heart failure, and mortality. For instance, recent Phase 3 studies of atrasentan, an ERA, in patients with metastatic prostatic cancer showed an imbalance in the incidence of arrhythmias, worsening heart failure, and worsening heart failure deaths between patients on placebo and patients receiving atrasentan. In each case, the differences observed with atrasentan were statistically significant. Prior studies of bosentan and enrasentan, both of which are ERAs, in patients with heart failure, have demonstrated trends of increased worsening heart failure. Prior studies of darusentan in patients with heart failure demonstrated small numerical increases in some cardiovascular adverse events, including peripheral edema, atrial arrhythmia, and bradycardia, but not worsening heart failure. There were no clear differences in the number of deaths in the darusentan treatment groups as compared to placebo. None of the above described differences observed with darusentan in heart failure were statistically significant. However, there can be no assurance that future trials will not demonstrate such differences in patients with heart failure. Based on our review of prior clinical trial data and consultations with cardiovascular experts, we believe that the cardiovascular safety results from clinical studies of darusentan in essential hypertension and resistant hypertension and ambrisentan in PAH have demonstrated a propensity for our product candidates to cause peripheral edema. In these patient populations, however, we have not observed worsening heart failure, arrhythmias or other cardiovascular adverse events other than at levels generally seen in patients receiving placebo. However, ambrisentan and darusentan may cause similar cardiovascular complications. If the results of any of our clinical trials indicate that ambrisentan or darusentan worsen heart failure, cause other cardiovascular adverse events or increase mortality, or if the FDA, EMEA or other regulatory agencies determine that a product candidate may worsen heart failure, cause other cardiovascular adverse events or increase mortality, we may not receive regulatory approval to market the product candidate and our product, if approved for marketing, may not be able to compete with other products. There can be no assurance that the cardiovascular safety profiles observed in prior studies of our product candidates will be confirmed by subsequent clinical trial results. If approved, our products may be subject to significant restrictions or we may be subject to stringent post-marketing commitments that could affect our ability to market our products. The FDA, EMEA and other regulatory agencies will typically require a prominently displayed “black box” warning in the label of any product that may lead to death or serious injury. In addition, the FDA, EMEA and other regulatory agencies may require that such products are marketed subject to risk management programs, including distribution through a “closed” distribution system. Closed distribution systems seek to manage the post-marketing risk of an approved medication through: (i) limited access through a number of specialty distributor pharmacies; (ii) registration of all practitioners prescribing the medication; (iii) registration of all patients receiving the medication; (iv) written certification by the practitioner that the medication is being prescribed for a medically appropriate use; (v) review of safety warnings with the patient by the practitioner; (vi) an ongoing comprehensive program to monitor, collect, track, and report adverse event and other safety related information from patients receiving the medication; and (vii) distribution of a medication guide to patients that addresses concerns about possible adverse events and the actions patients should take to avoid them. 27 Table of Contents Ambrisentan and darusentan belong to a class of drugs called endothelin receptor antagonists (ERAs), which may cause damage to the liver, testes and fetus and which may cause cardiovascular adverse events. Bosentan, a product of Actelion, Inc., also belongs to this class of drugs, and the FDA, as a condition of the approval of bosentan, required Actelion to include a black box warning in its label and to distribute bosentan via a closed distribution system. Since ambrisentan and darusentan belong to the same class of drugs as bosentan, we expect that the FDA, EMEA and other regulatory agencies may require us to include black box warnings in ambrisentan’s and darusentan’s labels. Flolan® is distributed through a closed distribution system, which we expect will limit our flexibility in addressing market needs. In addition, we may elect or be required to distribute our product candidates through a closed distribution system that would increase distribution costs and make patient access and reimbursement more difficult. Currently, at least one such closed distribution system has been patented and there can be no assurance that we will be able to license the rights to this system. Development of a proprietary system may be time consuming and costly. We may elect or be required to conduct larger or additional studies of our products or product candidates in order to increase the likelihood that any drug related adverse effects, such as worsening heart failure, are detected in the relevant patient populations. Such studies may be conducted prior to or after regulatory approval and would increase the cost of developing our product candidates. Market size and market acceptance of our product candidates is uncertain. Many factors influence the adoption of new pharmaceuticals, including market size, competition from other products, marketing and distribution restrictions, adverse publicity, product pricing and reimbursement by third-party payors. Even if our product candidates achieve market acceptance, the market may not be large enough and/or prevailing market pricing may not be high enough to result in significant revenues. If the markets for our product candidates are smaller than we anticipate or if our product candidates fail to achieve market acceptance, we may never generate meaningful product revenues. We cannot assure you that physicians will prescribe or patients will use ambrisentan or darusentan, if they are approved. Physicians will prescribe our products only if they determine, based on experience, clinical data, side effect profiles and other factors, that they are preferable to other products then in use or beneficial in combination with other products. Recommendations and endorsements by influential physicians will be essential for market acceptance of our products and we may not be able to obtain these recommendations and endorsements. Physicians may not be willing to use ambrisentan and darusentan because of demonstrated adverse side effects such as damage to testes in some animal species. Additionally, market acceptance of ERAs will be limited because they are known to cause birth defects in animals and are believed to do the same in humans. Ambrisentan for the treatment of PAH and darusentan for the treatment of resistant hypertension address highly competitive markets and the availability of other drugs and devices for the same conditions may slow or reduce market acceptance of our products. Drugs such as beta blockers, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers and diuretics have been on the market for a significant time, and physicians have experience with prescribing these products for the treatment of hypertension. Bosentan, an ERA, is a drug that has been approved for PAH, the same condition we intend for ambrisentan, and has been available in the United States since December 2001. Adoption of ambrisentan may be slow if physicians continue to prescribe bosentan. In addition, Pfizer Inc. has received approval to market sildenafil for the treatment of PAH in the United States and Europe. The approval and market adoption of sildenafil is likely to slow market adoption of ambrisentan in the event that ambrisentan is approved. Sitaxsentan, an ETA-selective ERA like ambrisentan, may be an alternative treatment for PAH based on the preliminary results of recent pivotal Phase 3 clinical trials. Sitaxsentan is at a more advanced stage of development than ambrisentan and is likely to be on the market before ambrisentan if it is approved. If sitaxsentan is approved and achieves market acceptance prior to ambrisentan, the adoption of ambrisentan may be slowed or reduced. In addition, a number of other companies, including Abbott Laboratories and Speedel, have ETA-selective ERAs in late-stage clinical development which could compete with ambrisentan and darusentan and a number of companies, including 28 Table of Contents Actelion, Merck, Novartis AG and Speedel, are developing renin inhibitors as a new class of agents for the treatment of hypertension. Our attempts to distribute Flolan® or to increase future sales of Flolan® may be unsuccessful. Prior to commencing the marketing and distribution of Flolan®in the United States, we must complete a number of regulatory and commercial requirements, including obtaining licenses to dispense a prescription pharmaceutical product in certain states. There can be no assurance that we will commence distributing Flolan® in the second quarter or at all. We may not be able to maintain or increase historical levels of Flolan® sales in the United States as a result of, among other things, competition from other products or one or more generic epoprostenol sodium product introductions. If we do not maintain or increase Flolan® sales in the United States, our operating loss will increase. If we become subject to product liability claims, the damages may exceed our insurance. It is impossible to predict from the results of animal studies all the potential adverse effects that a product candidate may have in humans. We face the risk that the use of Flolan® and our product candidates in humans will result in adverse effects. If we complete clinical testing for our product candidates and receive regulatory approval to market our products, we will label our products with warnings that identify the known potential adverse effects and the patients who should not receive our product. We cannot assure that physicians and patients will comply with these warnings. In addition, unexpected adverse effects may occur even with use of our products that have received approval for commercial sale. Flolan® was approved by the FDA in 1995 and is indicated for the long term intravenous treatment of primary pulmonary hypertension and pulmonary hypertension associated with the scleroderma spectrum of disease in NYHA Class III and Class IV patients who do not respond adequately to conventional therapy. Use of Flolan® is contraindicated in patients with congestive heart failure due to severe left ventricular systolic dysfunction. Flolan® should not be used in patients who develop pulmonary edema during dose initiation. Flolan® is also contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to the drug or structurally-related compounds. Flolan® should be used only by clinicians experienced in the diagnosis and treatment of pulmonary hypertension. The diagnosis of PPH or PH/SSD should be carefully established. In preclinical testing, ambrisentan and darusentan caused birth defects in animals. Based on these results and similar results with other ERAs, we have concluded that ambrisentan and darusentan could cause birth defects in humans. Neither ambrisentan nor darusentan should be taken by women who are pregnant, or are capable of getting pregnant and not practicing adequate forms of birth control; however, there can be no assurance that ambrisentan or darusentan will not be taken by such women. Additionally, there can be no assurance that a patient will not exceed the recommended dose of our products and suffer adverse consequences. If a patient suffers harm from one of our products or product candidates or a child is born with a birth defect resulting from one of our products or product candidates, we may be subject to product liability claims that exceed any insurance coverage that may be in effect at the time. Regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for our products and product candidates; • negative publicity and injury to our reputation; • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • costs of related litigation; • substantial monetary awards to patients and others; • loss of revenues; and • the inability to commercialize our products and product candidates. 29 Table of Contents We have obtained liability insurance of $10 million for our product candidates in clinical trials. The recently completed agreement with GlaxoSmithKline obligates us to substantially increase this coverage, but there can be no assurance that the additional coverage will be available at an acceptable price or at all. We cannot predict all of the possible harms or side effects that may result and, therefore, the amount of insurance coverage we currently hold, or that we or our collaborators may obtain, may not be adequate to protect us from any liabilities. In addition, if any of our product candidates are approved for marketing, we may seek additional insurance coverage. We may be unable to obtain additional coverage on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We may not have sufficient resources to pay for any liabilities resulting from a successful claim beyond the limit of our insurance coverage. If we cannot protect against potential liability claims, we or our collaborators may find it difficult or impossible to commercialize our products. We may not be able to renew or increase our insurance on reasonable terms, if at all. If we are unable to develop adequate sales, marketing or distribution capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to perform some of these functions, we will not be able to commercialize our products effectively. We have limited experience in sales, marketing and distribution. To directly market and distribute any products, including Flolan®, we must build a sales and marketing organization with appropriate technical expertise and distribution capabilities. We recently started to build a focused sales force in the United States to prepare for the marketing and distribution of Flolan®, which we expect to commence in the second quarter of 2006. We expect to increase the size of our initial sales force in the United States in 2007 to prepare for the launch of ambrisentan if it is ultimately approved. For some market opportunities, we have or may need to enter into co-promotion or other licensing arrangements with larger pharmaceutical or biotechnology firms in order to increase the potential commercial success of our products. We may not be able to establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities of our own or enter into such arrangements with third parties in a timely manner or on acceptable terms. To the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other licensing arrangements, our product revenues are likely to be lower than if we directly marketed and sold our products, and some or all of the revenues we receive will depend upon the efforts of third parties, and these efforts may not be successful. For example, GlaxoSmithKline may not be successful in commercializing ambrisentan outside of the United States if it is ultimately approved. Additionally, building marketing and distribution capabilities may be more expensive than we anticipate, requiring us to divert capital from other intended purposes or preventing us from building our marketing and distribution capabilities to the desired levels. For example, we may experience unanticipated costs and risks associated with our recently-signed agreement to distribute and promote Flolan®, and our revenues from Flolan® are not expected to be adequate to yield an acceptable return or we may incur a loss on this business. Since we will rely on third-party manufacturers, we may be unable to control the availability or cost of producing our products. There can be no assurance that Flolan® or our product candidates, if approved, can be manufactured in sufficient commercial quantities, in compliance with regulatory requirements and at an acceptable cost. Although there are several potential manufacturers capable of manufacturing our product candidates in both bulk and finished form, we intend to select and rely at least initially on a single third-party to manufacture the bulk drug and another single third-party to manufacture the drug product for each of our product candidates. In addition, GlaxoSmithKline is responsible for the manufacture of Flolan® and relies on a single third-party to manufacture the active pharmaceutical ingredient required for Flolan®. Establishing a replacement source for any of our products could require at least 12 months and significant additional expense. We or GlaxoSmithKline could be required to expand relationships with manufacturers we have used in the past or establish new relationships with different third-party manufacturers for our products. We may not be able to contract for manufacturing capabilities on acceptable terms, if at all. Furthermore, GlaxoSmithKline or third-party manufacturers may encounter manufacturing or quality control problems or may be unable to obtain or maintain the necessary governmental licenses and approvals to manufacture our products. Any such failure could delay or prevent us from receiving regulatory approvals or marketing our products, or could require us to recall or withdraw our products from the market if they are approved and marketed. Our dependence on 30 Table of Contents third parties may reduce our profit margins and delay or limit our ability to develop and commercialize our products on a timely and competitive basis. Our third-party manufacturers and their manufacturing facilities and processes are subject to regulatory review, which may delay or disrupt our development and commercialization efforts. Third-party manufacturers of our products or product candidates must ensure that all of the facilities, processes, methods and equipment are compliant with the current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMPs) and conduct extensive audits of vendors, contract laboratories and suppliers. The cGMP requirements govern quality control of the manufacturing process and documentation policies and procedures. Compliance by third-party manufacturers with cGMPs requires record keeping and quality control to assure that the product meets applicable specifications and other requirements. Manufacturing facilities are subject to inspection by regulatory agencies at any time. If an inspection by regulatory authorities indicates that there are deficiencies, third-party manufacturers could be required to take remedial actions, stop production or close the facility, which would disrupt the manufacturing processes and limit the supplies of our products or product candidates. If they fail to comply with these requirements, we also may be required to curtail the marketing and distribution of Flolan® in the United States or clinical trials of our product candidates, and may not be permitted to sell our products or may be limited in the jurisdictions in which we are permitted to sell them, or may be required to recall or withdraw from the market any affected approved and marketed products. Due to our reliance on contract research organizations and other third parties to conduct clinical trials, we are unable to directly control the timing, conduct and expense of our clinical trials. We rely primarily on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, including those for ambrisentan and darusentan. In addition, in certain countries outside of the United States, we rely on third parties to interact on our behalf with applicable regulatory authorities. As a result, we have had and will continue to have less control over the conduct of the clinical trials, the timing and completion of the trials, the required reporting of adverse events and the management of data developed through the trials than would be the case if we were relying entirely upon our own staff. Communicating with outside parties can also be challenging, potentially leading to mistakes as well as difficulties in coordinating activities. Outside parties may have staffing difficulties, may undergo changes in priorities or may become financially distressed, adversely affecting their willingness or ability to conduct our trials. We may experience unexpected cost increases that are beyond our control. Errors or omissions by third party providers may also create errors in publicly reported results, forcing us to revise our previous disclosures or having other adverse effects on our business or stock price. For example, the top line results originally announced for our darusentan Phase 2b trial included an error that had to be subsequently corrected. Problems with the timeliness or quality of the work of a contract research organization may lead us to seek to terminate the relationship and use an alternative service provider. However, making this change may be costly and may delay our trials, and contractual restrictions may make such a change difficult or impossible. Additionally, it may be impossible to find a replacement organization that can conduct our trials in an acceptable manner, at an acceptable cost and in the timeframe anticipated. If we do not find development and commercialization collaborators for our product candidates, we may have to reduce or delay product development and commercialization and increase our expenditures. Prior to March 3, 2006, our collaborations were solely with academic scientists and institutions for basic scientific research and with Novartis relating to targets and compounds identified in our discovery research program. On March 3, 2006, we entered into a broad collaboration with GlaxoSmithKline pursuant to which we licensed manufacturing, development and commercialization rights for ambrisentan to GlaxoSmithKline in all territories outside of the United States and, simultaneously, received the exclusive right to market and distribute Flolan® (epoprostenol sodium) in the United States. To date, we have not entered into any other collaboration agreements for the development or commercialization of our existing product candidates. We may enter into additional relationships with selected pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies to help develop and commercialize our product candidates. We may not be able to negotiate collaborations with these other companies for the development or commercialization of our 31 Table of Contents product candidates on acceptable terms. If we are not able to establish such collaborative arrangements, we may have to reduce or delay further development of some of our programs, significantly increase our planned expenditures and undertake development and commercialization activities at our own expense. If we increase our planned expenditures or undertake those activities at our own expense, we may be required to raise additional capital which may not be available on acceptable terms. Any development or commercialization collaborations we have entered into or may enter into with pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies, including our research collaboration agreement with Novartis and our PAH Collaboration with GlaxoSmithKline, are or will be subject to a number of risks, including: • collaborators may not pursue further development and commercialization of compounds resulting from collaborations or may elect to terminate or not to renew research and development or distribution programs; • collaborators may delay, underfund or stop product development, including clinical trials or abandon a product candidate, repeat or conduct new clinical trials or require the development of a new formulation of a product candidate for clinical testing; • a collaborator with marketing and distribution rights to one or more of our products may not commit enough resources to the marketing and distribution of our products, limiting our potential revenues from the commercialization of these products; and • disputes may arise delaying or terminating the research, development or commercialization of our product candidates, or resulting in significant legal proceedings. Even if we receive regulatory approval for our product candidates, we will be subject to ongoing regulatory obligations and review. Once we begin to distribute Flolan®, we will be subject to continuing regulatory obligations such as safety reporting requirements and additional post-marketing obligations, including regulatory oversight of our promotion and marketing of the product. We will be subject to the same or similar regulatory obligations with respect to our product candidates if they are ultimately approved. In addition, we and our third-party manufacturers will be required to adhere to regulations setting forth cGMP. These regulations cover all aspects of the manufacturing, storage, testing, quality control distribution and record keeping relating to our product candidates. Furthermore, we or our third-party manufacturers will typically be required to pass a pre-approval inspection of manufacturing facilities by the FDA and foreign authorities before obtaining marketing approval and, if approved, will be subject to periodic inspection by these regulatory authorities. Such inspections may reveal compliance issues that could prevent or delay marketing approval, or require the expenditure of financial or other resources to address. If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. Our success depends on retention of our President and Chief Executive Officer and other key personnel. We are highly dependent on our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman, J. William Freytag, Ph.D., and other members of our management team. We are named as the beneficiary on a term life insurance policy covering Dr. Freytag in the amount of $2.0 million. We also depend on academic collaborators for each of our research and development programs. The loss of any of our key employees or academic collaborators could delay our discovery research program and the development and commercialization of our product candidates or result in termination of them in their entirety. Dr. Freytag, as well as others on our executive management team, has a severance agreement with us, but the agreement provides for “at-will” employment with no specified term. Our future success also will depend in large part on our continued ability to attract and retain other highly qualified scientific, technical and management personnel, as well as personnel with expertise in clinical testing, governmental regulation and commercialization. We face competition for personnel from other companies, universities, public and private research institutions, government 32 Table of Contents entities and other organizations. If we are unsuccessful in our recruitment and retention efforts, our business will be harmed. We also rely on consultants, collaborators and advisors to assist us in formulating and conducting our research. All of our consultants, collaborators and advisors are employed by other employers or are self-employed and may have commitments to or consulting contracts with other entities that may limit their ability to contribute to our company. If our discovery research program is not successful, we may be unable to develop additional product candidates. We have devoted and expect to continue to devote significant resources to our discovery research program. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, we spent $7.1 million, $5.2 million and $3.3 million, respectively, on our discovery research program. We are obligated under sponsored research agreements to make annual payments of $250,000 to the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center. However, this program may not succeed in identifying additional therapeutic targets, product candidates or products. If we do not develop new products, or if product candidates developed through our discovery research program do not receive regulatory approval or achieve commercial success, we would have no other way to achieve any meaningful revenue through this program. The collaboration agreement we entered into with Novartis in October 2003, as amended in May 2005, provides Novartis with an exclusive option to our discoveries, with limited exceptions, for three year periods ending October 2006 (relating to product candidates other than HDACi product candidates) and May 2008 (relating to HDACi product candidates). The collaboration agreement provides Novartis with the unilateral right to terminate or extend the collaboration at the end of the respective three year periods. In addition, Novartis has an early termination right which allows it to terminate the collaboration agreement with 60 days prior notice at any time (for product candidates other than HDACi product candidates) or at any time after November 23, 2006 (for HDACi product candidates). Novartis may choose to terminate or not renew the agreement with us, possibly delaying our development programs and increasing our operating loss. Our operations may be impaired unless we can successfully manage our growth. As a result of our collaboration with GlaxoSmithKline and our expected marketing and distribution of Flolan® in the United States beginning in the second quarter of 2006, we expect to significantly accelerate the expansion of our sales and marketing and administrative operations in the near term. In addition, we expect to continue to expand our research and development, medical and regulatory affairs, and product development operations. Our number of employees and operational spending have increased significantly each year since inception. This expansion has placed, and is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources. To manage further growth, we will be required to improve existing, and implement additional, operational and financial systems, procedures and controls and hire, train and manage additional employees. We cannot assure that (i) our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls will be adequate to support our anticipated growth, (ii) management will be able to hire, train, retain, motivate and manage required personnel or (iii) management will be able to successfully identify, manage and exploit existing and potential market opportunities. Our failure to manage growth effectively could limit our ability to achieve our research and development and commercialization goals. If we engage in any acquisition, we will incur a variety of costs, and we may never realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Since our inception, we have acquired three product candidates through in-licensing, two of which remain in development, and one product through a distribution arrangement. One of our strategies for business expansion is the acquisition of additional products and product candidates. We may attempt to acquire these products or product candidates, or other potentially beneficial technologies, through in-licensing or the acquisition of businesses, services or products that we believe are a strategic fit with our business. Although we currently have no commitments or agreements with respect to any acquisitions, if we undertake an 33 Table of Contents acquisition, the process of integrating the acquired business, technology, service or product may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and may divert significant management attention from our ongoing business operations. We may need to expand existing capabilities and add new functions, leading to unexpected difficulties and delays. Moreover, we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition for a variety of reasons, such as an acquired product candidate proving to not be safe or effective in later clinical trials. We may fund any future acquisition by issuing equity or debt securities, which could dilute the ownership percentages of our existing stockholders. Acquisition efforts can consume significant management attention and require substantial expenditures, which could detract from our other programs. In addition, we may devote resources to potential acquisitions that are never completed. Following the sublicense of Perfan® I.V., our operating losses have increased and will continue to increase. As a result of a detailed review of our strategic options, we sublicensed Perfan® I.V. to Wülfing, depriving us of commercialization and sales experience and contacts which could otherwise augment our efforts to successfully launch the commercial sale of any of our product candidates that receive regulatory approval. Prior to sublicensing our rights to Perfan® I.V. to Wülfing, our product sales revenue was derived solely from sales of Perfan® I.V. and we recorded $3.2 million and $3.3 million in sales of this product in 2005 and 2004, respectively, which is included in discontinued operations, net of income taxes in our statement of operations. Following the sublicense of Perfan® I.V. to Wülfing, any revenue derived from sales of Perfan® I.V. will be in the form of royalty payments from Wülfing and will not be material to our overall business. The amount of the royalties we receive is dependent upon the ability of Wülfing to successfully market and sell Perfan® I.V. Based upon our past sales of Perfan® I.V., we do not expect the royalty payments from Wülfing, net of our royalty obligations to Aventis, to provide us with a material revenue stream. We believe that sales of Perfan® I.V. could decline over time due to the lack of patent protection for Perfan® I.V., competition from other drugs sold for the same condition as Perfan® I.V., some of which sell for significantly lower prices, and changes in foreign exchange rates. Under certain circumstances involving an interruption of sales of Perfan® I.V. in Europe, we may be required to refund up to $1.5 million to Wülfing. Our corporate compliance program cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations. The development, manufacturing, distribution, pricing, advertising, promotion, sales, and reimbursement of our products, together with our general operations, are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and other authorities within the United States and numerous entities outside of the United States. We are a relatively small company with approximately 110 employees, many of whom have joined us in the last 12 months. We also have significantly fewer employees than many other companies that have the same or fewer product candidates in late stage clinical development and we rely heavily on third parties to conduct many important functions. As a publicly traded company we are subject to significant regulations, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, some of which have only recently been adopted, and all of which are subject to change. While we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program based on what we believe are the current best practices and continue to update the program in response to newly implemented or changing regulatory requirements, we cannot assure that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations. For example, in connection with our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, and the corresponding audit of the assessment by our independent registered public accounting firm, we identified deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting. Although none of the deficiencies identified as of December 31, 2005 were determined to be “significant deficiencies” or a “material weakness” as defined by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, we cannot assure you that we will not find material weaknesses in the future. We also cannot assure that we could correct any material weakness to allow our management to conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective in time to enable our independent registered public accounting firm to attest that such assessment will have been fairly stated in any report to be filed with the SEC or attest that we have maintained 34 Table of Contents effective internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act or any other regulations we could be subject to a range of consequences, including restrictions on our ability to sell equity or otherwise raise capital funds, suspension or termination of clinical trials, the failure to approve a product candidate, restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of products from the market, significant fines, or other sanctions or litigation. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have faced lawsuits and investigations pertaining to violations of health care “fraud and abuse” laws, such as the federal false claims act, the federal anti-kickback statute, and other state and federal laws and regulations. While we have developed and implemented a corporate compliance program based upon what we believe are current best practices, we cannot guarantee that this program will protect us from future lawsuits or investigations. If any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant impact on our business, including the imposition of significant fines or other sanctions. Our operations involve hazardous materials, and compliance with environmental laws and regulations is expensive. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including chemicals that cause cancer, volatile solvents, radioactive materials including tritium and phosphorus-32 and biological materials including human tissue samples that have the potential to transmit diseases. Our operations also produce hazardous waste and our use and production of hazardous waste have increased in recent periods and are expected to increase further in future periods as the scale of our research and development activities grow. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local regulations relating to the use, handling and disposal of these materials. We generally contract with third parties for the disposal of such substances and store certain low level radioactive waste at our facility until the materials are no longer considered radioactive. While we believe that we comply with current regulatory requirements, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. We may be required to incur substantial costs to comply with current or future environmental and safety regulations. If an accident or contamination occurred, we would likely incur significant costs associated with civil penalties or criminal fines and in complying with environmental laws and regulations. Although we currently carry a $2.0 million pollution and remediation insurance policy, we cannot assure that this would be sufficient to cover our potential liability if we experienced a loss or that such insurance will continue to be available to us in the future on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Changes in the economic, political, legal and business environments in foreign countries in which we do business could limit or disrupt our current and future international sales and operations. We have sublicensed the rights to sell Perfan® I.V. in Europe and also expect to commercialize other products outside the United States and, as a result, our operations and financial results could be limited or disrupted by any of the following: • economic problems that disrupt foreign healthcare payment systems; • the imposition of governmental controls, including price controls, and changes in regulatory requirements; • less favorable intellectual property or other applicable laws; • the inability to obtain any necessary foreign regulatory approvals of products in a timely manner, if at all; • import and export license requirements; • economic weakness, including inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets; • business interruptions resulting from geo-political actions, including war and terrorism; 35 Table of Contents • difficulties complying with foreign tax, employment, immigration and labor laws and pharmaceutical regulations; • unexpected changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements; • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; and • slower collection experience outside the United States. Currency fluctuations may negatively affect our financial condition. We incur significant expenses, including for clinical trials, outside the United States. As a result, our business is affected by fluctuations in exchange rates between the United States dollar and foreign currencies. Our reporting currency is the United States dollar and, therefore, financial positions are translated into United States dollars at the applicable foreign exchange rates. Exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect our revenues, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. If we are successful in establishing additional international sales, these sales may also be denominated in foreign currencies and hence subject to volatility due to changes in foreign exchange rates. Risks Related to Our Industry Our competitors may develop and market drugs that are less expensive, more effective or safer than our product candidates. The pharmaceutical market is highly competitive. Many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have developed or are developing products that will compete with the product we distribute or the product candidates we are developing. Several significant competitors are working on, or already have approval for, drugs for the same indications as ambrisentan and darusentan. In addition, it is possible that competitors are working on, or already have approval for, generic versions of Flolan®. It is also possible that our competitors will develop and market products that are less expensive, more effective or safer than our future products or that will render our products obsolete. Some of these products are in late-stage clinical trials. It is also possible that our competitors will commercialize competing products before any of our product candidates are approved and marketed. Actelion, Ltd. received FDA approval in December 2001 for bosentan (Tracleer®), an ERA for the treatment of PAH. United Therapeutics Corp. received FDA approval in May 2002 for treprostinil (Remodulin®) for the treatment of PAH. In addition, Schering AG and CoTherix, Inc. market iloprost (Ventavis®) for the treatment of PAH. Encysive Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is developing sitaxsentan (Thelintm), an ETA selective ERA which has demonstrated efficacy in a Phase 3 study and may be approved for the treatment of PAH earlier than ambrisentan. Pfizer, Inc. received approval for the use of sildenafil (Revatio®) for the treatment of PAH in the United States and Europe, and if ambrisentan is approved, sildenafil is likely to be a major competitor. ICOS Corporation and Eli Lilly and Co. have initiated clinical trials to evaluate oral tadalafil (Cialis®) for the treatment of PAH. Recently, a published case report indicated that a single PAH patient responded to treatment with Gleevec®, a cancer drug marketed by Novartis. The author of the case report indicated that he and other investigators intend to conduct further studies of the drug in PAH patients. In addition, Predix Pharmaceuticals Holdings, Inc. is in early stages of clinical development of a compound with a novel mechanism of action for the possible treatment of PAH. A number of other companies, including Abbott Laboratories and Speedel, have ETA selective ERAs in late-stage clinical development that could compete with ambrisentan and darusentan. In addition, Actelion, Merck, Novartis AG and Speedel Group, among other companies, are developing renin inhibitors as a new class of agents for the treatment of hypertension. We expect that competition from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities and public and private research institutions will increase. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, research and other resources than we do. We may not have the financial resources, technical and research expertise or marketing, distribution or support capabilities to compete successfully. 36 Table of Contents Our products may face significant price pressures due to competition from similar products. It is expected that we could experience pressures on the pricing of our product and, if approved, our product candidates. Competition from manufacturers of competing drugs and generic drugs is a major challenge in the United States and is increasing internationally. Upon the expiration or loss of patent protection for a product, or upon the “at-risk” launch (while patent infringement litigation against the generic product is pending) by a generic manufacturer of a generic version of a product, we could lose the major portion of sales of that product in a very short period of time. We cannot predict with accuracy the timing or impact of the introduction of competitive products or their possible effect on our sales. Products that will likely compete with our product candidates are already approved and additional potentially competitive products are in various stages of development, some of which have been filed for approval with the FDA, EMEA and with regulatory authorities in other countries. In addition, there are currently approved products and product candidates under development that could be used “off-label” by physicians to attempt to treat indications for which our product candidates are being investigated. To the extent “off-label” use of an approved drug product is cheaper than a product approved for the indication of use, we may face additional pricing pressures, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. The status of reimbursement from third-party payors for newly approved health care drugs is uncertain and failure to obtain adequate reimbursement could limit our ability to generate revenue. Our ability to commercialize pharmaceutical products may depend, in part, on the extent to which reimbursement for the products will be available from: • government and health administration authorities; • private health insurers; • managed care programs; and • other third-party payors. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products. Third-party payors, including Medicare and Medicaid, are challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Government and other third-party payors increasingly are attempting to contain health care costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new drugs and by refusing, in some cases, to provide coverage for uses of approved products for diseases or conditions for which the FDA has not granted labeling approval. Third-party insurance coverage may not be available to patients for our products. If government and other third-party payors do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for our products, their market acceptance may be reduced. Health care reform measures could adversely affect our business. The business and financial condition of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are affected by the efforts of governmental and third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care. In the United States and in foreign jurisdictions there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of legislative and regulatory efforts aimed at changing the health care system. For example, in some countries other than the United States, pricing of prescription drugs is subject to government control, and we expect proposals to implement similar controls in the United States to continue. There can be no assurance that prevailing market or government controlled prices will be sufficient to generate an acceptable return on our investment in our product candidates. Pricing pressures may also increase as the result of the 2003 Medicare Act. In addition, managed care organizations (MCOs) as well as Medicaid and other government agencies continue to seek price discounts. Government efforts to reduce Medicaid expenses may continue to increase the use of MCOs. This may result in MCOs influencing prescription decisions for a larger segment of the population. In addition, some states have implemented and other states are considering price controls or patient-access constraints under the 37 Table of Contents Medicaid program and some states are considering price-control regimes that would apply to broader segments of their populations that are not Medicaid eligible. Another example of proposed reform that could affect our business is the discussion of drug reimportation into the United States. In 2000, Congress directed the FDA to adopt regulations allowing the reimportation of approved drugs originally manufactured in the United States back into the United States from other countries where the drugs were sold at a lower price. Although the Secretary of Health and Human Services has refused to implement this directive, in July 2003 the House of Representatives passed a similar bill that does not require the Secretary of Health and Human Services to act. The reimportation bills have not yet resulted in any new laws or regulations; however, these and other initiatives remain subject to active debate both on the federal and state levels and could decrease the price we or any potential collaborators receive for our products, adversely affecting our profitability. We are unable to predict what additional legislation or regulation, if any, relating to the health care industry or third-party coverage and reimbursement may be enacted in the future or what effect such legislation or regulation would have on our business. Outside the United States certain countries set prices in connection with the regulatory process. We cannot be sure that such prices will be acceptable to us or our collaborative partners. The pendency or approval of such proposals or reforms could result in a decrease in our stock price or limit our ability to raise capital or to obtain strategic partnerships or licenses. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in international jurisdictions would prevent us from marketing our products abroad. We intend to market or have our products marketed outside of the United States. In order to market our products in the European Union and many other foreign jurisdictions, we or our collaborators must obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. If we enter into a collaboration, we expect that a collaborator may have responsibility to obtain regulatory approvals outside of the United States, and we may depend on such collaborators to obtain these approvals. For example, we will rely upon GlaxoSmithKline to obtain approvals to market ambrisentan outside of the United States. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing. The time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The foreign regulatory approval process may include risks in addition to those associated with obtaining FDA approval. For instance, active comparator trials could be required for the approval of ambrisentan. We or our collaborators may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or jurisdictions. We and our collaborators may not be able to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive the approvals required to commercialize our product candidates in any markets. Ambrisentan’s orphan drug designation may be challenged by competitors or withdrawn by the FDA or the EMEA. The FDA has designated ambrisentan for PAH as an orphan drug under the Orphan Drug Act. In addition, the Commission of the European Communities, with a favorable opinion of the Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products of the EMEA, has granted orphan drug designation to ambrisentan for PAH. The United States and European orphan drug designations provide incentives to manufacturers to develop and market drugs for rare diseases, generally by entitling the first developer that receives marketing approval for an orphan drug to an exclusive marketing period (seven years in the United States and up to ten years in Europe) for that product. Orphan drug designation does not increase the likelihood of eventual regulatory approval for a product candidate, including ambrisentan, and orphan drug designation may be withdrawn by the FDA and the EMEA, or challenged by our competitors, in certain circumstances. In recent years, Congress and the EMEA have considered changes to the orphan drug regulations to shorten the period of automatic market exclusivity and to grant marketing rights to simultaneous developers of a drug. If the United States or European orphan drug regulations are amended in this manner, any approved drugs for which we have been granted orphan exclusive 38 Table of Contents marketing rights may face increased competition, which may decrease the amount of revenue we may receive from these products. In order to obtain orphan drug marketing registration for ambrisentan in Europe, we expect that the EMEA will require GlaxoSmithKline to demonstrate that ambrisentan is not “similar” to bosentan and, potentially, sitaxsentan, and that ambrisentan meets other criteria. The EMEA’s assessment of similarity is different than the standard used by the FDA. Although we believe that ambrisentan is not similar to bosentan or sitaxsentan and that it meets other criteria for differentiation, the EMEA may consider ambrisentan to be similar, in which case, in order to receive marketing approval in Europe, GlaxoSmithKline would then be required to demonstrate that ambrisentan is “clinically superior” to bosentan and, potentially, sitaxsentan. In this scenario, if GlaxoSmithKline is unable to demonstrate that ambrisentan is clinically superior, ambrisentan would not be approved for marketing in Europe. Even if GlaxoSmithKline is able to demonstrate that ambrisentan is clinically superior, it could be required to share the remaining 10-year orphan exclusivity and compete with the similar approved orphan medicinal product. Changes in or interpretations of accounting rules and regulations, including recently enacted changes relating to the expensing of stock options, could result in unfavorable accounting charges or require us to change our compensation policies. Accounting methods and policies for business and market practices of biopharmaceutical companies are subject to further review, interpretation and guidance from relevant accounting authorities, including the SEC. The Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued SFAS No. 123 (Revised 2004, SFAS No. 123(R)) and its related implementation guidance in December 2004. SFAS No. 123(R) focuses primarily on accounting for transactions in which an entity obtains employee services in share-based payment transactions and will require us to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the grant-date fair value of the award (with limited exceptions). The cost will be recognized over the period during which an employee is required to provide service in exchange for the award. We are required to implement SFAS No. 123(R) as of the beginning of the first annual reporting period that begins after June 15, 2005 and we adopted the standard as of January 1, 2006. Prior to our implementation of SFAS No. 123(R), we were not required to record stock-based compensation charges if the employee’s stock option exercise price was greater than or equal to the fair value of our common stock at the date of grant. In addition we were previously not required to record compensation expense related to our employee stock purchase plan. As a result of our implementation of SFAS No. 123(R), our future operating expenses will increase. We rely heavily on stock options to compensate existing employees and attract new employees. We may choose to reduce our reliance on stock options as a compensation tool as a result of the impact of SFAS No. 123(R). If we reduce our use of stock options, it may be more difficult for us to attract, motivate and retain qualified employees. If we do not reduce our reliance on stock options or modify our employee stock purchase plan, our reported losses will increase. In addition, our use of cash to compensate employees may increase. Although we believe that our accounting practices are consistent with current accounting pronouncements, changes to or new interpretations of accounting methods or policies in the future may require us to reclassify, restate or otherwise change or revise our financial statements. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property We rely on compounds and technology licensed from third parties and termination of any of those licenses would result in the loss of significant rights. We have exclusively licensed worldwide rights under certain patent rights owned by Abbott and BASF to use ambrisentan for all therapeutic uses in humans and to use darusentan for all therapeutic uses in humans other than treatment of cancer. We also have the right to market and distribute Flolan® in the United States for a three year period which is expected to commence in the second quarter of 2006. In addition, we have the worldwide exclusive rights to certain patents and patent applications licensed from the University of Colorado and the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center and rights to license future technology and patent 39 Table of Contents applications arising out of research sponsored at those institutions related to heart failure. Key financial and other terms for future technology would still need to be negotiated with the research institutions, and it may not be possible to obtain any such license on terms that are satisfactory to us. Our licenses and our distribution agreement relating to Flolan® generally may be terminated by the respective licensors if we fail to perform our obligations, including obligations to develop and commercialize the compounds and technologies under the license agreements and obligations to market and distribute Flolan® under the distribution agreement. The license agreements also generally require us to meet specified milestones or show commercially reasonable diligence in the development and commercialization of the compounds or technology under the license. If our agreements are terminated, we would lose the rights to the products or product candidates, reducing our potential revenues. If we are unable to protect our proprietary technology, we may not be able to compete effectively. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and enforce patent protection for our products and product candidates, both in the United States and other countries, to prevent competitors from developing, manufacturing and marketing products based on our technology. The scope and extent of patent protection for our product candidates is uncertain and frequently involves complex legal, scientific and factual questions. To date, there has emerged no consistent policy regarding breadth of claims allowed for patents of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. We cannot predict the breadth of claims that will be allowed and issued in patents related to biotechnology or pharmaceutical applications. Once such patents have issued, we cannot predict how the claims will be construed or enforced or whether applicable statutes, regulations or case law will change in any material respect. In addition, statutory differences between countries may limit the protection we can obtain on some of our inventions outside of the United States. For example, methods of treating humans are not patentable in many countries outside of the United States. The degree of protection for our proprietary technologies and product candidates is uncertain because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. For example: • we or the party from whom we licensed such patents might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications and issued patents; • we or the party from whom we licensed such patents might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; • it is possible that none of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents; • the claims of our issued patents may be unenforceable or narrower than as filed and not sufficiently broad to prevent third parties from circumventing them; • we may not develop additional proprietary technologies or drug candidates that are patentable; • our patent applications or patents may be subject to interference, opposition or similar administrative proceedings; • any patents issued to us or our potential strategic partners may not provide a basis for commercially viable products or may be challenged by third parties in the course of litigation or administrative proceedings such as reexaminations or interferences; and • the patents of others may have an adverse effect on our ability to do business. Furthermore, the patents that we have licensed with respect to Flolan®, ambrisentan and darusentan are owned by third parties. These third parties or their affiliates were previously responsible for and controlled the prosecution of these patents. In addition, these third parties, with our advice and input, are currently responsible for and control the prosecution and enforcement of these patents. A failure by these third parties to 40 Table of Contents adequately prosecute and enforce these patents could result in a decline in the value of the patents and have a material adverse effect on our business. Since we collaborate with third parties on some of our technology, there is also the risk that disputes may arise as to the rights to technology or drugs developed in collaboration with other parties. Additionally, changes in applicable patent law, including recent Supreme Court and other case law, could impact the interpretation, scope or enforceability of our patents and limit our ability to exclude competitors from entering our markets and utilizing our technology. Patents relating to our products or product candidates or methods of using them can be challenged by our competitors who can argue that our patents are invalid and/or unenforceable. Third parties may challenge our rights to, or the scope or validity of, our patents. Patents also may not protect our products or product candidates if competitors devise ways of making these or similar product candidates without legally infringing our patents. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and the FDA regulations and policies provide incentives to manufacturers to challenge patent validity or create modified, non-infringing versions of a drug or device in order to facilitate the approval of generic substitutes. These same types of incentives encourage manufacturers to submit new drug applications that rely on literature and clinical data not prepared for or by the drug sponsor. We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how to develop and maintain our competitive position. While we believe that we have protected our trade secrets, some of our current or former employees, consultants, scientific advisors or collaborators may unintentionally or willfully disclose our confidential information to competitors or use our proprietary technology for their own benefit. If our collaborative partners, employees or consultants develop inventions or processes independently that may be applicable to our products under development, disputes may arise about ownership of proprietary rights to those inventions and/or processes. Such inventions and/or processes will not necessarily become our property, but may remain the property of those persons or their employers. Protracted and costly litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights. Furthermore, enforcing a claim alleging the infringement of our trade secrets would be expensive and difficult to prove, making the outcome uncertain. Our competitors may also independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how or gain access to our proprietary information through some other means. We may be accused of infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties, which could impair our ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates. Our success depends in part on operating without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. It is possible that we may infringe on intellectual property rights of others without being aware of the infringement. If a patent holder believes that one of our products or product candidates, or our use of a patented product or process, infringes on its patent, it may sue us even if we have received patent protection for our technology. If another party claims we are infringing its technology, we could face a number of issues, including the following: • defending a lawsuit, which is very expensive and time consuming; • defending against an interference proceeding in the United States Patent and Trademark Office, which also can be very expensive and time consuming; • an adverse decision in a lawsuit or in an interference proceeding resulting in the loss of some or all of our rights to our intellectual property; • paying a large sum for damages if we are found to be infringing; • being prohibited from making, using, selling or offering for sale our product candidates or our products, if any, until we obtain a license from the patent holder. Such a license may not be granted to us on satisfactory terms, if at all, and even if we are granted a license, we may have to pay substantial royalties or grant cross-licenses to our patents; and 41 Table of Contents • redesigning the manufacturing methods or the use claims of our product candidates so that they do not infringe on the other party’s patent in the event that we are unable to obtain a license, which, even if possible, could require substantial additional capital, could necessitate additional regulatory approval, and could delay commercialization. Risks Related to Our Stock The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be highly volatile. We cannot assure you that an active trading market for our common stock will exist at any time. Holders of our common stock may not be able to sell shares quickly or at the market price if trading in our common stock is not active. The trading price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • actual or anticipated results of our clinical trials; • actual or anticipated regulatory approvals of our products or of competing products; • changes in laws or regulations applicable to our products; • changes in the expected or actual timing of our development programs; • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; • actual or anticipated sales of Flolan®; • announcements of technological innovations by us, our collaborators or our competitors; • new products or services introduced or announced by us or our competitors; • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • conditions or trends in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries; • changes in the market valuations of similar companies; • announcements by us of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • additions or departures of key personnel; • disputes or other developments relating to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies; • the loss of a collaborator, including GlaxoSmithKline or Novartis; • developments concerning our collaborations; • trading volume of our common stock; • sales of our common stock by us; and • sales or distributions of our common stock by our stockholders, including distributions by certain of our principal stockholders to their limited partners, who may in turn sell their shares. In addition, the stock market in general, the Nasdaq National Market and the market for technology companies in particular have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Further, there has been particular volatility in the market prices of securities of biotechnology and life sciences companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted against companies. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management’s attention and resources. 42 Table of Contents Issuance of shares in connection with financing transactions or under stock plans and outstanding warrants will dilute current stockholders. Pursuant to our 2003 Equity Incentive Plan, our management is authorized to grant stock options to our employees, directors and consultants, and our employees are eligible to participate in our 2003 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. As of December 31, 2005, options to purchase a total of 3,517,745 shares were outstanding under the Plan (most of which have exercise prices below our current market price) and options to purchase 1,275,569 shares remained available for grant under the plan. The reserve under our 2003 Equity Incentive Plan will automatically increase each January 1 by the lesser of five percent of the number of total outstanding shares of our common stock on such date or 2,500,000 shares, subject to the ability of our board of directors to prevent or reduce such increase. Additionally, we have 250,000 shares of our common stock reserved for issuance under our 2003 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, approximately 50,000 of which were issued as of December 31, 2005. The reserve under our 2003 Employee Stock Purchase Plan will automatically increase each January 1 by the lesser of 1.25% of the number of total outstanding shares of our common stock on such date or 500,000 shares, subject to the ability of our board of directors to prevent or reduce such increase. In addition, we also have warrants outstanding to purchase 1,477,001 shares of our common stock, all of which have exercise prices below our current market price. Our stockholders will incur dilution upon exercise of any outstanding stock options or warrants. In addition, if we raise additional funds by issuing additional common stock, or securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for common stock, further dilution to our existing stockholders will result, and new investors could gain rights superior to existing stockholders. Some provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law may have anti-takeover effects that could discourage, delay or prevent a change of control or management, even if such changes would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. Since management is appointed by the board of directors, any inability to effect a change in the board may result in the entrenchment of management. These provisions include: • authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock; • limiting the removal of directors by the stockholders to removal for cause; • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; • eliminating the ability of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders; and • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an interested stockholder. This provision could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, whether or not it is desired by or beneficial to our stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 43 Table of Contents 