ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Ownership of our common stock involves risk. You should carefully consider, in addition to the other information set forth herein, the following risk factors. Our business is subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively affect our financial performance. Changes in the interest rate environment may reduce our profits. It is expected that we will continue to realize income from the differential or "spread" between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest bearing liabilities. Net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and repricing characteristics of interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities. Changes in market interest rates generally affect loan volume, loan yields, funding sources and funding costs. While an increase in the general level of interest rates may increase our net interest margin and loan yield, it may adversely affect the ability of certain borrowers with variable rate loans to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations. In addition, an increase in market interest rates on loans is generally associated with a lower volume of loan originations, which may reduce earnings. Following a decline in the general level of interest rates, our ability to maintain a positive net interest spread is dependant on our ability to reduce the interest paid on deposits, borrowings, and other interest bearing liabilities. We cannot provide assurance that we would be able to lower the rates paid on deposit accounts to support our liquidity requirements as lower rates may result in deposit outflows. 18 Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, loan origination volume, liquidity, and overall profitability. We cannot assure you that we can minimize our interest rate risk. We face strong competition from financial services companies and other companies that offer banking services which could negatively affect our business. We conduct our banking operations primarily in Southern California. Increased competition in our market may result in reduced loans and deposits. Ultimately, we may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Many competitors offer the same banking services that we offer in our service area. These competitors include national banks, regional banks and other community banks. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including without limitation, savings and loan institutions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries. In particular, our competitors include several major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations and ATMs and conduct extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Additionally, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions have larger lending limits and are thereby able to serve the credit needs of larger customers. Areas of competition include interest rates for loans and deposits, efforts to obtain deposits, and range and quality of products and services provided, including new technology driven products and services. Technological innovation continues to contribute to greater competition in domestic and international financial services markets as technological advances enable more companies to provide financial services. We also face competition from out-of-state financial intermediaries that have opened production offices or that solicit deposits in our market areas. If we are unable to attract and retain banking customers, we may be unable to grow the levels of our loans and deposits and our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. The recent disruption in the credit markets has had the effect of decreasing the overall liquidity in the marketplace. Competition from financial institutions seeking to maintain adequate liquidity has placed upward pressure on the rates paid on certain deposit accounts at the same time the level of market interest rates has declined. To maintain adequate levels of liquidity, without exhausting secondary sources of liquidity, we may incur increased deposit costs. Changes in economic conditions, in particular an economic slowdown in Southern California, could materially and negatively affect our business. Our business is directly impacted by factors such as economic, political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, changes in government monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond our control. A deterioration in economic conditions, whether caused by national or local concerns, in particular an economic slowdown in Southern California, could result in the following consequences, any of which could hurt our business materially: loan delinquencies may increase; problem assets and foreclosures may increase; demand for our products and services may decrease; low cost or noninterest bearing deposits may decrease; and collateral for loans made by us, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing customers' borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our existing loans. These circumstances may lead to an increase in nonaccrual and classified loans, which generally results in a provision for credit losses and in turn reduces the Company's net earnings. The State of California continues to face fiscal challenges, the long-term effects of which on the State's economy cannot be predicted. 19 A downturn in the real estate market could negatively affect our business. There has been a slow-down in the real estate market due to disruptions in the credit markets, the effects of which are not yet completely known or quantified. At December 31, 2007, 53% of our loans were secured by commercial real estate, 10% were secured by commercial real estate construction projects, 8% were secured by residential real estate construction projects and 5% were secured by residential real estate. We have observed tighter credit underwriting and higher premiums on liquidity, both which may place downward pressure on real estate values. Any further downturn in the real estate market could negatively affect our business because a significant portion of our loans is secured by real estate. Our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral would then be diminished and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. Substantially all of our real property collateral is located in Southern California. If there is a significant decline in real estate values, especially in Southern California, the collateral for our loans would provide less security. Real estate values could be affected by, among other things, an economic slowdown, an increase in interest rates, earthquakes and other natural disasters particular to California. We are dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel may materially and adversely affect our prospects. We currently depend heavily on the services of our chairman, John Eggemeyer, our chief executive officer, Matthew Wagner, and a number of other key management personnel. The loss of Mr. Eggemeyer's or Mr. Wagner's services or that of other key personnel could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our success also depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain additional qualified management personnel. Competition for such personnel is strong in the banking industry and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining the personnel we require. We are subject to extensive regulation which could adversely affect our business. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal and state governmental authorities, and we are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of our operations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and regulations applicable to us are subject to regular modification and change. There are currently proposed laws, rules and regulations that, if adopted, would impact our operations. There can be no assurance that these proposed laws, rules and regulations, or any other laws, rules or regulations, will not be adopted in the future, which could (i) make compliance much more difficult or expensive, (ii) restrict our ability to originate, broker or sell loans or accept certain deposits, (iii) further limit or restrict the amount of commissions, interest or other charges earned on loans originated or sold by us, or (iv) otherwise adversely affect our business or prospects for business. Additionally, in order to conduct certain activities, including acquisitions, we are required to obtain regulatory approval. There can be no assurance that any required approvals can be obtained, or obtained without conditions or on a timeframe acceptable to us. For more information, please see the section entitled "Item 1. Business—Supervision and Regulation" above. We are exposed to transactional, country and legal risk related to our foreign loans that is in addition to risks we face on loans to U.S. based borrowers. A portion of our loan portfolio is represented by credit we extend and loans we make to businesses located outside the United States, predominantly in Mexico. These loans, which include commercial loans, real estate loans and credit extensions for the financing of international trade, are subject to risks in addition to risks we face with our loans to businesses located in the United States including, but not limited to transaction risk, country risk and legal risk. While these loans are denominated in U.S. dollars, the ability of the borrower to repay may be affected by fluctuations in the 20 borrower's home country currency relative to the U.S. dollar. Additionally, while most of our foreign loans are insured by U.S.-based institutions, guaranteed by a U.S.-based entity, or collateralized with U.S.-based assets or real property, our ability to collect in the event of default is subject to a number of conditions, as well as deductibles and co-payments with respect to insurance, and we may not be successful in obtaining partial or full repayment or reimbursement from the insurers. Furthermore, foreign laws may restrict our ability to foreclose on, take a security interest in, or seize collateral located in the foreign country. We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title. In the course of our business, we may own or foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our ability to pay dividends is restricted by law and contractual arrangements and depends on capital distributions from the Bank which are subject to regulatory limits. Our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders is subject to the restrictions set forth in California law. In addition, our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders is restricted in specified circumstances under indentures governing the trust preferred securities we have issued and under the revolving credit agreement to which we are a party. See "Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters—Dividends" in Part II of this Annual Report for more information on these restrictions. We cannot assure you that we will meet the criteria specified under California law or under these agreements in the future, in which case we may reduce or stop paying dividends on our common stock. The primary source of our income from which we pay dividends is the receipt of dividends from the Bank. The availability of dividends from the Bank is limited by various statutes and regulations. It is possible, depending upon the financial condition of the Bank and other factors, that the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the FDIC and/or the DFI could assert that payment of dividends or other payments is an unsafe or unsound practice. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends to us, it is likely that we, in turn, would have to reduce or stop paying dividends on our common stock. Our failure to pay dividends on our common stock could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. See "Item 1. Business—Supervision and Regulation" above for additional information on the regulatory restrictions to which we and the Bank are subject. Only a limited trading market exists for our common stock which could lead to price volatility. Our common stock was designated for quotation on The Nasdaq Stock Market in June 2000 and trading volumes since that time have been modest. The limited trading market for our common stock may cause fluctuations in the market value of our common stock to be exaggerated, leading to price volatility in excess of that which would occur in a more active trading market of our common stock. In addition, even if a more active market in our common stock develops, we cannot assure you that such a market will continue or that shareholders will be able to sell their shares. 21 Our allowance for credit losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. In accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance and a reserve for unfunded loan commitments which, when combined, we refer to as the allowance for credit losses. Our allowance for credit losses may not be adequate to cover actual credit losses, and future provisions for credit losses could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Our allowance for credit losses is based on prior experience, as well as an evaluation of the risks in the current portfolio. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. Our federal and state regulators, as an integral part of their examination process, review our loans and allowance for credit losses. While we believe our allowance for credit losses is appropriate for the risk identified in the Company's loan portfolio, we cannot assure you that we will not further increase the allowance for credit losses, that it will be sufficient to cover losses, or that regulators will not require us to increase this allowance. Any of these occurrences could materially and negatively affect our earnings. See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Part II of this Annual Report for more information. Our acquisitions may subject us to unknown risks. We have completed 19 acquisitions since May 2000, including the acquisition of two bank subsidiaries around which the Company was initially formed. Certain events may arise after the date of an acquisition, or we may learn of certain facts, events or circumstances after the closing of an acquisition, that may affect our financial condition or performance or subject us to risk of loss. These events include, but are not limited to: litigation resulting from circumstances occurring at the acquired entity prior to the date of acquisition; loan downgrades and credit loss provisions resulting from underwriting of certain acquired loans determined not to meet our credit standards; personnel changes that cause instability within a department; delays in implementing new policies or procedures, or the failure to apply new policies or procedures; and, other events relating to the performance of our business. Acquisitions involve inherent uncertainty and we cannot determine all potential events, facts and circumstances that could result in loss, or give assurances that our investigation or mitigation efforts will be sufficient to protect against any such loss. Concentrated ownership of our common stock creates a risk of sudden changes in our share price. As of February 15, 2008, directors and members of our executive management team owned or controlled approximately 10.8% of our common stock, excluding shares that may be issued to executive officers upon vesting of restricted stock awards. Investors who purchase our common stock may be subject to certain risks due to the concentrated ownership of our common stock. The sale by any of our large shareholders of a significant portion of that shareholder's holdings could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the registration of any significant amount of additional shares of our common stock will have the immediate effect of increasing the public float of our common stock and any such increase may cause the market price of our common stock to decline or fluctuate significantly. Our largest shareholder is a registered bank holding company and the activities and regulation of such shareholder may affect the permissible activities of the Company. Castle Creek Capital, LLC, which we refer to as Castle Creek, is controlled by our chairman, John M. Eggemeyer, and beneficially owned approximately 6.7% of the Company as of February 15, 2008. Castle Creek is a registered bank holding company under the BHCA and is regulated by the FRB. Under FRB guidelines, holding companies must be a "source of strength" for their subsidiaries. See "Item 1. Business—Supervision and Regulation—Bank Holding Company Regulation" above for more 22 information. Regulation of Castle Creek by the FRB may adversely affect the activities and strategic plans of the Company should the FRB determine that Castle Creek or any other company in which Castle Creek has invested has engaged in any unsafe or unsound banking practices or activities. While we have no reason to believe that the FRB is proposing to take any action with respect to Castle Creek that would adversely affect the Company, we remain subject to such risk. A natural disaster could harm the Company's business. Historically, California, in which a substantial portion of the Company's business is located, has been susceptible to natural disasters, such as earthquakes, floods and wild fires. These natural disasters could harm the Company's operations through interference with communications, including the interruption or loss of the Company's computer systems, which could prevent or impede the Company from gathering deposits, originating loans and processing and controlling its flow of business, as well as through the destruction of facilities and the Company's operational, financial and management information systems. Additionally, natural disasters could negatively impact the values of collateral securing the Company's loans and interrupt our borrowers' abilities to conduct their businesses in a manner to support their debt obligations, either of which could result in losses and increased provisions for credit losses. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 