ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Our quarterly revenue and operating results may be subject to significant fluctuations, which may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Our quarterly revenue and operating results may fluctuate significantly in the future due to a variety of factors, including the following factors which are in part within our control, and in part outside of our control: · continued adoption by companies doing business online of real-time sales, marketing and customer service solutions; · continued adoption by individual experts and consumers of online real-time advice services; · changes in our pricing models, policies or the pricing policies of our current and future competitors; · our clients’ business success; · our clients’ demand for our services; · consumer demand for our services; · our ability to attract and retain clients; · the amount and timing of capital expenditures and other costs relating to the expansion of our operations, including those related to acquisitions; and · the introduction of new services by us or our competitors. Our revenue and results may also fluctuate significantly in the future due to the following factors that are entirely outside of our control: · economic conditions specific to the Internet, electronic commerce and online media; and · general economic and political conditions. Period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful because of these factors. You should not rely upon these comparisons as indicators of our future performance. Due to the foregoing factors, it is possible that our results of operations in one or more future quarters may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. If this occurs, the trading price of our common stock could decline. We may be unable to respond to the rapid technological change and changing client preferences in the online sales, marketing, customer service, and/or online consumer services industries and this may harm our business. 12 If we are unable, for technological, legal, financial or other reasons, to adapt in a timely manner to changing market conditions in the online sales, marketing, customer service and/or e-commerce industry or our clients’ or Internet users’ requirements or preferences, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. Business on the Internet is characterized by rapid technological change. In addition, the market for online sales, marketing, customer service and expert advice solutions is relatively new. Sudden changes in client and Internet user requirements and preferences, frequent new product and service introductions embodying new technologies, such as broadband communications, and the emergence of new industry standards and practices could render the LivePerson services and our proprietary technology and systems obsolete. The rapid evolution of these products and services will require that we continually improve the performance, features and reliability of our services. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to: · enhance the features and performance of our services; · develop and offer new services that are valuable to companies doing business online as well as Internet users; and · respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices in a cost-effective and timely manner. If any of our new services, including upgrades to our current services, do not meet our clients’ or Internet users’ expectations, our business may be harmed. Updating our technology may require significant additional capital expenditures and could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. If new services require us to grow rapidly, this could place a significant strain on our managerial, operational, technical and financial resources. In order to manage our growth, we could be required to implement new or upgraded operating and financial systems, procedures and controls. Our failure to expand our operations in an efficient manner could cause our expenses to grow, our revenue to decline or grow more slowly than expected and could otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are not competitive in the market for real-time sales, marketing and customer service solutions, or online consumer services our business could be harmed. The market for online sales, marketing and customer service technology is intensely competitive and characterized by aggressive marketing, evolving industry standards, rapid technology developments and frequent new product introductions. Established or new entities may enter the market in the near future, including those that provide solutions for real-time interaction online, or online consumer services related to real-time advice. We compete directly with companies focused on technology that facilitates real-time sales, email management, searchable knowledgebase applications, and customer service interaction. These markets remain fairly saturated with small companies that compete on price and features. We face significant competition from online interaction solution providers, including SaaS providers: RightNow Technologies, Art Technology Group and Instant Service. We face potential competition from Web analytics and online marketing service providers, such as Omniture. The most significant barriers to entry in this market are knowledge of: · online consumer purchasing habits; · methodologies to efficiently engage customers and consumers; · metrics proving return on investment; and · technology innovation opportunities. Furthermore, many of our competitors offer a broader range of customer relationship management products and services than we currently offer. We may be disadvantaged and our business may be harmed if companies doing business online choose real-time sales, marketing and customer service solutions from such providers. 13 We also face potential competition from larger enterprise software companies such as Oracle. In addition, established technology companies such as Microsoft, Yahoo and Google may leverage their existing relationships and capabilities to offer real-time sales, marketing and customer service applications or consumer services similar to our consumer offerings. Finally, we compete with clients and potential clients that choose to provide a real-time sales, marketing and customer service solution in-house as well as, to a lesser extent, traditional offline customer service solutions, such as telephone call centers. We believe that competition will increase as our current competitors increase the sophistication of their offerings and as new participants enter the market. As compared to our company, some of our larger current and potential competitors have: · greater brand recognition; · more diversified lines of products and services; and · significantly greater financial, marketing and research and development resources. Additionally, some competitors may enter into strategic or commercial relationships with larger, more established and better-financed companies. These competitors may be able to: · undertake more extensive marketing campaigns; · adopt more aggressive pricing policies; and · make more attractive offers to businesses or individuals to induce them to use their products or services. Any delay in the general market acceptance of the real-time sales, marketing and customer service solution business model or in online, real-time consumer advice services would likely harm our competitive position. Delays would allow our competitors additional time to improve their service or product offerings, and would also provide time for new competitors to develop real-time sales, marketing, customer service and Web analytics applications or competitive consumer service offerings and solicit prospective clients within our target markets. Increased competition could result in pricing pressures, reduced operating margins and loss of market share. Our clients may experience adverse business conditions that could adversely affect our business. Some of our clients may experience difficulty in supporting their current operations and implementing their business plans. These clients may reduce their spending on our services, or may not be able to discharge their payment and other obligations to us. These circumstances are influenced by general economic and industry-specific conditions, and could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 In addition, as a result of these conditions, our clients that may experience (or that anticipate experiencing) difficulty raising capital, may elect to scale back the resources they devote to customer service and/or sales and marketing technology, including services such as ours. If the current environment for our clients, including, in particular, our Internet-related clients, does not improve, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the non-payment or late payment of amounts due to us from a significant number of clients would negatively impact our financial condition. During 2007, we increased our allowance for doubtful accounts by $103,000 to approximately $208,000, principally due to an increase in accounts receivable as a result of increased sales. During 2006, we increased our allowance for doubtful accounts by $38,000 to approximately $105,000, principally due to an increase in accounts receivable as a result of increased sales. If we do not successfully integrate past or potential future acquisitions, our business could be harmed. We have a history of making acquisitions. Most recently, in October 2007, we acquired Kasamba Inc., an Israeli-based provider of a platform for online, real-time expert advice. In the future, we may acquire or invest in complementary companies, products or technologies. Acquisitions and investments involve numerous risks to us, including: · difficulties in integrating operations, technologies, products and personnel with LivePerson; · diversion of financial and management resources from efforts related to the LivePerson services or other pre-existing operations; risks of entering new markets beyond providing real-time sales, marketing and customer service solutions for companies doing business online; · potential loss of either our existing key employees or key employees of any companies we acquire; and · our inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition or investment costs. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses and adversely affect our results of operations. Furthermore, we may incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisitions. The issuance of equity securities could be dilutive to our existing stockholders. We could face additional regulatory requirements, tax liabilities and other risks as we expand internationally and/or as we expand into direct-to-consumer services. In October 2007, we acquired Kasamba Inc., an Israeli-based provider of a platform for online, real-time expert advice. In October 2000, we acquired HumanClick, an Israeli-based provider of real-time online customer service applications. In addition, we have established a sales, marketing and client support presence in the United Kingdom in support of expansion efforts into Western Europe, and have integrated the United Kingdom operations of Proficient Systems into that office. There are risks related to doing business in international markets as well as in the online consumer market, such as changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, more stringent rules relating to the privacy of Internet users and adverse tax consequences. In addition, there are likely to be different consumer preferences and requirements in specific international markets. Furthermore, we may face difficulties in staffing and managing any foreign operations. One or more of these factors could harm any future international operations. 15 If our goodwill becomes impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., we review our goodwill for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates in our industry. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill is determined, negatively impacting our results of operations. The success of our business is dependent on the retention of existing clients and their purchase of additional services, as well as attracting new customers and consumer users to our consumer services. Our business services agreements typically have twelve month terms and are terminable upon 30 to 90 days’ notice without penalty. If a significant number of our clients, or any one client to whom we provide a significant amount of services, were to terminate these services agreements, or reduce the amount of services purchased or fail to purchase additional services, our results of operations may be negatively and materially affected. Dissatisfaction with the nature or quality of our services could also lead clients to terminate our service. We depend on monthly fees and interaction-based fees from our services for substantially all of our revenue. If our retention rate declines, our revenue could decline unless we are able to obtain additional clients or alternate revenue sources. Further, because of the historically small amount of services sold in initial orders, we depend on sales to new clients and sales of additional services to our existing clients. We are dependent on technology systems and third-party content that are beyond our control. The success of our services depends in part on our clients’ online services as well as the Internet connections of visitors to websites, both of which are outside of our control. As a result, it may be difficult to identify the source of problems if they occur. In the past, we have experienced problems related to connectivity which have resulted in slower than normal response times to Internet user chat requests and messages and interruptions in service. Our services rely both on the Internet and on our connectivity vendors for data transmission. Therefore, even when connectivity problems are not caused by our services, our clients or Internet users may attribute the problem to us. This could diminish our brand and harm our business, divert the attention of our technical personnel from our product development efforts or cause significant client relations problems. In addition, we rely on third-party Web hosting service providers and other third parties for Internet connectivity and network infrastructure hosting, security and maintenance. These providers have, in the past, experienced problems that have resulted in slower than normal response times and interruptions in service. If we are unable to continue utilizing the services of our existing Web hosting and infrastructure providers or if our services experience interruptions or delays, our business could be harmed. 16 Our business service also depends on third parties for hardware and software and our consumer services depend on third parties for content, which products and content could contain defects or inaccurate information. Problems arising from our use of such hardware or software or third party content could require us to incur significant costs or divert the attention of our technical or other personnel from our product development efforts or to manage issues related to content. To the extent any such problems require us to replace such hardware or software, we may not be able to do so on acceptable terms, if at all. We may be subject to legal liability and/or negative publicity for the services provided to consumers via our technology platforms. Our technology platforms enable representatives of our clients as well as individual service providers to communicate with consumers and other persons seeking information or advice on the world wide web. The law relating to the liability of online platform providers such as us for the activities of users of their online platforms is often challenged in the U.S. and internationally. We may be unable to prevent users of our technology platforms from providing negligent, unlawful or inappropriate advice, information or content via our technology platforms, or from behaving in an unlawful manner, and we may be subject to allegations of civil or criminal liability for negligent, fraudulent, unlawful or inappropriate activities carried out by users of our technology platforms. Claims could be made against online services companies under both U.S. and foreign law such as fraud, defamation, libel, invasion of privacy, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, or other theories based on the nature and content of the materials disseminated by users of our technology platforms. In addition, domestic and foreign legislation has been proposed that would prohibit or impose liability for the transmission over the Internet of certain types of information. Our defense of any of these actions could be costly and involve significant time and attention of our management and other resources. The Digital Millennium Copyright Act, or DMCA, is intended, among other things, to reduce the liability of online service providers for listing or linking to third party Web properties that include materials that infringe copyrights or rights of others. Additionally, portions of The Communications Decency Act, or CDA, are intended to provide statutory protections to online service providers who distribute third party content. A safe harbor for copyright infringement is also available under the DMCA to certain online service providers that provide specific services, if the providers take certain affirmative steps as set forth in the DMCA. Important questions regarding the safe harbor under the DMCA and the CDA have yet to be litigated, and we can not guarantee that we will meet the safe harbor requirements of the DMCA or of the CDA. If we are not covered by a safe harbor, for any reason, we could be exposed to claims, which could be costly and time-consuming to defend. Our consumer service allows consumers to provide feedback regarding service providers. Although all such feedback is generated by users and not by us, claims of defamation or other injury could be made against us for content posted on our websites. Our liability for such claims may be higher in jurisdictions outside the U.S. where laws governing Internet transactions are unsettled. If we become liable for information provided by our users and carried via our service in any jurisdiction in which we operate, we could be directly harmed and we may be forced to implement new measures to reduce our exposure to this liability. In addition, the increased attention focused upon liability issues as a result of these lawsuits and legislative proposals could harm our reputation or otherwise impact the growth of our business. Any costs incurred as a result of this potential liability could harm our business. 17 In addition, negative publicity and user sentiment generated as a result of fraudulent or deceptive conduct by users of our technology platforms could damage our reputation, reduce our ability to attract new users or retain our current users, and diminish the value of our brand. In the future, we may be required to spend substantial resources to take additional protective measures or discontinue certain service offerings, any of which could harm our business. Any costs incurred as a result of potential liability relating to the sale of unlawful services or the unlawful sale of services could harm our business. Our services are subject to payment-related risks. For certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating costs and lower our profit margins. We rely on third parties to provide payment processing services, including the processing of credit cards, debit cards and it could disrupt our business if these companies become unwilling or unable to provide these services to us. We are also subject to payment card association operating rules, certification requirements and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. If we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, we may be subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept credit and debit card payments from our customers or facilitate other types of online payments, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. With the acquisition of Kasamba, we facilitate online transactions between individual service providers who provide online advice and information to consumers. In connection with these services, we accept payments using a variety of methods, such as credit card, debit card and PayPal. These payments are subject to “chargebacks” when consumers dispute payments they have made to us. Chargebacks can occur whether or not services were properly provided. Susceptibility to chargebacks puts a portion of our revenue at risk. We take measures to manage our risk relative to chargebacks and to recoup properly charged fees, however, if we are unable to successfully manage this risk our business and operating results could be adversely affected. As we offer new payment options to our users, we may be subject to additional regulations, compliance requirements, and fraud. We are also subject to a number of other laws and regulations relating to money laundering, international money transfers, privacy and information security and electronic fund transfers. If we were found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties or forced to cease our payments services business. Technological or other defects could disrupt or negatively impact our services, which could harm our business and reputation. We face risks related to the technological capabilities of our services. We expect the number of interactions between our clients’ operators and Internet users over our system to increase significantly as we expand our client base. Our network hardware and software may not be able to accommodate this additional volume. Additionally, we must continually upgrade our software to improve the features and functionality of our services in order to be competitive in our markets. If future versions of our software contain undetected errors, our business could be harmed. If third-party content is flawed, our business could be harmed. As a result of major software upgrades at LivePerson, our client sites have, from time to time, experienced slower than normal response times and interruptions in service. If we experience system failures or degraded response times, our reputation and brand could be harmed. We may also experience technical problems in the process of installing and initiating the LivePerson services on new Web hosting services. These problems, if not remedied, could harm our business. 18 Our services also depend on complex software which may contain defects, particularly when we introduce new versions onto our servers. We may not discover software defects that affect our new or current services or enhancements until after they are deployed. It is possible that, despite testing by us, defects may occur in the software. These defects could result in: · damage to our reputation; · lost sales; · delays in or loss of market acceptance of our products; and · unexpected expenses and diversion of resources to remedy errors. We have a history of losses, we had an accumulated deficit of $93.4 million as of December 31, 2007 and we may incur losses in the future. Although we have achieved profitability in each three-month period from and including the period ended September 30, 2003, we may, in the future, incur losses and experience negative cash flow, either or both of which may be significant. We recorded net losses of $6.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 and $816,000 for the year ended December 31, 2003. We recorded net income of $2.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, $2.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, $2.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, and $5.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. As of December 31, 2007, our accumulated deficit was approximately $93.4 million. We cannot assure you that we can sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. Failure to maintain profitability may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Failure to license necessary third party software for use in our products and services, or failure to successfully integrate third party software, could cause delays or reductions in our sales, or errors or failures of our service. We license third party software that we plan to incorporate into our products and services. In the future, we might need to license other software to enhance our products and meet evolving customer requirements. These licenses may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Some of this technology could be difficult to replace once integrated. The loss of, or inability to obtain, these licenses could result in delays or reductions of our applications until we identify, license and integrate or develop equivalent software, and new licenses could require us to pay higher royalties. If we are unable to successfully license and integrate third party technology, we could experience a reduction in functionality and/or errors or failures of our products, which may reduce demand for our products and services. Third-party licenses may expose us to increased risks, including risks associated with the integration of new technology, the impact of new technology integration on our existing technology, the diversion of resources from the development of our own proprietary technology, and our inability to generate revenue from new technology sufficient to offset associated acquisition and maintenance costs. Our business is significantly dependent on our ability to retain our current key personnel, to attract new personnel, and to manage staff attrition. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued services of our senior management team, including Robert P. LoCascio, our founder and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of any member of our senior management team, in particular Mr. LoCascio, could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We cannot assure you that we would be able to successfully integrate newly-hired senior managers who would work together successfully with our existing management team. 19 We may be unable to attract, integrate or retain other highly qualified employees in the future. If our retention efforts are ineffective, employee turnover could increase and our ability to provide services to our clients would be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, the requirement to expense stock options may discourage us from granting the size or type of stock option awards that job candidates may require to join our company Any staff attrition we experience, whether initiated by the departing employees or by us, could place a significant strain on our managerial, operational, financial and other resources. To the extent that we do not initiate or seek any staff attrition that occurs, there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify and hire adequate replacement staff promptly, if at all, and even that if such staff is replaced, we will be successful in integrating these employees. In addition, we may not be able to outsource certain functions. We expect to evaluate our needs and the performance of our staff on a periodic basis, and may choose to make adjustments in the future. If the size of our staff is significantly reduced, either by our choice or otherwise, it may become more difficult for us to manage existing, or establish new, relationships with clients and other counter-parties, or to expand and improve our service offerings. It may also become more difficult for us to implement changes to our business plan or to respond promptly to opportunities in the marketplace. Further, it may become more difficult for us to devote personnel resources necessary to maintain or improve existing systems, including our financial and managerial controls, billing systems, reporting systems and procedures. Thus, any significant amount of staff attrition could cause our business and financial results to suffer. We believe our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. are subject to interpretation by the FASB, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC, and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. For example, as of January 1, 2006 we were required to adopt the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R) (revised 2004), “Share Based Payment,” causing us to expense employee stock options. This change decreased our net income per share by $0.08 and $0.05 for the years ended 2007 and 2006, respectively. We expect that it will decrease our net income per share by $0.02 and $0.11 for the first quarter and full year of 2008, respectively. This impact may change based upon additional stock option grants, if any, methodology refinement or other factors We cannot predict our future capital needs to execute our business strategy and we may not be able to secure additional financing. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents and cash generated from operations, if any, will be sufficient to fund our working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next twelve months. To the extent that we require additional funds to support our operations or the expansion of our business, or to pay for acquisitions, we may need to sell additional equity, issue debt or convertible securities or obtain credit facilities through financial institutions. In the past, we have obtained financing principally through the sale of preferred stock, common stock and warrants. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of debt or preferred equity securities, these securities could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to holders of common stock, and could have terms that impose restrictions on our operations. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of additional equity or convertible securities, our stockholders could suffer dilution. We cannot assure you that additional funding, if required, will be available to us in amounts or on terms acceptable to us. If sufficient funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, our ability to fund any potential expansion, take advantage of acquisition opportunities, develop or enhance our services or products, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. Those limitations would materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 20 Our reputation depends, in part, on factors which are partially or entirely outside of our control. Our services typically appear as a LivePerson-branded, Timpani-branded or a custom-created icon on our clients’ websites or our websites. The customer service operators who respond to the inquiries of our clients’ Internet users are employees or agents of our clients; they are not our employees. The experts who respond to the inquiries of Internet users are independent consultants or agents of our clients; they are not our employees. As a result, we are not able to control the actions of these operators or experts. In addition, an Internet user may not know that the operator or expert is not a LivePerson employee. If an Internet user were to have a negative experience in a LivePerson-powered real-time dialogue, it is possible that this experience could be attributed to us, which could diminish our brand and harm our business. Finally, we believe the success of our business services is aided by the prominent placement of the chat icon on a client’s website, over which we also have no control. Our business and prospects would suffer if we are unable to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights. Our success and ability to compete depend, in part, upon the protection of our intellectual property rights relating to the technology underlying the LivePerson services. It is possible that: · any issued patent or patents issued in the future may not be broad enough to protect our intellectual property rights; · any issued patent or any patents issued in the future could be successfully challenged by one or more third parties, which could result in our loss of the right to prevent others from exploiting the inventions claimed in the patents; · current and future competitors may independently develop similar technologies, duplicate our services or design around any patents we may have; and · effective patent protection may not be available in every country in which we do business, where our services are sold or used, where the laws may not protect proprietary rights as fully as do the laws of the U.S. or where enforcement of laws protecting proprietary rights is not common or effective. Further, to the extent that the invention described in any U.S. patent was made public prior to the filing of the patent application, we may not be able to obtain patent protection in certain foreign countries. We also rely upon copyright, trade secret, trademark and other common law in the U.S. and other jurisdictions, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions, to protect our proprietary technology, processes and other intellectual property. Any steps we might take may not be adequate to protect against infringement and misappropriation of our intellectual property by third parties. Similarly, third parties may be able to independently develop similar or superior technology, processes or other intellectual property. Policing unauthorized use of our services and intellectual property rights is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation of our technology or intellectual property rights, particularly in foreign countries where we do business, where our services are sold or used, where the laws may not protect proprietary rights as fully as do the laws of the United States or where enforcement of laws protecting proprietary rights is not common or effective. The unauthorized reproduction or other misappropriation of our intellectual property rights could enable third parties to benefit from our technology without paying us for it. If this occurs, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, disputes concerning the ownership or rights to use intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming to litigate, may distract management from operating our business and may result in our loss of significant rights. 21 Our products and services may infringe upon intellectual property rights of third parties and any infringement could require us to incur substantial costs and may distract our management. We are subject to the risk of claims alleging infringement of third-party proprietary rights. Substantial litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in the software industry. In the ordinary course of our business, our services may be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of services in different industry segments overlaps. Some of our competitors in the market for real-time sales, marketing and customer service solutions or other third parties may have filed or may intend to file patent applications covering aspects of their technology. Any claims alleging infringement of third-party intellectual property rights could require us to spend significant amounts in litigation (even if the claim is invalid), distract management from other tasks of operating our business, pay substantial damage awards, prevent us from selling our products, delay delivery of the LivePerson services, develop non-infringing software, technology, business processes, systems or other intellectual property (none of which might be successful), or limit our ability to use the intellectual property that is the subject of any of these claims, unless we enter into license agreements with the third parties (which may be costly, unavailable on commercially reasonable terms, or not available at all). Therefore, such claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be liable if third parties misappropriate personal information belonging to our clients’ Internet users. We maintain dialogue transcripts of the text-based chats and email interactions between our clients and Internet users and store on our servers information supplied voluntarily by these Internet users in surveys. We provide this information to our clients to allow them to perform Internet user analyses and monitor the effectiveness of our services. Some of the information we collect may include personal information, such as contact and demographic information. If third parties were able to penetrate our network security or otherwise misappropriate personal information relating to our clients’ Internet users or the text of customer service inquiries, we could be subject to liability. We could be subject to negligence claims or claims for misuse of personal information. These claims could result in litigation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may incur significant costs to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. The need to physically secure and securely transmit confidential information online has been a significant barrier to electronic commerce and online communications. Any well-publicized compromise of security could deter people from using online services such as the ones we offer, or from using them to conduct transactions, which involve transmitting confidential information. Because our success depends on the general acceptance of our services and electronic commerce, we may incur significant costs to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. 22 Political, economic and military conditions in Israel could negatively impact our Israeli operations. Our product development staff, help desk, online sales support and the Kasamba operations are located in Israel. As of December 31, 2007, we had 217 full-time employees in Israel. Although substantially all of our sales to date have been made to customers outside Israel, we are directly influenced by the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors. A state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has caused security and economic problems in Israel. Since September 2000, there has been a marked increase in violence, civil unrest and hostility, including armed clashes, between the State of Israel and the Palestinians, primarily but not exclusively in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, and negotiations between the State of Israel and Palestinian representatives have effectively ceased. The election of representatives of the Hamas movement to a majority of seats in the Palestinian Legislative Council in January 2006 created additional unrest and uncertainty. In July and August of 2006, Israel was involved in a full-scale armed conflict with Hezbollah, a Lebanese Islamist Shiite militia group and political party, in southern Lebanon, which involved missile strikes against civilian targets in northern Israel that resulted in economic losses. Since June 2007, there has been an escalation in violence in the Gaza Strip. Continued hostilities between Israel and its neighbors and any future armed conflict, terrorist activities or political instability in the region could adversely affect our operations in Israel and our business. Further deterioration of the situation might require more widespread military reserve service by some of our Israeli employees and might result in a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations in Israel and our business. In addition, several Arab countries still restrict business with Israeli companies. Our operations in Israel could be adversely affected by restrictive laws or policies directed towards Israel and Israeli businesses. Risks Related to Our Industry We are dependent on the continued use of the Internet as a medium for commerce. We cannot be sure that a sufficiently broad base of consumers will continue to use the Internet as a medium for commerce. Convincing our clients to offer real-time sales, marketing and customer service technology may be difficult. The continuation of the Internet as a viable commercial marketplace is subject to a number of factors, including: · continued growth in the number of users; · concerns about transaction security; · continued development of the necessary technological infrastructure; · development of enabling technologies; · uncertain and increasing government regulation; and · the development of complementary services and products. We may become subject to burdensome government regulation and legal uncertainties. We are subject to federal, state and local regulation, and laws of jurisdictions outside of the United States, including laws and regulations applicable to computer software and access to or commerce over the Internet. Due to the increasing popularity and use of the Internet and various other online services, it is likely that new laws and regulations will continue to be adopted with respect to the Internet - or other online services covering issues such as user privacy, freedom of expression, pricing, content and quality of products and services, taxation, advertising, intellectual property rights and information security. The nature of such legislation and the manner in which it may be interpreted and enforced cannot be fully determined and, therefore, such legislation could subject us and/or our clients or Internet users to potential liability, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 23 As a result of collecting data from live online Internet user dialogues, our clients may be able to analyze the commercial habits of Internet users. Privacy concerns may cause Internet users to avoid online sites that collect such behavioral information and even the perception of security and privacy concerns, whether or not valid, may indirectly inhibit market acceptance of our services. In addition, we or our clients may be harmed by any laws or regulations that restrict the ability to collect, transmit or use this data. The European Union and many countries within the E.U. have adopted privacy directives or laws that strictly regulate the collection and use of personally identifiable information of Internet users. The United States has adopted legislation which governs the collection and use of certain personal information. The U.S. Federal Trade Commission has also taken action against website operators who do not comply with their stated privacy policies. Furthermore, other foreign jurisdictions have adopted legislation governing the collection and use of personal information. These and other governmental efforts may limit our clients’ ability to collect and use information about their interactions with their Internet users through our services. As a result, such laws and efforts could create uncertainty in the marketplace that could reduce demand for our services or increase the cost of doing business as a result of litigation costs or increased service delivery costs, or could in some other manner have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, the LivePerson services allow our clients to capture and save information about their Internet user interactions, possibly without their knowledge. Additionally, our service uses a tool, commonly referred to as a “cookie,” to uniquely identify each of our clients’ Internet users. To the extent that additional legislation regarding Internet user privacy is enacted, such as legislation governing the collection and use of information regarding Internet users through the use of cookies, the effectiveness of the LivePerson services could be impaired by restricting us from collecting information which may be valuable to our clients. The foregoing could have a material adverse effect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition to privacy legislation, any new legislation or regulation regarding the Internet, or the application of existing laws and regulations to the Internet, could harm us. Additionally, as we operate outside the U.S., the international regulatory environment relating to the Internet could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Security concerns could hinder commerce on the Internet. User concerns about the security of confidential information online have been a significant barrier to commerce on the Internet and online communications. Any well-publicized compromise of security could deter people from using the Internet or other online services or from using them to conduct transactions that involve the transmission of confidential information. If Internet commerce is inhibited as a result of such security concerns, our business would be harmed. 24 We depend on the continued viability of the infrastructure of the Internet. To the extent that the Internet continues to experience growth in the number of users and frequency of use by consumers resulting in increased bandwidth demands, we cannot assure you that the infrastructure for the Internet will be able to support the demands placed upon it. The Internet has experienced outages and delays as a result of damage to portions of its infrastructure. Outages or delays could adversely affect online sites, email and the level of traffic on the Internet. We also depend on Internet service providers that provide our clients and Internet users with access to the LivePerson services. In the past, users have experienced difficulties due to system failures unrelated to our service. In addition, the Internet could lose its viability due to delays in the adoption of new standards and protocols required to handle increased levels of Internet activity. Insufficient availability of telecommunications services to support the Internet also could result in slower response times and negatively impact use of the Internet generally, and our clients’ sites (including the LivePerson dialogue windows) in particular. If the use of the Internet fails to grow or grows more slowly than expected, if the infrastructure for the Internet does not effectively support growth that may occur or if the Internet does not become a viable commercial marketplace, we may not maintain profitability and our business, results of operations and financial condition will suffer. Other Risks Our stock price has been highly volatile and may experience extreme price and volume fluctuations in the future, which could reduce the value of your investment and subject us to litigation. Fluctuations in market price and volume are particularly common among securities of Internet and other technology companies. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and may continue to be highly volatile, with extreme price and volume fluctuations, in response to the following factors, some of which are beyond our control: · variations in our quarterly operating results; · changes in market valuations of publicly-traded companies in general and Internet and other technology companies in particular; · our announcements of significant client contracts, acquisitions and our ability to integrate these acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · our failure to complete significant sales; · additions or departures of key personnel; · future sales of our common stock; · changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; and · terrorist attacks against the United States or in Israel, the engagement in hostilities or an escalation of hostilities by or against the United States or Israel, or the declaration of war or national emergency by the United States or Israel. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the subject of securities class action litigation. We may in the future be the target of similar litigation, which could result in substantial costs and distract management from other important aspects of operating our business. 25 Our stockholders, who each own greater than five percent of the outstanding common stock, and our executive officers and directors, will be able to influence matters requiring a stockholder vote. Our stockholders who each own greater than five percent of the outstanding common stock and their affiliates, and our executive officers and directors, in the aggregate, beneficially own approximately 48.3% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, if acting together, will be able to significantly influence all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership could also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. The future sale of shares of our common stock may negatively affect our stock price. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock, including shares issuable upon the exercise of outstanding options and warrants in the public market, or if our stockholders are perceived by the market as intending to sell substantial amounts of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could fall. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. The number of shares of common stock subject to the registration statement we filed in January 2004, registering our issuance and sale from time to time of up to 4,000,000 shares of common stock, is much greater than the average weekly trading volume for our shares. No prediction can be made as to the effect, if any, that market sales of these or other shares of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may make it difficult for a third party to acquire us. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, such as our staggered Board of Directors, the manner in which director vacancies may be filled and provisions regarding the calling of stockholder meetings, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders. In addition, provisions of our amended and restated bylaws, such as advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals, and applicable provisions of Delaware law, such as the application of business combination limitations, could impose similar difficulties. Further, provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation relating to directors, stockholder meetings, limitation of director liability, indemnification and amendment of the certificate of incorporation and bylaws may not be amended without the affirmative vote of not less than 66.67% of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (considered for this purpose as a single class) cast at a meeting of our stockholders called for that purpose. Our amended and restated bylaws may not be amended without the affirmative vote of at least 66.67% of our Board of Directors or without the affirmative vote of not less than 66.67% of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (considered for this purpose as a single class) cast at a meeting of our stockholders called for that purpose. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 26 