Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may adversely impact our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. The continued decline of our consumer access subscribers, combined with the change in mix of our consumer access subscriber base from narrowband to broadband, will adversely affect our results of operations. Our consumer access revenues consist primarily of narrowband access revenues and broadband access revenues. Our narrowband subscriber base and revenues have been declining and are expected to continue to decline due to the continued maturation of the market for narrowband access. Consumers continue to migrate to broadband due to the faster connection and download speeds provided by broadband access, the ability to free up their phone lines and the more reliable and "always on" connection. The pricing for broadband services has been declining, making it a more viable option for consumers that continue to rely on dial-up connections for Internet access. In addition, advanced applications such as online gaming, music downloads, videos and social networking require greater bandwidth for optimal performance, which adds to the demand for broadband access. We expect our narrowband subscriber base and revenues to continue to decline, which will adversely affect our profitability and results of operations. In light of this continued maturation of the market for narrowband access, we refocused our business strategy to significantly reduce our sales and marketing efforts and focus instead on retaining tenured customers and adding customers that have similar characteristics of our tenured customer base and are more likely to produce an acceptable rate of return. This change has resulted in a decrease in gross subscriber additions. If we do not maintain our relationships with current customers or acquire new customers, our revenues will continue to decline and our profitability will be adversely affected. In addition, our results of operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to align operating costs with our revenue trends. Changes in the mix of our consumer access subscriber base, from narrowband access to broadband access, have also negatively affected our consumer access profitability. Our consumer broadband access revenues have lower gross margins due to the costs associated with delivering broadband services. Our ability to provide these services profitably is dependent upon cost-effectively purchasing wholesale broadband access and managing the costs associated with delivering broadband services. The costs associated with delivering broadband services include recurring service costs such as telecommunications and customer support costs as well as costs incurred to add new broadband customers, such as sales and marketing and installation and hardware costs. While we continuously evaluate cost reduction opportunities associated with the delivery of broadband access services to improve our profitability, our overall profitability would be adversely affected if we are unable to continue to manage and reduce recurring service costs associated with the delivery of broadband services and costs incurred to add new broadband customers. A further change in the mix in our customer base from narrowband access to broadband access would also adversely affect our profitability and results of operations. We face significant competition that could reduce our profitability. We face significant competition in the markets in which we operate and we expect this competition to intensify. The intense competition from our competitors could decrease the number of subscribers we are able to add, increase churn of our existing customers, increase operating costs or cause us to reduce prices, which would result in lower revenues and profits. 11 Table of Contents Consumer Services Segment Internet access services. We operate in the Internet access services market, which is extremely competitive. We compete directly or indirectly with established online services companies, such as AOL and the Microsoft Network (MSN); national communications companies and local exchange carriers, such as AT&T, Verizon and Qwest; cable companies providing broadband access, including Time Warner Cable, Comcast, Charter Communications, Inc. and Cox Communications, Inc.; local and regional ISPs; free or value-priced ISPs, such as United Online which provides service under the brands NetZero and Juno; wireless Internet service providers; content companies, such as Yahoo! and Google; and satellite and fixed wireless service providers. Competition in the market for Internet access services is likely to continue increasing, and competition could impact the pricing of our services, sales and marketing costs to retain existing or acquire new subscribers and the number of customers that discontinue using our services, or churn. Prices for certain of our consumer access services, particularly our consumer broadband services, have been decreasing. We expect that we may continue to experience pricing pressures due to competition, volume-based pricing and other factors. Some providers have reduced and may continue to reduce the retail price of their Internet access services to maintain or increase their market share, which could cause us to reduce, or prevent us from raising, our prices. We may encounter further market pressures to: migrate existing customers to lower-priced service offering packages; restructure service offering packages to offer more value; reduce prices; and respond to particular short-term, market-specific situations, such as special introductory pricing or new product or service offerings. Any of the above could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Current and prospective competitors include many large companies that have substantially greater market presence and greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have. In addition, some of our competitors are able to bundle other content, services and products with Internet access services. These services include various forms of voice, data and video services and wireless communications. The ability to bundle services, as well as the financial strength and the benefits of scale enjoyed by certain of these competitors, enable them to offer services at prices that are below the prices at which we can offer comparable services. We believe the primary competitive factors in the Internet access service industry are price, speed, features, coverage area and quality of service. While we believe our Internet access services compete favorably based on these factors when compared to many Internet access providers, we are at a competitive disadvantage relative to some or all of these factors with respect to some of our competitors. Our dial-up Internet access services do not compete favorably with broadband services with respect to speed, and dial-up Internet access services no longer have a significant, if any, price advantage over certain broadband services. Most of the largest providers of broadband services, such as cable and telecommunications companies, control their own networks and offer a wider variety of services than we offer, including voice, data and video services. Their ability to bundle services and to offer broadband services at prices below the price that we can profitably offer comparable services puts us at a competitive disadvantage. Other services. The companies we compete with for Internet access services also compete with us for subscribers to value-added services, such as email storage and security products. We compete for advertising revenues with major ISPs, content providers, large web publishers, web search engine and portal companies, Internet advertising providers, content aggregation companies, social-networking web sites, and various other companies that facilitate Internet advertising. Competition in the market for advertising services may impact the rates we charge. Competitors for our VoIP services include established telecommunications and cable companies; Internet access service companies; leading Internet companies; and companies that offer VoIP services as their primary business, such as Vonage. The market for VoIP services is intensely competitive and characterized by technological change. 12 Table of Contents Business Services Segment We build and manage private IP-based wide area networks for businesses and communications carriers. We also provide Internet access to small and medium-sized businesses. We face significant competition in these markets and we expect this competition to intensify. These markets are rapidly changing due to industry consolidation, an evolving regulatory environment and the emergence of new technologies. We compete directly or indirectly with ILECs, such as Verizon, Qwest and AT&T; other competitive telecommunications companies, such as Covad, XO Holdings, Level 3 Communications and Megapath; interexchange carriers, such as Sprint Nextel; wireless and satellite service providers; and cable service providers, such as Comcast Corporation, Cox Communications, Inc., Time Warner Cable and Charter Communications, Inc. We believe the primary competitive factors in our business markets include price, availability, reliability of service, network security, variety of service offerings, quality of service and reputation of the service provider. While we believe our business services compete favorably based on these factors, we are at a competitive disadvantage relative to some or all of these factors with respect to some of our competitors. The market for telecommunications services, particularly local exchange services, remains dominated by the ILECs, each of which owns the majority of the local exchange network in its respective operating region of the U.S. Each ILEC has significantly more resources available to expand its penetration within the operating regions where we compete. In addition, industry consolidation has resulted in larger competitors that may have greater economies of scale and are likely to result in the combined companies becoming even more formidable competitors. Additionally, new competitors such as VoIP providers and cable companies have entered the market to compete with traditional, facilities-based telecommunications services providers. We also provide web hosting services to customers wishing to have an Internet or electronic commerce presence. The web hosting market is highly fragmented, has low barriers to entry and is characterized by considerable competition on price and features. We compete directly or indirectly with a number of significant companies, some of which have substantially greater market presence and greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have. Adverse economic conditions may harm our business. Economic conditions have been deteriorating and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. Unfavorable economic conditions, including recession and recent disruptions to the credit and financial markets, could cause customers to slow spending. Our consumer access services are discretionary and dependent upon levels of consumer spending. In addition, we believe our small and medium-sized business customers are particularly exposed to an economic downturn. If demand for our services decreases, corporate spending for our services decreases or the downsizing by business customers of their businesses increases, our revenues would be adversely affected and churn may increase, and we may not be able to align our cost structure with a decline in our revenue. In addition, during challenging economic times our business customers may face issues gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which may impair the ability of our customers to pay for services they have purchased. Any of the above could cause us to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable, to impair amounts capitalized as intangible assets, including goodwill, or otherwise have a material effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We are also susceptible to risks associated with the potential financial instability of the vendors and third parties on which we rely to provide services or to which we outsource certain functions. The same economic conditions that may affect our customers also could adversely affect vendors and third parties and lead to significant increases in prices, reduction in quality or the bankruptcy of our vendors or third parties upon which we rely. Any interruption in the services provided by our vendors or by third parties could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 13 Table of Contents As a result of our continuing review of our business, we may have to undertake further restructuring plans that would require additional charges, including incurring facility exit and restructuring charges. During 2007 and 2008, we implemented a corporate restructuring plan under which we significantly reduced our workforce and closed or consolidated various facilities. We also completed the divestiture of our municipal wireless broadband operations. We continue to evaluate our business, and these reviews may result in additional restructuring activities. We may choose to divest certain business operations based on our management's assessment of their strategic value to our business. Decisions to eliminate or limit certain business operations in the future could involve the expenditure of capital, consumption of management resources, realization of losses, transition and wind-up expenses, further reduction in workforce, impairment of the value of purchased assets and goodwill, facility consolidation and the elimination of revenues along with associated costs, any of which could cause our operating results to decline and may fail to yield the expected benefits. Engaging in further restructuring activities could result in additional charges and costs, including facility exit and restructuring costs, and could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. If we do not continue to innovate and provide products and services that are useful to subscribers, we may not remain competitive, and our revenues and operating results could suffer. The market for Internet and telecommunications services is characterized by changing technology, changes in customer needs and frequent new service and product introductions. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to use leading technologies effectively, to continue to develop our technical expertise, to enhance our existing services and to develop new services that meet changing customer needs on a timely and cost-effective basis. We may not be able to adapt quickly enough to changing technology, customer requirements and industry standards. Such changes could include acceleration of the adoption of broadband due to government funding to deploy broadband to rural areas. If we fail to use new technologies effectively, to develop our technical expertise and new services, or to enhance existing services on a timely basis, either internally or through arrangements with third parties, our product and service offerings may fail to meet customer needs which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. We may be unsuccessful in making and integrating acquisitions and investments into our business, which could result in operating difficulties, losses and other adverse consequences. We have acquired and invested in businesses in the past, including our acquisition of New Edge. We expect to continue to evaluate and consider potential strategic transactions that we believe may complement our business, including acquisitions of businesses, technologies, services, products and other assets; acquisitions of subscriber bases from ISPs; and investments in companies that offer products and services that are complementary to our offerings or allow us to vertically integrate or grow our business. At any given time, we may be engaged in discussions or negotiations with respect to one or more of such transactions that may be material to our financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that any such discussions or negotiations will result in the consummation of any transaction. These transactions involve significant challenges and risks including diversion of management's attention from our other businesses; the impact on employee morale and retention; the integration of new employees, business systems and technology; the need to implement controls, procedures and policies or the need to remediate significant control deficiencies that may exist at acquired companies; potential unknown liabilities; or any other unforeseen operating difficulties. These factors could adversely affect our operating results or financial condition. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions or investments, we may not realize them in the time frame expected and our acquisitions and investments may lose value. Additionally, future acquisitions and investments may result in the dilutive issuances of equity securities, use of our cash resources, incurrence of debt or contingent liabilities, amortization expense related to acquired definite 14 Table of Contents lived intangible assets or the potential impairment of amounts capitalized as intangible assets, including goodwill. Any of these items could have a material effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our business is dependent on the availability of third-party telecommunications service providers. Our business depends on the capacity, affordability, reliability and security of third-party telecommunications and data service providers. Only a small number of providers offer the network services we require, and the majority of our telecommunications services are currently purchased from a limited number of telecommunications service providers. Our principal provider for narrowband services is Level 3. Our largest providers of broadband connectivity are Time Warner Cable, AT&T, Qwest, Verizon and Covad. We also purchase lesser amounts of services from a wide variety of local, regional and other national providers. Telecommunications service providers have recently merged and may continue to merge, which would reduce the number of suppliers from which we could purchase telecommunications services. We cannot be certain of renewal or non-termination of our contracts or that legislative or regulatory factors will not affect our contracts. Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to renew or extend contracts with our current network providers on acceptable terms, renew or extend current contracts with our network providers at all, acquire similar network capacity from other network providers, or otherwise maintain or extend our footprint. Additionally, each of our network providers sells network access to some of our competitors and could choose to grant those competitors preferential network access or pricing. Many of our network providers compete with us in the market to provide consumer Internet access. Such events may cause us to incur additional costs, pay increased rates for wholesale access services, increase the retail prices of our service offerings and/or discontinue providing retail access services, any of which could adversely affect our ability to compete in the market for retail access services. Our commercial and alliance arrangements may not be renewed, which could adversely affect our results of operations. A significant number of our subscribers have been generated through strategic alliances, including through our marketing alliance with Time Warner Cable and Bright House Networks. Generally, our strategic alliances and marketing relationships are not exclusive and may have a short term. In addition, as our agreements expire or otherwise terminate we may be unable to renew or replace these agreements on comparable terms, or at all. Our inability to maintain our marketing relationships or establish new marketing relationships could result in delays and increased costs in adding paying subscribers and adversely affect our ability to add new customers, which could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on us. The number of customers we are able to add through these marketing relationships is dependent on the marketing efforts of our partners, and a significant decrease in the number of gross subscriber additions generated through these relationships could adversely affect the size of our customer base and revenues. We utilize third parties for customer service and technical support and certain billing services, and our business may suffer if these third parties are unable to provide these services or terminate their relationships with us. Our business and financial results depend, in part, on the availability and quality of our customer service and technical support and billing services. We outsource a majority of customer service and technical support functions. As a result, we maintain only a small number of internal customer service and technical support personnel. We are not currently equipped to provide the necessary range of service and support functions in the event that our service providers become unable or unwilling to offer these services to us. Our outsourced contact center service providers utilize internationally geographically dispersed locations to provide us with customer service and technical support services, and as a result, our contact center service providers may become subject to financial, economic, and political risks beyond our or the 15 Table of Contents providers' control, which could jeopardize their ability to deliver customer service and technical support services. We also utilize third parties for certain billing services. If one or more of our service providers does not provide us with quality services, or if our relationship with any of our third party vendors terminates and we are unable to provide those services internally or identify a replacement vendor in an orderly, cost-effective and timely manner, our business, financial position and results of operations could suffer. In addition, as we continue to scale back our operations, our reliance on third party providers may become more concentrated as fewer providers are needed. Such increased concentration could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations if the third party was unable to provide the respective services. Service interruptions or impediments could harm our business. We may experience service interruptions or system failures in the future. Any service interruption adversely affects our ability to operate our business and could result in an immediate loss of revenues. If we experience frequent or persistent system or network failures, our reputation and brand could be permanently harmed. We may make significant capital expenditures to increase the reliability of our systems, but these capital expenditures may not achieve the results we expect. Harmful software programs. Our network infrastructure and the networks of our third party providers are vulnerable to damaging software programs, such as computer viruses and worms. Certain of these programs have disabled the ability of computers to access the Internet, requiring users to obtain technical support in order to gain access to the Internet. Other programs have had the potential to damage or delete computer programs. The development and widespread dissemination of harmful programs has the potential to seriously disrupt Internet usage. If Internet usage is significantly disrupted for an extended period of time, or if the prevalence of these programs results in decreased residential Internet usage, our business could be materially and adversely impacted. Security breaches. We depend on the security of our networks and, in part, on the security of the network infrastructures of our third party telecommunications service providers, our outsourced customer support service providers and our other vendors. Unauthorized or inappropriate access to, or use of, our network, computer systems and services could potentially jeopardize the security of confidential information, including credit card information, of our subscribers and of third parties. Some consumers and businesses have in the past used our network, services and brand names to perpetrate crimes and may do so in the future. Subscribers or third parties may assert claims of liability against us as a result of any failure by us to prevent these activities. Although we use security measures, there can be no assurance that the measures we take will be implemented successfully or will be effective in preventing these activities. Further, the security measures of our third party network providers, our outsourced customer support service providers and our other vendors may be inadequate. These activities may subject us to legal claims, adversely impact our reputation, and interfere with our ability to provide our services, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Natural disaster or other catastrophic event. Our operations and services depend on the extent to which our equipment and the equipment of our third party network providers are protected against damage from fire, flood, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins, acts of war or terrorism and similar events. We have three technology centers at various locations in the U.S. which contain a significant portion of our computer and electronic equipment. These technology centers host and manage Internet content, email, web hosting and authentication applications and services. Despite precautions taken by us and our third party network providers, a natural disaster or other unanticipated problem that impacts one of our locations or our third party providers' networks could cause interruptions in the services that we provide. Such interruptions in our services could have a material adverse effect on our ability to provide Internet services to our subscribers and, in turn, on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents Government regulations could adversely affect our business or force us to change our business practices. The regulatory environment relating to our business continues to evolve. A number of legislative and regulatory proposals under consideration by federal, state and local governmental entities may lead to the repeal, modification or introduction of laws or regulations which do, or could, affect our business. Our results of operations could be materially, adversely affected by future changes of legal and regulatory rights or obligations. Narrowband Internet access. Currently, narrowband Internet access is classified as an "information service" and is not subject to traditional telecommunications services regulation, such as licensing or pricing regulation. Any change to these rules that would apply per-minute carrier access charges to dial-up Internet access traffic would significantly impact our costs for this service. While Internet traffic is not subject to the FCC's carrier access charge regime, dial-up ISP bound traffic is regulated by the FCC. The FCC has established a uniform, nationwide rate for ISP-bound traffic, but these rules have been criticized by the courts and further judicial scrutiny is expected in 2009. Changes to the rules governing dial-up ISP bound traffic could impact our cost of providing this service. Broadband Internet access. Currently, broadband Internet access is classified as an "information service" and, as a result, cable companies and telephone companies that offer a broadband Internet access information service are not required by the FCC to offer unaffiliated ISPs stand-alone broadband transmission. Accordingly, if our contracts with cable companies and telephone companies were to expire and not be replaced, our broadband Internet access customer base and revenues would be adversely affected. Forbearance. The Communications Act provides the FCC with the authority to not enforce, or "forbear" from enforcing, statutory requirements and regulations if certain public interest factors are satisfied. If the FCC were to forbear from enforcing regulations that have been established to enable competing broadband Internet access and VoIP, our business could be adversely affected. Tax. The Internet Tax Non-Discrimination Act, which is in effect through November 2014, places a moratorium on taxes on Internet access and multiple, discriminatory taxes on electronic commerce. Certain states have enacted various taxes on Internet access and electronic commerce, and selected states' taxes are being contested on a variety of bases. If these state tax laws are not successfully contested, or if future state and federal laws imposing taxes or other regulations on Internet access and electronic commerce are adopted, our cost of providing Internet access services could be increased and our business could be adversely affected. Consumer protection. Federal and state governments have adopted consumer protection laws and undertaken enforcement actions to address advertising and user privacy. As part of these efforts, the Federal Trade Commission ("FTC") and some state Attorney General offices have conducted investigations into the privacy practices of companies that collect information about individuals on the Internet. The FTC and various state agencies as well as individuals have investigated and asserted claims against, or instituted inquiries into, Internet service providers in connection with marketing, billing, customer retention, cancellation and disclosure practices. Our services and business practices, or changes to our services and business practices could subject us to investigation or enforcement actions if we fail to adequately comply with applicable consumer protection laws. Universal Service. While current policy exempts broadband access services from the Universal Service Fund ("USF"), in 2009, the Congress and FCC may consider expanding the USF to include broadband Internet access services. This change could allow broadband service providers to receive a subsidy for deploying broadband in rural and underserved areas, but it will most likely require broadband service providers to contribute to the Fund as well. If broadband Internet access providers become subject to USF contribution obligations, they would likely impose a USF surcharge on end users. Such a surcharge 17 Table of Contents will raise the effective cost of our broadband services to our customers, and could affect customer satisfaction or our revenues and profitability. CLEC regulation. New Edge is a competitive local exchange carrier (or CLEC) that is licensed in most states and subject to both state and federal telecommunications regulation. CLECs, like New Edge, are dependent on certain provisions of the 1996 Telecommunications Act to procure facilities and services from incumbent local exchange carriers (or ILECs) that are necessary to provide their services. The business of New Edge is highly dependent on rules and rulings from the FCC, legislative actions at both the state and federal level, and rulings from the state public utility commissions. New Edge also must contribute to state and federal universal service funds. In addition, New Edge makes use of the special access services and DSL services of ILECs and other CLECs in order to provide New Edge services to its customers. VoIP. The current regulatory environment for VoIP services remains unclear, as the decision whether VoIP is an "information service" or "telecommunications service" is still pending. Classifying VoIP as a telecommunications service could require us to obtain a telecommunications license, comply with numerous legacy telephone regulations, and possibly subject the VoIP traffic to inter-carrier access charges, which could result in increased costs. In addition, several state regulatory agencies are seeking jurisdiction over VoIP services. If courts determine that states have jurisdiction, several states are expected to levy state universal service fees and other regulatory fees on the intrastate portion of VoIP revenue. This would increase the cost of our services and adversely affect our VoIP business. In addition, if courts determine that states can regulate fixed line VoIP as a telephone service and, among other requirements, subject these services to the carrier access charge regime, our costs of providing this service would increase and our VoIP business would be adversely affected. Other laws and regulations. Our business also is subject to a variety of other U.S. laws and regulations that could subject us to liabilities, claims or other remedies, such as laws relating to bulk email or "spam," access to various types of content by minors, anti-spyware initiatives, encryption, data protection, data retention and security breaches. Compliance with these laws and regulations is complex and may require significant costs. In addition, the regulatory framework relating to Internet services is evolving and both the federal government and states from time to time pass legislation that impacts our business. It is likely that additional laws and regulations will be adopted that would affect our business. We cannot predict the impact future laws, regulatory changes or developments may have on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The enactment of any additional laws or regulations, increased enforcement activity of existing laws and regulations, or claims by individuals could significantly impact our costs or the manner in which we conduct business, all of which could adversely impact our results of operations and cause our business to suffer. Privacy concerns relating to our business could damage our reputation and deter current and potential users from using our services. Concerns about our practices with regard to the collection, use, disclosure or security of personal information or other privacy-related matters, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation and operating results. We strive to comply with all applicable data protection laws and regulations, as well as our own posted privacy policies. However, any failure or perceived failure to comply with these laws, regulations or policies may result in proceedings or actions against us by government entities or others, which could potentially have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, as our services are web-based, we store a substantial amount of data on our servers for customers (including personal information). Any systems failure or compromise of our security that results in the release of our users' data could seriously limit the adoption of our products and services as well as harm our reputation and brand and, therefore, our business. We may also need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches. 18 Table of Contents We may not be able to protect our intellectual property. We regard our EarthLink, PeoplePC and New Edge Networks trademarks as valuable assets to our business. In particular, we believe the strength of the EarthLink brand among existing and potential customers is important to the success of our business. Additionally, our EarthLink, PeoplePC and New Edge Networks service marks, proprietary technologies, domain names and similar intellectual property are also important to the success of our business. We principally rely upon trademark law as well as contractual restrictions to establish and protect our technology and proprietary rights and information. We require employees and consultants and, when possible, suppliers and distributors to sign confidentiality agreements, and we generally control access to, and distribution of, our technologies, documentation and other proprietary information. The efforts we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our trademarks and similar proprietary rights. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use, our brand image may be harmed and our business may suffer. In addition, protecting our intellectual property and other proprietary rights is expensive and time consuming. Any increase in the unauthorized use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive to do business and consequently harm our operating results. We may be accused of infringing upon the intellectual property rights of third parties, which is costly to defend and could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future. From time to time, third parties have alleged that we infringe on their intellectual property rights. We have been subject to, and expect to continue to be subject to, claims and legal proceedings regarding alleged infringement by us of the patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties. None of these claims has had an adverse effect on our ability to market and sell and support our services. Such claims, whether or not meritorious, are time-consuming and costly to resolve, and could require expensive changes in our methods of doing business, could require us to enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements, or could require us to cease conducting certain operations. Any of these events could result in increases in operating expenses or could limit or reduce the number of our service offerings. If we are unable to successfully defend against legal actions, we could face substantial liabilities. We are currently a party to various legal actions, including consumer class action and patent litigation. Defending against these lawsuits may involve significant expense and diversion of management's attention and resources from other matters. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation, we may not prevail in these actions. In addition, our ongoing operations may subject us to litigation risks and costs in the future. Both the costs of defending lawsuits and any settlements or judgments against us could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Our business depends on effective business support systems, processes and personnel. Our business relies on our complex data, billing and other operational and financial reporting and control systems. To effectively manage our technical support infrastructure, we will need to continue to maintain our data, billing, and other operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, which can be costly. If we are unable to maintain our systems in an effective manner, our business may be adversely affected. We may be unable to hire and retain sufficient qualified personnel, and the loss of any of our key executive officers could adversely affect us. Our business depends on our ability to effectively attract, hire and retain highly skilled and qualified managerial, professional and technical personnel. We have implemented various reductions in workforce over the past few years, which may affect our ability to hire and retain key personnel. Effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. Failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and 19 Table of Contents smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder execution of our business plan. Finally, the loss of any of our key executives could have a material adverse effect on us. Our VoIP business exposes us to certain risks that could cause us to lose customers, expose us to significant liability or otherwise harm our business. Our VoIP service, including our E911 service, depends on the proper functioning of facilities and equipment owned and operated by third parties and is, therefore, beyond our control. If our third party service providers fail to maintain these facilities properly, or fail to respond quickly to problems, our customers may experience service interruptions. In addition, our E911 emergency service for our VoIP service is different in significant respects from the emergency calling services offered by traditional wireline telephone companies. Those differences may cause significant delays, or even failures, in callers' receipt of the emergency assistance they need. Delays or failures in receiving emergency services can be catastrophic. VoIP providers are not currently protected by legislation, so any resulting liability could be substantial. If interruptions or delays adversely affect the perceived reliability of our service, we may have difficulty attracting new customers and our brand and reputation may be negatively impacted. Any of these factors could cause us to lose revenues, incur greater expenses or cause our reputation or financial results to suffer. We may be required to recognize additional impairment charges on our goodwill and intangible assets, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. We have recorded goodwill and other intangible assets in connection with our acquisitions. We perform an impairment test of our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets annually during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year or when events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not indicate that goodwill or any such assets might be impaired. We evaluate the recoverability of our definite-lived intangible assets for impairment when events occur or circumstances change that would indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or intangible assets may not be recoverable, include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates in our industry. We recognized an impairment charge of $78.7 million during the fourth quarter of 2008 related to our Business Services segment in conjunction with our annual test of goodwill and intangible assets. As we continue to assess the ongoing expected cash flows and carrying amounts of our remaining goodwill and other intangible assets, changes in economic conditions, changes to our business strategy, changes in operating performance or other indicators of impairment could cause us to realize a significant impairment charge, negatively impacting our results of operations and financial position. We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities and the use of our net operating losses and certain other tax attributes could be limited in the future. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $532.7 million of tax net operating losses for federal income tax purposes and approximately $165.9 million of tax net operating losses for state income tax purposes. The tax net operating losses for state income tax purposes began to expire in 2008 and the tax net operating losses for federal income tax purposes begin to expire in 2020. Due to uncertainties in projected future taxable income, valuation allowances have been established against a portion of our deferred tax assets for book accounting purposes. Our future income taxes could be adversely affected by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof. Our determination of our tax liability is always subject to review by applicable tax authorities. Any adverse outcome of such a review could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. In 20 Table of Contents addition, the determination of our provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment, and there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. Currently, our tax net operating losses can accumulate and be used to offset any of our future taxable income. However, an "ownership change" that occurs during a "testing period" (as such terms are defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended) could place significant limitations, on an annual basis, on the use of such net operating losses to offset future taxable income we may generate. In general, future stock transactions and the timing of such transactions could cause an "ownership change" for income tax purposes. Such transactions may include our purchases under our share repurchase program, additional issuances of common stock by us (including but not limited to issuances upon future conversion of our outstanding convertible senior notes), and acquisitions or sales of shares by certain holders of our shares, including persons who have held, currently hold, or may accumulate in the future five percent or more of our outstanding stock. Many of these transactions are beyond our control. Calculations of an "ownership change" under Section 382 are complex and to some extent are dependent on information that is not publicly available. The risk of an "ownership change" occurring could increase if additional shares are repurchased, if additional persons acquire five percent or more of our outstanding common stock in the near future and/or current five percent stockholders increase their interest. Due to this risk, we monitor our purchases of additional shares of our common stock. Our stock price has been volatile historically and may continue to be volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to fluctuations, in particular due to deteriorating economic conditions. Our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in results of operations; announcements of new products, services or pricing by us or our competitors; the emergence of new competing technologies; developments in our business strategy; changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us; and news reports relating to trends in the markets in which we operate or general economic conditions. In addition, the stock market in general and the market prices for Internet-related companies in particular, have experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our stock, regardless of our operating performance. Additionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, many of whom have been granted stock incentive awards. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and limit our ability to react to changes in our industry. As of December 31, 2008, we had $258.8 million of indebtedness outstanding due to the issuance of our 3.25% Convertible Senior Notes Due 2026 (the "Notes") in November 2006. Our indebtedness could have important consequences to us. For example, it could: •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund our business activities; •limit our ability to secure additional financing, if necessary; •increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate. 21 Table of Contents Holders of the Notes have the right to require us to repurchase the Notes on November 15, 2011, November 15, 2016 and November 15, 2021 or upon the occurrence of a fundamental change prior to maturity. Upon conversion of the Notes, we are required to deliver cash equal to the lesser of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes to be converted and the total conversion obligation. We may use cash, shares of common stock or a combination thereof, at our option, for the remainder, if any, of the conversion obligation. We may not have sufficient funds to make the required cash payment upon conversion or to purchase or repurchase the Notes in cash at such time or the ability to arrange necessary financing on acceptable terms. In addition, the requirement to pay the fundamental change repurchase price, including the related make whole premium, may discourage a change in control of our company. Provisions of our second restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and other elements of our capital structure could limit our share price and delay a change of management. Our second restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and shareholder rights plan contain provisions that could make it more difficult or even prevent a third party from acquiring us without the approval of our incumbent board of directors. These provisions, among other things: •divide the board of directors into three classes, with members of each class to be elected in staggered three-year terms; •limit the right of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; and •authorize the board of directors to issue preferred stock in one or more series without any action on the part of stockholders. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and significantly impede the ability of the holders of our common stock to change management. In addition, we have adopted a rights plan, which has anti-takeover effects. The rights plan, if triggered, could cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire our common stock on terms not approved by the board of directors. These provisions and agreements that inhibit or discourage takeover attempts could reduce the market value of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 