Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may adversely impact our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Strategy We may not be able to execute our strategy to grow our business services revenue, which could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows. One of our key strategies is to grow our business services revenue. Since December 2010, we have significantly expanded our business services and revenues through acquisitions, including two large regional competitive local exchange carriers and several smaller companies which added new product and service capabilities. In December 2011, we launched a nationwide suite of business voice, data and Internet solutions. In addition to leveraging our fiber network and nationwide IP reach to provide a broad range of communications services, we are deploying a wide array of cloud, managed security and IT support services. Our strategy for further growth is for EarthLink to serve as an IT services company for businesses with IT and network security needs. We are focused on growing these managed services revenues through new and existing channels, leveraging distribution channels and positioning our business to take advantage of important trends in the markets for our products and services, including the emergence of cloud computing. There can be no assurance that our strategy will be successful. The market for managed services is relatively new and continues to evolve. While we believe our expertise, investments in infrastructure and breadth of services provides us with a strong foundation to compete, if we do not have sufficient customer demand to support our new services, our financial results may be harmed. Certain revenues of ITC^DeltaCom and One Communications have been declining and we expect the revenues from certain aspects of these businesses to continue to decline. Therefore, the inability to successfully implement our strategy to counteract these declining revenues could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our success depends on the timing and market acceptance of our new products and services, our ability to market our services in a cost-effective manner to new customers, our ability to differentiate our services from those of our competitors, our ability to maintain and expand our sales to existing customers, our ability to strengthen awareness of our brand, our ability to ensure effective training and product knowledge of our sales force and the reliability and quality of our services. In addition, our managed services portfolio may create operating inefficiencies and result in service problems if we are unsuccessful in fully integrating such new services or platforms into our existing operations. If the market for these services fails to grow or grows more slowly than we currently anticipate, or if our services fail to achieve widespread customer acceptance, our business would suffer. Any of the foregoing could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows. We may be unsuccessful integrating acquisitions into our business, which could result in operating difficulties, losses and other adverse consequences. We have completed two major acquisitions and several smaller acquisitions since December 2010, including our acquisitions of ITC^DeltaCom, One Communications and STS Telecom. Our management has been and continues to be involved in integrating these acquisitions into our legacy business, including integration activities related to certain billing, data warehouse, financial reporting and operating support systems. Our ability to achieve the benefits of acquisitions depends in part on the successful integration 21 Table of Contents and leveraging of technology, operations, sales and marketing channels and personnel. Integration and other risks associated with acquisitions can be more pronounced for larger and more complicated transactions or if multiple transactions are integrated simultaneously. The challenges and risks involved in the integration of our acquired businesses, as well as any future businesses that we may acquire, include: •diversion of management's attention and resources that would otherwise be available for the current operation of our business; •failure to fully achieve expected synergies and costs savings; •higher integration costs than anticipated; •the impact on employee morale and the retention of employees, many of whom may have specialized knowledge about the business; •lost revenues or opportunities as a result of our current or potential customers or strategic partners deciding to delay or forego business; •difficulties combining product offerings and entering into new markets in which we are not experienced; •difficulties integrating the sales organizations of acquired companies; •the integration of departments, operating support systems, such as provisioning and billing systems, and technologies, such as network equipment; •the need to implement and maintain uniform controls, procedures and policies throughout all of our acquired companies or the need to remediate significant control deficiencies that may exist at acquired companies; and •potential unknown liabilities. We may not realize anticipated synergies, cost savings, growth opportunities and operational efficiencies from our acquisitions, or the anticipated benefits may take longer or present greater cost to realize than expected. In addition, we recently connected and consolidated the networks acquired in our recent acquisitions with our existing network in order to launch a nationwide product platform. We may experience operating inefficiencies or service problems in the short term as a result of integrating these networks. This is a complicated undertaking requiring significant resources and expertise and support from third-party vendors. There may be additional difficulties that arise during this integration period as a result of the risks related to back-end integration of the networks, such as problems and inefficiencies relating to certain manual processing that is required, rather than relying on automated systems. The occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. We may be unable to successfully identify, manage and assimilate future acquisitions, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We expect to continue to evaluate and consider potential strategic transactions in order to grow our business, including our product portfolio. At any given time, we may be engaged in discussions or negotiations with respect to one or more of such transactions that may be material to our financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that any such discussions or negotiations will result in the consummation of any transaction, or that we will identify appropriate transactions on terms acceptable to us. Future acquisitions may result in significant costs and expenses and charges to earnings, including those related to severance, employee benefit costs, retention costs for executive officers and key employees, asset impairment charges, charges from the elimination of duplicative facilities and contracts, unexpected liabilities, legal, accounting and financial advisory fees. Adverse capital markets conditions could also negatively impact our ability to make acquisitions. Additionally, future acquisitions 22 Table of Contents may result in the dilutive issuances of equity securities, use of our cash resources, incurrence of debt or contingent liabilities, amortization expense related to acquired definite-lived intangible assets or the potential impairment of amounts capitalized as intangible assets, including goodwill. Any of these items could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We also may experience risks relating to the challenges and costs of closing a transaction and the risk that an announced transaction may not close. Completion of certain acquisition transactions are conditioned upon, among other things, the receipt of approvals, including from the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") and certain state public utility commissions. Failure to complete a pending transaction would prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits. We would also remain liable for significant transaction costs, including legal and accounting fees, whether or not the transaction is completed. In addition, the market price of our common stock may reflect a market assumption as to whether the transaction will occur. Consequently, the completion of, or a failure to complete, a transaction could result in a significant change in the market price of our common stock. If we are unable to adapt to changes in technology and customer demands, we may not remain competitive, and our revenues and operating results could suffer. We operate in an industry characterized by changing technology, changes in customer needs and frequent new service and product introductions, particularly in the areas of VoIP, broadband services and advanced wireless offerings. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to use leading technologies effectively, to continue to develop our technical expertise, to enhance our existing services and to develop new services that meet changing customer needs on a timely and cost-effective basis. We may not be able to adapt quickly enough to changing technology, customer requirements and industry standards. Specifically, in our Business Services segment, new technologies such as 4G, Ethernet or other alternatives to network access, could result in the development of additional products or services that compete with or displace ours, or that enable current customers to bypass use of our networks. In addition, communications customers are increasingly using wireless forms of communication, such as handheld Internet-access devices and mobile phones, which has resulted in a decline in the volume of voice traffic carried by traditional wireline communications networks. In our Consumer Services segment, new technologies such as high-speed data-over-cable-service-interface specification, or DOCSIS, technology offered by many cable broadband providers and advanced fiber-based technologies being utilized by AT&T and Verizon may adversely affect our broadband and dial-up access businesses. The increasing use of wireless communication, VoIP providers and the acceleration of the adoption of broadband due to government funding to deploy broadband to rural areas could also negatively impact our consumer business. Finally, our dial-up services are dependent on dial-up modems and an increasing number of computer manufacturers do not pre-load their new computers with dial-up modems, requiring the user to separately acquire a modem to access our services. Any of these factors could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. The development and offering of new services in response to new technologies or consumer demands may require us to increase our capital expenditures significantly. We recently invested in network expansion, upgrades and increased capacity in order to support our nationwide launch of new products and services. We may be required to further invest or to convert our existing network to a network using more advanced technology. We may also be required to replace outdated or incompatible equipment acquired in our recent acquisitions. If we are unable successfully to install or operate new network equipment or convert our network, or if the technology choices we make prove to be incorrect, ineffective or unacceptably costly, we may not be able to compete effectively. In addition, new technologies may be protected by patents or other intellectual property laws, and, therefore, may be available only to our competitors. 23 Table of Contents Our failure to achieve operating efficiencies will adversely affect our results of operations. We have an operating framework that includes a disciplined focus on operational efficiency. The success of our operating efficiencies and cost reductions is necessary to achieve the desired synergies we hope to achieve with the integration of our recent acquisitions. We are incurring increased costs related to our business services growth strategy. If the increased costs required to support our revenue growth turn out to be greater than anticipated, or our resulting revenues lower than expected, we may be unable to improve our results of operations and/or cash flows. The success of our operating efficiencies and cost reductions is also necessary to align costs with trends in revenue for our Consumer Services segment. However, although we seek to align our cost structure with trends in revenue for our Consumer Services segment, we do not expect to be able to reduce our cost structure to the same extent as our declines in revenue and our cost reduction initiatives might not yield the anticipated benefits. In addition, large-scale cost reduction opportunities may be more limited in the future and in some cases, we may incur upfront costs in connection with implementing certain initiatives. If we do not recognize the anticipated benefits of our cost reduction initiatives, or do so in a timely manner, our results of operations and cash flows will decline. Unfavorable general economic conditions could harm our business. Unfavorable general economic conditions, including recession and disruptions to the credit and financial markets, could negatively affect our business. These conditions could adversely affect the affordability of, and customer demand for, some of our products and services and could cause customers to delay or forego purchases of our products and services. Our business customers are particularly exposed to a weak economy. Unfavorable general economic conditions could cause business customers to reduce technology spending, which could negatively impact sales of our new IT and cloud services. In addition, our business customers may not be able to obtain adequate access to credit, which could affect their ability to make timely payments to us. One or more of these circumstances could cause our revenues to decline, churn to increase, allowance for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable to increase or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Unfavorable general economic conditions could also negatively impact third-party vendors we rely on for services and network equipment integral to our business. If these vendors encounter financial difficulties, their ability to supply services and network equipment to us may be curtailed. If such vendors were to fail, we may not be able to replace them without disruption to, or deterioration of, our service and we may incur higher costs associated with new vendors. If we were required to purchase another manufacturer's equipment, we could incur significant initial costs to integrate the equipment into our network and to train personnel to use the new equipment. Any interruption in the services provided by our third-party vendors could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to Our Business Services Segment We face significant competition in the communications and managed IT services industry that could reduce our profitability. The communications industry is highly competitive, and we expect this competition to intensify. These markets are rapidly changing due to industry consolidation, an evolving regulatory environment and the emergence of new technologies. We compete directly or indirectly with incumbent local exchange carriers ("ILECs"), such as AT&T, CenturyLink, Inc. and Verizon Communications Inc.; competitive telecommunications companies ("CLECs"), such as Level 3 Communications Inc., MegaPath, Inc., Windstream Corporation and XO Holdings Inc.; interexchange carriers, such as Sprint Nextel Corporation; wireless and satellite service providers; cable service providers/multiple system operators 24 Table of Contents (MSOs), such as Charter Communications, Inc., Comcast Corporation, Cox Communications, Inc. and Time Warner Cable; and stand-alone VoIP providers. We experience significant pricing and product competition from AT&T and other incumbents that are the dominant providers of telecommunications services in our markets. We have reduced, and may be required to further reduce, some or all of the prices we charge for our retail local, long distance and data services. The managed IT services industry is also highly competitive. These markets are fragmented and evolving. Competitors range in size from small, local independent firms to very large telecommunications companies, hardware manufacturers and system integrators. We compete directly or indirectly with telecommunications companies such as AT&T, Verizon Communications Inc. and Level 3 Communications Inc.; system integrators such as IBM, Hewlett-Packard, Accenture and CSC; managed hosting and cloud providers such as Equinix, Inc., Internap Network Services Corporation, Rackspace Hosting, Inc., Terremark Worldwide, Inc. and Web.com Group, Inc.; and managed security companies such as Perimeter eSecurity and Secure Works. Competition could adversely impact us in several ways, including (i) the loss of customers and resulting revenue, (ii) the possibility of customers reducing their usage of our services or shifting to less profitable services, (iii) reduced traffic on our networks, (iv) our need to expend substantial time or money on new capital improvement projects, (v) our need to lower prices or increase marketing expenses to remain competitive, and (vi) our inability to diversify by successfully offering new products or services. We believe the primary competitive factors in the communications and managed services industries include price, availability, reliability of service, network security, variety of service offerings, quality of service and reputation of the service provider. While we believe our business services compete favorably based on some of these factors, we are at a competitive disadvantage with respect to certain of our competitors. Many of our current and potential competitors have greater market presence, engineering, technical and marketing capabilities and financial, personnel and other resources substantially greater than ours; own larger and more diverse networks; are subject to less regulation; or have substantially stronger brand names. In addition, industry consolidation has resulted in larger competitors that have greater economies of scale. Consequently, these competitors may be better equipped to charge lower prices for their products and services, to provide more attractive offerings, to develop and expand their communications and network infrastructures more quickly, to adapt more swiftly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, to increase prices that we pay for wholesale inputs to our services and to devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products and services. Decisions by the Federal Communications Commission relieving incumbent carriers of certain regulatory requirements, and possible further deregulation in the future, may restrict our ability to provide services and may increase the costs we incur to provide these services. We rely in significant part on purchasing wholesale services and leasing network facilities from AT&T and other incumbent carriers. Over the past several years, the FCC has reduced or eliminated a number of regulations governing the incumbent carriers' offerings, including removal of local switching and other network elements from the list of elements that the incumbent carriers must provide on an unbundled basis at TELRIC cost-based rates, as well as the grant of broad pricing flexibility to incumbents for their special access services in many areas. If the incumbent carriers do not continue to permit us to purchase these services from them under commercial arrangements at reasonable rates, our business could be adversely affected and our cost of providing local service could increase. This can have a significant adverse impact on our operating results and cash flows. If the FCC, Congress, state legislatures or state regulatory agencies were to adopt measures further reducing the local competition-related obligations of the incumbents or allowing those carriers to increase further the rates we must pay, we could experience additional increases in operating costs that would negatively affect our operating results and cash flows. 25 Table of Contents If we are unable to interconnect with AT&T, Verizon and other incumbent carriers on acceptable terms, our ability to offer competitively priced local telephone services will be adversely affected. To provide local telephone services, we must interconnect with and resell the services of the incumbent carriers to supplement our own network facilities, pursuant to interconnection agreements between us and the incumbent carriers. We operate under interconnection agreements with AT&T, CenturyLink, Fairpoint Communications, Frontier Communications, Verizon and Windstream. An interconnection agreement typically has a term of three years, although the parties may mutually agree to extend or amend such agreements. If we are not able to renegotiate or enter into interconnection agreements on acceptable terms, or if we are subject to unfavorable arbitration decisions, our cost of doing business could increase and our ability to compete could be impeded. Moreover, our interconnection agreements and traffic exchange with companies other than ILECs (such as wireless and VoIP providers and other competitive carriers) are not subject to the statutory arbitration mechanism, making it potentially more difficult to reach any agreement on terms that we view as acceptable. If we are unable to enter into or maintain favorable interconnection agreements in our markets, our ability to provide local services on a competitive and profitable basis may be adversely affected. Any successful effort by the incumbent carriers to deny or substantially limit our access to their network elements or wholesale services also would harm our ability to provide local telephone services. Our operating performance will suffer if we are not offered competitive rates for the access services we need to provide our long distance services. We depend on other communications companies to originate and terminate a significant portion of the long distance traffic initiated by our customers. The FCC regulates the access rates charged by local carriers to interexchange carriers for the origination and termination of long distance traffic. These access rates make up a significant portion of the cost of providing long distance service. The FCC has recently adopted policy changes that over time are reducing carriers' access rates. These new rules significantly alter the manner in which all carriers, including carriers that use different service platforms such as wireless and VoIP, are compensated for the origination and termination of telecommunications traffic. These new rules also may alter the rates that we pay for our access services. We expect these new rules to result in a loss of revenues and could potentially increase our volume of carrier disputes. Our operating performance will suffer if we are not offered these access services at rates that are substantially equivalent to the costs of, and rates charged to, our competitors and that permit profitable pricing of our long distance services. We may experience reductions in switched access and reciprocal compensation revenue. We may experience declines in revenues for switched access and reciprocal compensation as a result of lower volume of traditional long distance voice minutes and FCC and state regulations compelling a reduction of switched access and reciprocal compensation rates. The FCC recently adopted policy changes that over time are reducing carriers' access rates. We expect these new rules to result in a loss of revenues and could potentially increase our volume of carrier disputes. In addition, the FCC currently is considering whether and how to reform its special access rules. We rely to a considerable extent on interstate special access services purchased from the incumbent carriers in order to connect to our customers. Switched access and reciprocal compensation together have been declining over time. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compensate for the reduction in intercarrier compensation revenue with other revenue sources or increased volume. Failure to obtain and maintain necessary permits and rights-of-way could interfere with our network infrastructure and operations. To obtain and maintain rights-of-way and similar franchises and licenses needed to install, operate and maintain fiber optic cable and our other network elements, we must negotiate and manage agreements 26 Table of Contents with state highway authorities, local governments, transit authorities, local telephone companies and other utilities, railroads, long distance carriers and other parties. If any of these authorizations terminate or lapse, our operations could be adversely affected. We have substantial business relationships with several large telecommunications carriers, and some of our customer agreements may not continue due to financial difficulty, acquisitions, non-renewal or other factors, which could adversely affect our wholesale revenue and results of operations. We generate wholesale revenue from the sale of transmission capacity to other telecommunications carriers and have substantial business relationships with several large telecommunications carriers for whom we provide services. The highly competitive environment and the industry consolidation in the communications markets has challenged the financial condition and growth prospects of some of our carrier customers, and has caused such carrier customers to optimize the telecommunications capacity that they use among competing telecommunications services providers' networks, including ours. Replacing this wholesale revenue may be difficult because individual enterprise and small to medium business customers tend to place smaller service orders than our larger carrier customers. In addition, pricing pressure on services that we sell to our carrier customers may challenge our ability to grow revenue from carrier customers. As a result, if our larger carrier customers terminate the services they receive from us, our wholesale revenues and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Consumer Services Segment Our commercial and alliance arrangements may not be renewed or may not generate expected benefits, which could adversely affect our results of operations. A significant number of our new consumer subscribers have been generated through our marketing alliance with Time Warner Cable and Bright House Networks and other strategic alliances. Our agreement with Time Warner Cable and Bright House Networks expires in October 2013 and there are no assurances we will be able to extend the agreement, or that we will receive the same benefits as we do today if the agreement is extended. Generally, our strategic alliances and marketing relationships are not exclusive and may have a short term. In addition, as our agreements expire or otherwise terminate we may be unable to renew or replace these agreements on comparable terms, or at all. Our inability to maintain our marketing relationships or establish new marketing relationships could result in delays and increased costs in adding paying subscribers and adversely affect our ability to add new customers, which could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on us. The number of customers we are able to add through these marketing relationships is dependent on the marketing efforts of our partners, and there is no commitment for these partners to provide us with new customers. A significant decrease in the number of gross subscriber additions generated through these relationships could adversely affect the size of our customer base and revenues. Our consumer business is dependent on the availability of third-party network service providers. Our consumer business depends on the capacity, affordability, reliability and security of third-party network service providers. Only a small number of providers offer the network services we require, and the majority of our network services are currently purchased from a limited number of network service providers. Our principal provider for narrowband services is Level 3. We also purchase narrowband services from certain regional and local providers. Our largest providers of broadband connectivity are AT&T, Bright House Networks, CenturyLink (formerly Qwest), Comcast, MegaPath (formerly Covad), Time Warner Cable and Verizon. Many network service providers have merged and may continue to merge, which would reduce the number of suppliers from which we could purchase network services. 27 Table of Contents We cannot be certain of renewal or non-termination of our contracts or that legislative or regulatory factors will not affect our contracts. Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to renew or extend contracts with our current network service providers on acceptable terms, renew or extend current contracts with our network service providers at all, acquire similar network capacity from other network providers, or otherwise maintain or extend our footprint. Additionally, each of our network service providers sells network access to some of our competitors and could choose to grant those competitors preferential network access or pricing. Many of our network service providers compete with us in the market to provide consumer Internet access. As our consumer business continues to decline, our vendors may not want to continue their relationship with us or do so at current prices. In addition, as our consumer subscribers continue to decline, our value-added partners may raise their wholesale prices or discontinue their partnering relationship with us. Such events may cause us to incur additional costs, pay increased rates for wholesale access services, increase the retail prices of our service offerings and/or discontinue providing retail access services, any of which could adversely affect our ability to compete in the market for consumer access services. We face significant competition in the Internet industry that could reduce our profitability. We operate in the Internet access industry, which is extremely competitive. We compete directly or indirectly with national communications companies and local exchange carriers, such as AT&T, CenturyLink, Verizon and Windstream; cable companies providing broadband access, including Charter Communications, Inc., Comcast Corporation, Cox Communications, Inc. and Time Warner Cable; local and regional ISPs; established online services companies, such as AOL and the Microsoft Network; free or value-priced ISPs, such as United Online, Inc. which provides service under the brands Juno and NetZero; wireless Internet service providers; content companies and email providers, such as Google and Yahoo!; and satellite and fixed wireless service providers. Competitors for our consumer VoIP services also include companies that offer VoIP services as their primary business, such as Vonage, and competitors for our advertising services also include content providers, large web publishers, web search engine and portal companies, Internet advertising providers, content aggregation companies, social-networking web sites, and various other companies that facilitate Internet advertising. Competition in the market for Internet access services is likely to continue to increase. Competition could adversely impact us in several ways, including: decrease pricing of our services; increase churn of our existing customers; increase operating costs; or decrease the number of subscribers we are able to add. We believe the primary competitive factors in the Internet access industry are price, speed, features, coverage area and quality of service. While we believe our Internet access services compete favorably based on some of these factors when compared to some Internet access providers, we are at a competitive disadvantage relative to some or all of these factors with respect to other of our competitors. Current and potential competitors include many large companies that have substantially greater market presence and greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have. Our dial-up Internet access services do not compete favorably with broadband services with respect to speed, and dial-up Internet access services no longer have a significant, if any, price advantage over certain broadband services. Most of the largest providers of broadband services, such as cable and telecommunications companies, control their own networks and offer a wider variety of services than we offer, including voice, data and video services. Their ability to bundle services and to offer broadband services at prices below the price that we can profitably offer comparable services puts us at a competitive disadvantage. In addition, our only significant access to offer broadband services over cable is through our agreement with Time Warner. We experience pricing pressures for certain of our consumer access services, particularly our consumer broadband services, due to competition, volume-based pricing and other factors. Some providers, including AT&T, have reduced and may continue to reduce the retail price of their Internet access services to maintain or increase their market share, which could cause us to reduce, or prevent us from raising, our prices. We may encounter further market pressures to: migrate existing customers to lower-priced service offerings; restructure service offerings to offer more value; reduce prices; and respond 28 Table of Contents to particular short-term, market-specific situations, such as special introductory pricing or new product or service offerings. Any of the above could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. The continued decline of our consumer access subscribers, combined with the change in mix of our consumer access base from narrowband to broadband, will adversely affect our results of operations. Our consumer access revenues consist primarily of narrowband access revenues and broadband access revenues. Our narrowband subscriber base and revenues have been declining and are expected to continue to decline due to continued maturation of the market for narrowband access and increased availability and reduced pricing of broadband access services. Our broadband subscriber base and revenues have been declining due to increased competition among broadband providers. We expect our consumer access subscriber base and revenues to continue to decline, which will adversely affect our profitability and results of operations. In addition, we have done, and expect to continue to do, targeted price increases, which could negatively impact our churn rates. Our strategy for consumer access subscribers is to engage in limited sales and marketing efforts and focus instead on retaining customers and adding customers that are more likely to produce an acceptable rate of return. If we do not maintain our relationships with current customers or acquire new customers, our revenues will decline and our profitability will be adversely affected. Changes in the mix of our consumer access subscriber base, from narrowband access to broadband access, have also negatively affected our consumer access profitability. Our consumer broadband access services have lower gross margins due to the higher costs associated with delivering broadband services. Our ability to provide these services profitably is dependent upon cost-effectively purchasing wholesale broadband access and managing the costs associated with delivering broadband services. While we continuously evaluate cost reduction opportunities associated with the delivery of broadband access services, our overall profitability will be adversely affected if we are unable to continue to manage and reduce costs associated with the delivery of broadband services. Potential regulation of Internet service providers could adversely affect our operations. Our Internet access services are not currently subject to substantial regulation by the FCC or state public utilities commissions. Both Congress and the FCC are considering proposals that involve greater regulation of IP-based service providers. Depending on the content and scope of any regulations, the imposition of such regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business and the profitability of our services. Currently, narrowband Internet access is classified as an "information service" and is not subject to traditional telecommunications services regulation, such as licensing or pricing regulation. Any change to these rules that would apply per-minute carrier access charges to dial-up Internet access traffic could significantly impact our costs for this service. While Internet traffic is not subject to the FCC's carrier access charge regime, dial-up ISP bound traffic is regulated by the FCC. The FCC has established a uniform, nationwide rate for ISP-bound traffic, but these rules have been criticized by the courts and further judicial scrutiny is expected. Changes to the rules governing dial-up ISP bound traffic could impact our cost of providing this service. The current regulatory environment for VoIP services remains unclear, as the decision whether VoIP is an "information service" or "telecommunications service" is still pending. Classifying VoIP as a telecommunications service could require us to obtain a telecommunications license, comply with numerous legacy telephone regulations, and possibly subject the VoIP traffic to inter-carrier access charges, which could result in increased costs. In addition, our E911 emergency service for our VoIP services is different in significant respects from the emergency calling services offered by traditional wireline telephone companies. Those differences may cause significant delays, or even failures, in callers' receipt of the emergency assistance they need. VoIP providers are not currently protected by legislation, so any resulting liability could be substantial. 29 Table of Contents Broadband Internet access is also currently classified as an "information service." While current policy exempts broadband access services from the USF, the Congress and FCC may consider expanding the USF to include broadband Internet access services. This change could allow broadband service providers to receive a subsidy for deploying broadband in rural and underserved areas, but it will most likely require broadband service providers to contribute to the fund as well. If broadband Internet access providers become subject to USF contribution obligations, they would likely impose a USF surcharge on end users. Such a surcharge will raise the effective cost of our broadband services to our customers, and could adversely affect customer satisfaction or our revenues and profitability. General Risks We may be unable to hire and retain sufficient qualified personnel, and the loss of any of our key executive officers could adversely affect us. Our business depends on our ability to hire and retain key executive officers, senior management, sales, and other key personnel, many of whom have significant experience in our industry and whose expertise is required to successfully transition our business to a provider of managed IT services. There is substantial and continuous competition for highly skilled sales and IT personnel. Acquisitions and workforce reductions may affect our ability to retain or replace key personnel, harm employee morale and productivity or disrupt our business. Key employees may depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with us following a merger transaction. Effective succession planning is important to our long-term success. Failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and transitions involving key employees could hinder execution of our business strategies. Finally, the loss of any of our key executives could impair our ability to implement our acquisition integration plans, execute our business strategy or otherwise have a material adverse effect on us. Privacy concerns relating to our business could damage our reputation and deter current and potential users from using our services. Concerns about our practices with regard to the collection, use, disclosure or security of personal information or other privacy-related matters, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation and operating results. We strive to comply with all applicable data protection laws and regulations, as well as our own posted privacy policies. However, any failure or perceived failure to comply with these laws, regulations or policies may result in proceedings or actions against us by government entities or others, which could potentially have an adverse effect on our business. Federal and state governments have adopted consumer protection laws and undertaken enforcement actions to address advertising and user privacy. Our services and business practices, or changes to our services and business practices could subject us to investigation or enforcement actions if we fail to adequately comply with applicable consumer protection laws. Existing and future federal and state laws and regulations also may affect the manner in which we are required to protect confidential customer data and other information, which could increase the cost of our operations and our potential liability if the security of our confidential customer data is breached. Security breaches could damage our reputation and harm our operating results. We are subject to cyber security risks and may incur increasing costs in an effort to minimize those risks. The services we offer involve the storage and transmission of customers' proprietary information. The risk that a security breach could seriously harm our business is likely to increase as we expand our cloud and IT services footprint. Security breaches, such as unauthorized access, accidents, employee error or malfeasance, computer viruses, computer hackings or other disruptions, can occur that could compromise the security of our infrastructure, thereby exposing such information to unauthorized access by third parties. Techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target. We may be required to expend 30 Table of Contents significant capital and other resources to remedy, protect against or alleviate these and related problems, and we may not be able to remedy these problems in a timely manner, or at all. Any security breaches that occur could damage our reputation, increase our security costs, expose us to litigation and lead to the loss of existing or potential customers. If our services are perceived as not being secure, our strategy to be a leading network, communications and IT services provider may be adversely impacted. Interruption or failure of our network and information systems and other technologies could impair our ability to provide our services, which could damage our reputation and harm our operating results. Our success depends on our ability to provide reliable service. Our network, network operations centers, central offices, corporate headquarters and those of our third party service providers are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fires, earthquakes, hurricanes, tornados, floods and other natural disasters, terrorist attacks, power loss, capacity limitations, telecommunications failures, software and hardware defects or malfunctions, break ins, sabotage and vandalism, human error and other disruptions that are beyond our control. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning may not be adequate. We have experienced interruptions in service in the past due to factors such as cable damage, theft of our equipment, power outages, inclement weather and service failures of our third-party service providers. We may experience service interruptions or system failures in the future. In addition, in connection with enhancement, expansion or consolidation of our existing network, we may experience service interruptions despite our efforts to minimize the impact to customers. We may make significant capital expenditures to increase the reliability of our systems, but these capital expenditures may not achieve the results we expect. The occurrence of any disruption or system failure may result in a loss of business, increase expenses, damage our reputation for providing reliable service, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny or expose us to litigation and possible financial losses, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our business depends on effective business support systems and processes. Our business relies on our data, billing and other operational and financial reporting and control systems. To effectively manage our information technology infrastructure, we will need to continue to maintain our data, billing and other operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, which can be costly. We have experienced system failures from time to time, and any interruption in the availability of our business support systems, in particular our billing systems, could result in an immediate, and possibly substantial, loss of revenues. Our ability to maintain, expand and update our information technology infrastructure in response to acquisitions, growth and changing needs is important to the continued implementation of our new service offering initiatives. We are currently integrating certain business support systems in connection with our recent acquisitions and nationwide product launch, including systems used for quoting, accepting and inputting customer orders for services; provisioning, installing and delivering services; and billing for services. This is a complicated undertaking requiring significant resources and expertise and support from third-party vendors. For example, certain manual processing, which is more time consuming and prone to error than automated processing, is required during the integration period. In addition, as our consumer business continues to decline, we are more dependent on fewer individuals to maintain our internal business systems. Our inability to maintain, expand or upgrade our technology infrastructure could have adverse consequences, which could include the delayed implementation of new service offerings, increased acquisition integration costs, service or billing interruptions and the diversion of development resources. Government regulations could adversely affect our business or force us to change our business practices. Our services are subject to varying degrees of federal, state and local regulation. Federal, state and local regulations governing our services are the subject of ongoing judicial proceedings, rulemakings and legislative initiatives that could change the manner in which our industry operates and affect our business. 31 Table of Contents The FCC exercises jurisdiction over telecommunications common carriers to the extent that they provide, originate or terminate interstate or international communications. The FCC also establishes rules and has other authority over some issues related to local telephone competition. State regulatory commissions retain jurisdiction over telecommunications carriers to the extent that they provide, originate or terminate intrastate communications. State commissions also have authority to review and approve interconnection agreements between incumbent telephone carriers and competitive carriers such as us, and to conduct arbitration of disputes arising in the negotiation of such agreements. Local governments may require us to obtain licenses, permits or franchises to use the public rights-of-way necessary to install and operate our network. Bills intended to amend the Communications Act of 1934, as amended by the Telecommunications Act of 1996 ("Communications Act") are introduced in Congress from time to time and their effect on us and the communications industry cannot always be predicted. Proposed legislation, if enacted, could have a significant effect on our business, particularly if the legislation impairs our ability to interconnect with incumbent carrier networks, lease portions of other carriers' networks or resell their services at reasonable prices, or lease elements of networks of the ILECs under acceptable rates, terms and conditions. We cannot predict the outcome of any ongoing legislative initiatives or administrative or judicial proceedings or their potential impact upon the communications and information technology industries generally or upon us specifically. Failure to make proper payments for federal Universal Service Fund assessments, FCC regulatory fees or other amounts mandated by federal and state regulations; failure to maintain proper state tariffs and certifications; failure to comply with federal, state or local laws and regulations; failure to obtain and maintain required licenses, franchises and permits; imposition of burdensome license, franchise or permit requirements for us to operate in public rights-of-way; and imposition of new burdensome or adverse regulatory requirements could limit the types of services we provide or the terms on which we provide these services. We are subject to regulatory audits in the ordinary course of business with respect to certain of these regulatory matters, including audits by the Universal Service Administrative Company on Universal Service Fund ("USF") assessments and payments. These audits can cover periods for several years prior to the date the audit is undertaken and could result in the imposition of liabilities, interest and penalties if our positions are not accepted by the auditing entity. Our financial statements contain reserves for certain of such potential liabilities which we consider reasonable. However, calculation of payments due with respect to these matters can be complex and subject to uncertainty. As a result, these audits could result in liabilities in excess of such reserves which could adversely impact our results of operations. Our business also is subject to a variety of other U.S. laws and regulations from various entities, including the Federal Trade Commission, the Environmental Protection Agency and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, as well as by state and local regulatory agencies, that could subject us to liabilities, claims or other remedies. Compliance with these laws and regulations is complex and may require significant costs. In addition, the regulatory framework relating to Internet and communications services is evolving and both the federal government and states from time to time pass legislation that impacts our business. It is likely that additional laws and regulations will be adopted that would affect our business. We cannot predict the impact future laws, regulatory changes or developments may have on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The enactment of any additional laws or regulations, increased enforcement activity of existing laws and regulations, or claims by individuals could significantly impact our costs or the manner in which we conduct business, all of which could adversely impact our results of operations and cause our business to suffer. Our business may suffer if third parties are unable to provide services or terminate their relationships with us. Our business and financial results depend, in part, on the availability and quality of certain third-party service providers. Specifically, we rely on third parties for customer service and technical support, web 32 Table of Contents hosting services and certain billing and collection services. Our Consumer Services segment relies primarily on one customer service and technical support vendor. Our contract with our primary customer service and technical support vendor ends in the second quarter of 2012. We may have to increase the price we pay or find a new supplier, which could impact our customers' experience and increase churn. We maintain only a small number of internal customer service and technical support personnel. We are not currently equipped to provide the necessary range of service and support functions in the event that our service providers become unable or unwilling to offer these services to us. Our outsourced customer support providers utilize international locations to provide us with customer service and technical support services, and as a result, our customer support providers may become subject to financial, economic, environmental and political risks beyond our or the providers' control, which could jeopardize their ability to deliver customer service and technical support services. In addition, our VoIP services, including our E911 service, depend on the proper functioning of facilities and equipment owned and operated by third parties and is, therefore, beyond our control. If one or more of our service providers does not provide us with quality services, or if our relationship with any of our third party vendors terminates and we are unable to provide those services internally or identify a replacement vendor in an orderly, cost-effective and timely manner, our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows could suffer. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property. We regard our trademarks, including EarthLink, EarthLink Business and PeoplePC, as valuable assets to our business. In particular, we believe the strength of these brands among existing and potential customers is important to the success of our business. Additionally, our EarthLink, EarthLink Business and PeoplePC service marks, proprietary technologies, domain names and similar intellectual property are also important to the success of our business. We principally rely upon trademark law as well as contractual restrictions to establish and protect our technology and proprietary rights and information. We require employees and consultants and, when possible, suppliers and distributors to sign confidentiality agreements, and we generally control access to, and distribution of, our technologies, documentation and other proprietary information. The efforts we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our trademarks and similar proprietary rights. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use, our brand image may be harmed and our business may suffer. In addition, protecting our intellectual property and other proprietary rights is expensive and time consuming. Any increase in the unauthorized use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive to do business and consequently harm our results of operations. We may be accused of infringing upon the intellectual property rights of third parties, which is costly to defend and could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future. From time to time, third parties have alleged that we infringe on their intellectual property rights. We may be unaware of filed patent applications and of issued patents that could be related to our products and services. Some of the largest communications providers, such as AT&T, Sprint Nextel and Verizon, have substantial patent holdings. These providers have successfully asserted their claims against some communications companies, and have filed pending lawsuits against various competitive carriers. We have been subject to, and expect to continue to be subject to, claims and legal proceedings regarding alleged infringement by us of the patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties. None of these claims has had an adverse effect on our ability to market and sell and support our services. Such claims, whether or not meritorious, are time-consuming and costly to resolve, and could require expensive changes in our methods of doing business, could require us to enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements, or could require us to cease conducting certain operations. Any of these events could result in increases in operating expenses or could limit or reduce the number of our service offerings. 33 Table of Contents If we, or other industry participants, are unable to successfully defend against legal actions, we could face substantial liabilities or suffer harm to our financial and operational prospects. We are currently a party to various disputes, litigation or other legal proceedings arising from normal business activities, including consumer class action, patent litigation and legal proceedings regarding network easements, the use of rights-of-way for our network and licenses to maintain our fiber optic network. The result of any current or future disputes, litigation or other legal proceedings is inherently unpredictable. Defending against disputes, litigation or other legal proceedings may involve significant expense and diversion of management's attention and resources from other matters. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation, we may not prevail in these actions. In addition, our ongoing operations may subject us to litigation risks and costs in the future. Both the costs of defending lawsuits and any settlements or judgments against us could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We are also subject to the risks associated with the resolution of various third-party disputes, lawsuits, arbitrations and proceedings affecting our Business Services segment. The deregulation of the telecommunications industry, the implementation of the Telecommunications Act of 1996, the evolution of telecommunications infrastructure from time-division multiplexing to Internet Protocol, and the distress of many carriers in the telecommunications industry as a result of continued competitive factors and financial pressures have resulted in the involvement of numerous industry participants in disputes, lawsuits, proceedings and arbitrations before state and federal regulatory commissions, private arbitration organizations such as the American Arbitration Association, and courts over many issues that will be important to our financial and operational success. These issues include the interpretation and enforcement of existing interconnection agreements and tariffs, the terms of new interconnection agreements, operating performance obligations, intercarrier compensation, treatment of different categories of traffic (for example, traffic originated or terminated on wireless or VoIP), the jurisdiction of traffic for intercarrier compensation purposes, the wholesale services and facilities available to us, the prices we will pay for those services and facilities and the regulatory treatment of new technologies and services. We may be required to recognize additional impairment charges on our goodwill and intangible assets, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $378.2 million of goodwill and $285.4 million of other intangible assets. We perform an impairment test of our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets annually during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year or when events occur or circumstances change that would more-likely-than-not indicate that goodwill or any such assets might be impaired. We evaluate the recoverability of our definite-lived intangible assets for impairment when events occur or circumstances change that would indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or intangible assets may not be recoverable, include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, higher customer churn and slower growth rates in our industry. We have experienced impairment charges in the past. As we continue to assess the ongoing expected cash flows and carrying amounts of our goodwill and other intangible assets, changes in economic conditions, changes to our business strategy, changes in operating performance or other indicators of impairment could cause us to record a significant impairment charge during the period in which the impairment is determined, negatively impacting our results of operations and financial position. We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities and the use of our net operating losses and certain other tax attributes could be limited in the future. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $494.0 million of tax net operating losses for federal income tax purposes and approximately $796.5 million of tax net operating losses for state income tax purposes, which includes federal and state net operating losses acquired in connection with our recent 34 Table of Contents acquisitions. The tax net operating losses for federal income tax purposes begin to expire in 2019 and the tax net operating losses for state income tax purposes began to expire in 2011. Our future income taxes could be adversely affected by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof. Our determination of our tax liability is always subject to review by applicable tax authorities. Any adverse outcome of such a review could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, the determination of our provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment, and there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. An "ownership change" that occurs during a "testing period" (as such terms are defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended) could place significant limitations, on an annual basis, on the use of such net operating losses to offset future taxable income we may generate. In general, future stock transactions and the timing of such transactions could cause an "ownership change" for income tax purposes. Such transactions may include our purchases under our share repurchase program, additional issuances of common stock by us and acquisitions or sales of shares by certain holders of our shares, including persons who have held, currently hold, or may accumulate in the future five percent or more of our outstanding stock. Many of these transactions are beyond our control. Calculations of an "ownership change" under Section 382 are complex and to some extent are dependent on information that is not publicly available. The risk of an "ownership change" occurring could increase if additional shares are repurchased, if additional persons acquire five percent or more of our outstanding common stock in the near future and/or current five percent stockholders increase their interest. Due to this risk, we monitor our purchases of additional shares of our common stock. Since an "ownership change" also could result from a change in control of our company, with subsequent annual limitations on the use of our net operating losses, this could discourage a change in control. Risks Related to Our Liquidity and Financial Resources Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and limit our ability to react to changes in our industry. As of December 31, 2011, we had $624.8 million outstanding principal amount of long-term debt, which consisted of $324.8 million outstanding principal amount of ITC^DeltaCom's 10.5% senior secured notes due 2016 (the "ITC^DeltaCom Notes") and $300.0 million outstanding principal amount of EarthLink's 8.875% senior notes due 2019 (the "Senior Notes"). We also have an additional $150.0 million of unutilized capacity under our senior secured revolving credit facility and we may incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. Our substantial indebtedness may: •make it difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations, including making scheduled principal and interest payments on our indebtedness; •limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; •limit our ability to use our cash flow or obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; •require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments; •limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry; •place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; and 35 Table of Contents •increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions. Our ability to make payments on or to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our ability in the future to generate cash flows from operations, which is subject to all the risks of our business. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows from operations for us to repay our indebtedness when such indebtedness becomes due and to meet our other cash needs. The agreements that govern the ITC^DeltaCom Notes, Senior Notes and senior secured revolving credit facility impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit or restrict, among other things, our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to: •incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock; •pay dividends or make other distributions to stockholders; •purchase or redeem capital stock or subordinated indebtedness; •make investments; •create liens or use assets as security; •enter into agreements restricting such restricted subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends, make loans or transfer assets to us or other restricted subsidiaries; •engage in transactions with affiliates; and •consolidate or merge with or into other companies or transfer all or substantially all of our or their assets. If we breach any of these covenants, a default could result under one or more of these agreements, which may require us to repay some or all of our indebtedness. We may require additional capital to support business growth, and this capital may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. We will require substantial capital to maintain, upgrade and enhance our network facilities and operations. We may also require additional capital to support our business growth, including the need to develop new services and products, invest in data center space to support new cloud and managed IT services, enhance our operating infrastructure and acquire complementary businesses and technologies. While we have historically been able to fund capital expenditures from cash generated by operations, the other risk factors described in this section could materially reduce cash available from operations or significantly increase our capital expenditures requirements. We may need to raise additional funds through equity or debt financings in the future in order to meet our operating and capital needs. We may not be able to secure additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, or at all, at the time when we need such funding. If we are unable to obtain additional capital when needed, we may not be able to pursue our growth strategy and our business could suffer. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of our company, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. In addition, any debt financing that we may obtain in the future could have restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. 36 Table of Contents Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock We may reduce, or cease payment of, quarterly cash dividends. The payment of future quarterly dividends is discretionary and is subject to determination by our Board of Directors each quarter following its review of our financial condition, results of operations, cash requirements, investment opportunities and such other factors as are deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. Changes in our business needs, including funding for acquisitions and working capital, or a change in tax laws relating to dividends, among other factors, could cause our Board of Directors to decide to reduce, or cease the payment of, dividends in the future. In addition, the agreements governing our Senior Notes and our senior secured revolving credit facility contain restrictions on the amount of dividends we can pay. There can be no assurance that we will not decrease or discontinue quarterly cash dividends, and if we do, our stock price could be negatively impacted. Our stock price may be volatile. The trading price of our common stock may be subject to fluctuations in response to certain events and factors, such as our entry into business combinations or other major transactions; quarterly variations in results of operations; changes in financial estimates; changes in recommendations or reduced coverage by securities analysts; the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us; news reports relating to trends in the markets in which we operate; market trends unrelated to our performance; and general economic conditions. A significant drop in our stock price could also expose us to the risk of securities class action lawsuits, which could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. Finally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, many of whom have been granted stock incentive awards. Provisions of our third restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and other elements of our capital structure could limit our share price and delay a change of management. Our third restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and shareholder rights plan contain provisions that could make it more difficult or even prevent a third party from acquiring us without the approval of our incumbent Board of Directors. These provisions, among other things, limit the right of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders and authorize the Board of Directors to issue preferred stock in one or more series without any action on the part of stockholders. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and significantly impede the ability of the holders of our common stock to change management. In addition, we have adopted a rights plan, which has anti-takeover effects. The rights plan, if triggered, could cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire our common stock on terms not approved by the Board of Directors. These provisions and agreements that inhibit or discourage takeover attempts could reduce the market value of our common stock. 37 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 