ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks described below are not the only risks we face. If any of the events described in the following risk factors actually occurs, or if additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, materialize, then our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment in our shares. The risks discussed below include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Risks Related to Our Company We may be required to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed, or it may only be available on unfavorable terms, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. Our risk-based capital ratio is currently below the level required to be considered “well-capitalized” for regulatory purposes. The proceeds of our current rights offering is intended to return our status to “well-capitalized” which requires that we add an additional $19.4 million to the Bank’s capital to exceed the 10.0% risk-based capital level. However, if our existing shareholders do not subscribe for all of the shares being offered in the rights offering, and we do not enter into standby purchase agreements for any unsubscribed shares, we may not have the capital necessary to satisfy our regulatory capital goals. In addition, even if we return to a “well-capitalized” status following the rights offering, future losses could reduce our capital position below levels necessary to maintain such status. It is also likely that the Bank will be required to achieve and maintain capital levels in excess of the minimum “well-capitalized” levels as a result of the pending regulatory agreement. Therefore, if the Bank raises enough capital to meet established regulatory “well-capitalized” levels, it may not be considered sufficient to meet the regulatory agreement requirements. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to maintain or improve our capital position or to support our operations. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we may not be able to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our financial condition and our ability to maintain or improve our capital position, to support our operations and to continue as a going concern could be materially impaired. We are subject to various regulatory requirements and expect to be subject to future regulatory restrictions including a regulatory agreement. In light of the current challenging operating environment, along with our elevated level of non-performing assets, delinquencies and adversely classified assets, we are subject to increased regulatory scrutiny, and expect to become subject to a regulatory agreement with the FDIC and Department of Finance and Corporate Securities (“DFCS”) and a similar agreement with the Federal Reserve. Such agreements could place limitations on our business and adversely affect our ability to implement our business plans, including our growth strategy. Regulatory agencies have the authority to restrict our operations to those consistent with adequately capitalize institutions. For example, we would likely have limitations on our lending activities and on the rates paid by the Bank to attract retail deposits in its local markets. We may be required to reduce our levels of non-performing assets within specified time frames. These time frames might not result in maximizing the price that might otherwise be received for underlying properties. In addition, if such restrictions were also imposed upon other institutions that operate in the Bank’s markets, multiple institutions disposing of properties at the same time could further diminish the potential proceeds received from the sale of these properties. If any of these or other additional restrictions are placed on us, it would limit the resources currently available to us. In this regard, the FDIC recently completed its regularly scheduled examination of the Bank. Based on discussions with the FDIC following the examination, we expect to receive a regulatory agreement from the 14 Table of Contents FDIC requiring us to take certain steps to further strengthen the Bank, such as reducing the level of classified assets, increasing capital levels, and addressing other criticisms from the examination. The added costs of compliance with additional regulatory requirements could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and earnings. The negative impact of the current economic recession has been particularly acute in our primary market areas of southern and central Oregon and in northern California. Our operations are geographically concentrated in southern and central Oregon and northern California and our business is sensitive to economic factors that relate to regional business conditions. Substantially all of our loans are to businesses and individuals in our primary market areas. Our customers are directly and indirectly dependent upon the economies of these areas and upon the timber and tourism industries, which are significant employers and revenue sources in our markets—economic factors that affect these industries will have a disproportionately negative impact on our region and our customers. All geographic regions in which we operate have seen precipitous declines in property values. The State of Oregon suffers from one of the nation’s highest unemployment rates and major employers have implemented substantial layoffs or scaled back growth plans. The State of California continues to face significant fiscal challenges, the long-term effects of which cannot be predicted. A further deterioration in the economic and business conditions or a prolonged delay in economic recovery in our primary market areas could result in the following consequences that could materially and adversely affect our business: increased loan delinquencies; increased problem assets and foreclosures; reduced demand for our products and services; reduced demand for low cost or noninterest bearing deposits or customer shifts from low cost or noninterest bearing deposits to high cost accounts; reduced property values that diminish the value of assets and collateral associated with our loans; and a decrease in capital resulting from charge-offs and losses. If we are not able to reduce nonperforming assets and the related losses being recognized, our ability to continue as a going concern becomes doubtful. Our existing capital levels will not support significant deterioration in asset quality and the corresponding recognition of losses. Additional capital is needed both to meet regulatory “well-capitalized” levels and to support any potential future losses. On January 29, 2010, the Company filed an amendment to the Form S-1 Registration Statement with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission announcing a proposed sale to the public for subscription rights to purchase up to 81,747,362 shares of the Company’s common stock. The capital raised from this subscription rights offering may not be sufficient to compensate for future losses. If capital levels continue to deteriorate, it is likely that we will need to seek to merge with another institution or raise capital through new investors in an extremely dilutive transaction on terms that could be considered unfavorable by current shareholders, or face the prospect of being placed into receivership, resulting in a complete loss of your investment in the Company. The Company’s common stock may no longer qualify for listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market. NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 5550(a)(2) requires that primary equity securities listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market continue to have a minimum bid price of at least $1.00 per share. On March 15, 2010, we received notice that we did not meet the requirement for minimum bid price for 30 consecutive business days. In accordance with NASDAQ rules, we received formal notice from NASDAQ and have a period of 180 calendar days to achieve compliance. Compliance can be achieved by meeting the bid price standard for a minimum of ten consecutive business days, unless NASDAQ staff exercises discretion to extend such period. If we are not deemed in compliance before the expiration of the 180 day compliance period, we will be afforded an additional 180 day compliance period, provided that on the 180th day of the first compliance period, we demonstrate that we meet all applicable standards for initial listing on the Capital Market (except the bid price requirement) based on our most recent public filings and market information. If we have publicly announced information indicating that we no longer satisfy applicable initial listing criteria, we will not be eligible for the additional compliance period under this rule. Our stock price may not increase to the $1.00 level for ten consecutive business days and, if it does not during the initial compliance period, we may not qualify for the additional compliance period, and our common stock would then be subject to delisting. Should our shares be subject to delisting from the Capital 15 Table of Contents Market, there is no assurance that a liquid and efficient market for our common stock will be available or develop. Although the shares may be eligible for trading on other exchanges, such as the “OTC Bulletin Board,” it is possible that the ability of a selling shareholder to realize the best market price will be impeded as the result of wider bid-ask spreads. We are subject to restriction on our ability to declare or pay dividends on and repurchase shares of our common stock. Under the terms of our agreements with the U.S. Treasury in connection with the sale of our Series B Preferred Stock, we are unable to declare dividend payments on common, junior preferred or pari passu preferred shares if we are in arrears on the dividends on the Series B Preferred Stock. We recently announced that we would suspend further dividend payments on the Series B Preferred Stock to conserve capital. If dividends on the Series B Preferred Stock are not paid in full for six dividend periods, whether or not consecutive, the holders of the Series B Preferred Stock will have the right to elect two directors. Such right to elect directors will end when full dividends have been paid for four consecutive dividend periods. We also announced that we would defer, as permitted under the terms of indentures, interest payments on junior subordinated debentures issued in connection with trust preferred securities. We are permitted to defer such interest payments for up to 20 consecutive quarters, but during a deferral period we are prohibited from making dividend payments on our capital stock. Further, if we become current on our Series B Preferred Stock dividends and junior subordinated debenture payments, we cannot increase dividends on our common stock above $0.057 per share per quarter without the U.S. Treasury’s approval or redemption or transfer of the Series B Preferred Stock. In addition, our ability to pay dividends, and the Bank’s ability to pay dividends to us, is limited by regulatory restrictions and the need to maintain sufficient capital. In the second quarter of 2009, we suspended payment of dividends on our common stock in order to conserve capital. We are currently restricted from paying dividends unless we receive prior regulatory approval and we expect to become subject to formal regulatory restrictions that will continue to prohibit us from declaring or paying any dividend without prior approval of banking regulators. Although we can seek to obtain waiver of such prohibition, we would not expect to be granted such waiver or to be released from this obligation until our financial performance improves significantly. Therefore, we may not be able to resume payments of dividends in the future. We are subject to executive compensation restrictions because of our participation in the U.S. Treasury’s TARP Capital Purchase Program. We are subject to TARP rules and standards governing executive compensation, which generally apply to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and the three next most highly compensated senior executive officers and, with recent amendments, apply to a number of other employees. The standards include (1) a requirement to recover any bonus payment to senior executive officers or certain other employees if payment was based on materially inaccurate financial statements or performance metric criteria; (ii) a prohibition on making any golden parachute payments to senior executive officers and certain other employees; (iii) a prohibition on paying or accruing any bonus payment to certain employees, except as otherwise permitted by the rules; (iv) a prohibition on maintaining any plan for senior executive officers that encourages such officers to take unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten the Company’s value; (v) a prohibition on maintaining any employee compensation plan that encourages the manipulation of reported earnings to enhance the compensation of any employee; and (v) a prohibition on providing tax gross-ups to senior executive officers and certain other employees. These restrictions and standards could limit our ability to recruit and retain executives. We could realize additional losses because Federal and state governments could pass legislation responsive to current credit conditions. We could experience high credit losses because of new federal or state legislation or regulatory changes that reduce the amount that the Bank’s borrowers are otherwise contractually required to pay under existing loan contracts. Also, we could experience higher credit losses because of new federal or state legislation or regulatory 16 Table of Contents changes that limit the Bank’s ability to foreclose on property or other collateral or makes foreclosure less economically feasible. Our earnings, and further, our ability to continue as a going concern, depend to a large extent upon the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, and our inability to manage credit risk would negatively affect our business. We will suffer losses if a significant number of our borrowers, guarantors and related parties fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. We have adopted underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and a credit policy, including the establishment and review of the allowance for loan losses that our management believes are appropriate to minimize this risk by assessing the likelihood of non-performance, tracking loan performance and diversifying our credit portfolio. These policies and procedures, however, involve subjective judgments and may not prevent unexpected losses that could materially affect our results of operations. Moreover, bank regulators frequently monitor loan loss allowances, and if regulators were to determine that the allowance was inadequate, they may require us to increase the allowance, which also would adversely impact our financial condition. Approximately 74% of our gross loan portfolio is secured by real estate, the majority of which is commercial real estate and continued market deterioration could lead to losses. Declining real estate values have caused increasing levels of charge-offs and provisions for loan losses. Continued declines in real estate market values may precipitate increased charge-offs and a further increase in the allowance for loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our earnings depend upon the spread between the interest rate we receive on loans and securities and the interest rates we pay on deposits and borrowings. Changes in interest rates could adversely impact our net interest margin, net interest income and net income. We are impacted by changing interest rates. Changes in interest rates affect the demand for new loans, the credit profile of existing loans, the rates received on loans and securities and rates paid on deposits and borrowings. The relationship between the rates received on loans and securities and the rates paid on deposits and borrowings is known as interest rate spread. Given our current volume and mix of interest-bearing liabilities and interest-earning assets, our interest rate spread could be expected to increase during times of rising interest rates and, conversely, to decline during times of falling interest rates. Exposure to interest rate risk is managed by adjusting the re-pricing frequency of PremierWest Bank’s rate-sensitive assets and rate-sensitive liabilities over any given period. Significant fluctuations in interest rates may have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is heavily regulated and the creation of additional regulations may negatively affect our operations. We are subject to government regulation that could limit or restrict our activities, which in turn could adversely impact our operations. The financial services industry is regulated extensively. Federal and state regulations are designed primarily to protect the deposit insurance funds and consumers, and not to benefit shareholders. These regulations can sometimes impose significant limitations on our operations as well as result in higher operating costs. In addition, these regulations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. Significant new regulation or changes in existing regulations or repeal of existing laws may affect our results materially. Further, federal monetary policy, particularly as implemented through the Federal Reserve System, significantly affects credit conditions and interest rates for us. Market conditions or regulatory constraints could restrict our access to funds necessary to meet liquidity demands. Liquidity measures the ability to meet loan demand and deposit withdrawals and to pay liabilities as they come due. A sharp reduction in deposits or rapid increase in loans outstanding could force us to borrow heavily 17 Table of Contents in the wholesale deposit market, purchase federal funds from correspondent banks, borrow at the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle or Federal Reserve discount window, raise deposit interest rates or reduce lending activity. Wholesale deposits, federal funds and sources for borrowings may not be available to us due to future regulatory constraints, market conditions or unfavorable terms. We rely on the Federal Home loan Bank (“FHLB”) of Seattle as a source of liquidity. The Company is highly dependent on the FHLB of Seattle to provide a source of wholesales funding for immediate liquidity and borrowing needs. Changes or disruptions to the FHLB of Seattle or the FHLB system in general, may materially impair the Company’s ability to meet its growth plans or to meet short and long term liquidity demands. Recently the FHLB of Seattle announced that it met all minimum regulatory capital requirements as of September 30, 2009. However, the Federal Housing Finance Agency exercised its discretionary authority to reaffirm FHLB of Seattle’s “undercapitalized” classification as it had at the end of the quarters ended March 31, 2009 and June 30, 2009. The Federal Housing Finance Agency action was reportedly taken because of the possibility that modest declines in the values of FHLB of Seattle’s private-label mortgage-backed securities could cause its risk-based capital to fall below the minimum requirements. As a result, the FHLB of Seattle cannot pay a dividend on their common stock and it cannot repurchase or redeem common stock. While the FHLB of Seattle has announced it does not anticipate that additional capital is immediately necessary, and believes that its capital level is adequate to support realized losses in the future, the FHLB of Seattle could require its members, including the Company, to contribute additional capital in order to return the FHLB of Seattle to compliance with capital guidelines. At December 31, 2009, the Company held a total of approximately $168,000 of cash on deposit with the FHLB of Seattle and FHLB of San Francisco. At December 31, 2009, the Company maintained a line of credit with the FHLB of Seattle for $31.9 million and was in compliance with its related collateral requirements. At December 31, 2009, the Company had a $21.4 million letter of credit and $10.5 million was available for additional borrowing. The financial services industry is highly competitive. Competition may adversely affect our performance. The financial services industry is highly competitive due to changes in regulation, technological advances and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial services providers. We face competition both in attracting deposits and in originating loans and providing transactional services. Our ability to pay dividends, repurchase shares or repay indebtedness depends primarily upon the results of operations of PremierWest Bank. We are a separate, distinct legal entity from the Bank and receive substantially all of our revenue from dividends from the Bank. Our inability to receive dividends from the Bank would adversely affect our financial condition. The Bank’s ability to pay dividends is primarily dependent on net interest income, which is the income that remains after deducting from total income generated by earning assets the expense attributable to the acquisition of the funds required to support earnings assets, the general level of interest rates, the dynamics of changes in interest rates and the levels of nonperforming loans. Various statutory and regulatory provision restrict the amount of dividends the Bank can pay to us without regulatory approval and the Bank is currently restricted from paying dividends without prior regulatory approval until our condition improves. In addition the Bank may not pay cash dividends if that payment could reduce the amount of its capital below that necessary to meet the “adequately capitalized” level in accordance with regulatory capital requirements. It is also possible that, depending on the financial condition of the Bank and other factors, regulatory authorities could assert that payment of dividends or other payments by the Bank, including payments to the Company, is an unsafe and unsound practice. Under Oregon law, the amount of a dividend from the Bank may not be greater than net unreserved retained earnings, after first deducting to the extent not already charged against earnings or reflected in a reserve, all bad debts, which are debts on which interest is unpaid and past due at least six months unless the debt is fully secured and in the process of collection; 18 Table of Contents all other assets charged-off as required by the DFCS or state or federal examiner; and all accrued expenses, interest and taxes. We may not effectively manage our growth or future acquisitions which could adversely affect the quality of our operations and our costs. Our financial performance and profitability will depend on our ability to manage recent growth and implement our plans and strategies for future growth. Although Management believes that it has substantially integrated the business and operations of recent acquisitions, there can be no assurance that unforeseen issues relating to the acquisitions will not adversely affect us. In addition, any future acquisitions and continued growth may present operational or other problems that could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to execute our growth strategy or maintain the level of profitability that we have historically experienced. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected our industry. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than twelve months. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities. These write-downs have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial services industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: • We expect to face increased regulation of our industry, including the results of the EESA and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”). Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. • Government stimulus packages and other responses to the financial crises may not stabilize the economy or financial system. • Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite our customers become less predictive of future behaviors. • The process we use to estimate losses inherent in its credit exposure requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic predictions might impair the ability of the Bank’s borrowers to repay their loans, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process. • We will be required to pay significantly higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation premiums because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. • There may be continued downward pressure on our stock price. • Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions and government sponsored entities. • We may face increased competition due to intensified consolidation of the financial services industry. 19 Table of Contents If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital, on our business, our financial condition and results of operations. A significant decline in the market value of our common stock resulted in an impairment of goodwill. Our common stock has traded at prices below book value, including goodwill and other intangible assets, and the valuation of goodwill is determined using discounted cash flows of forecasted earnings, estimated sales price based on recent observable market transactions and market capitalization based on current stock price. We are required to test for goodwill impairment periodically and if goodwill impairment is deemed to exist, a write-down of the asset would occur with a charge to earnings. After completing the required annual analysis of goodwill, an impairment charge of $74.9 million was taken to write the goodwill balance to zero at December 31, 2009. This write-down had no impact to cash flows or regulatory capital. We rely on technology to deliver products and services and interact with our customers. We face operational risks as we depend on internal and outsourced technology to support all aspects of our business operations. Interruption or failure of these systems creates a risk of loss of customers if technology fails to work as expected and risk of regulatory scrutiny if security breaches occur. Risk management programs are expensive to maintain and will not protect the company from all risks associated with maintaining the security of customer information, proprietary data, external and internal intrusions, disaster recovery and failures in the controls used by vendors. Changes in accounting standards may impact how we report our financial condition and results of operations. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) changes the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. The value of securities in our investment securities portfolio may be negatively affected by continued disruptions in securities markets. The market for some of the investment securities held in our portfolio continues to be volatile over the past twelve months. Market conditions may continue to negatively affect the value of securities. There can be no assurance that the declines in market value associated with these disruptions will not result in other-than-temporary impairments of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges that could have a material adverse effect on our net income and capital levels. Our deposit insurance premium could be substantially higher in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our future earnings. The FDIC insures deposits at the Bank and other financial institutions. The FDIC charges insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund at a certain level. Current economic conditions have caused bank failures and expectations for additional bank failures, in which case the FDIC, through the Deposit Insurance Fund, ensures payments of customer deposits at failed banks up to insured limits. In addition, deposit insurance limits on customer deposit accounts have generally increased to $250,000 from $100,000 and the FDIC adopted the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (TLGP) for non-interest-bearing transaction deposit accounts. These developments will cause the premiums assessed on by the FDIC to increase and will materially increase our noninterest expense. An increase in the risk category of the Bank will also cause our premiums to increase. Whether through adjustments to base deposit insurance assessment rates, significant special assessments or emergency assessments under the TLGP, increased deposit insurance premiums could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. 20 Table of Contents If we fail to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or to remedy any future material weaknesses in our internal controls that we may identify, such failure could result in material misstatements in our financial statements, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. Any failure to remediate any material weakness that we may identify or to implement new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure also could adversely affect the results of the periodic management evaluations and, in the case of a failure to remediate any material weaknesses that we may identify, would adversely affect the annual auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting that we are required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our capital stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 