Risk Factors” section and the following: • Impact of changing and recently volatile U.S. and global economic conditions, including the ongoing European debt crisis and resulting instability (and potential dissolution) of the Euro; • The downgrade by Standard and Poor’s of the United States’ sovereign credit rating and its impact on financial markets and companies’ ability to raise capital; • Our suppliers’ production levels of the components used in our products; • Our ability to procure required components; • Market acceptance of new and enhanced versions of our products; • Expansion of our international business, including the opening of offices and facilities in foreign countries; • The timing of the introduction of new products or components and enhancements to existing products or components by us, our competitors or our suppliers; 29 Table of Contents • Fluctuations in the cost of components and changes in the average sales prices of our products; • Fluctuating market demand for our products; • Changes in our customer or product revenue mix; • The loss of one or more of our customers; • Our ability to successfully integrate any acquired businesses or assets; • Expenses associated with the startup of new operations or divisions; • Order cancellations, product returns, inventory buildups by customers and inventory write-downs; • Manufacturing inefficiencies associated with the start-up of new manufacturing operations, new products and volume production; • Expenses associated with strategic transactions, including acquisitions, joint ventures and capital investments; • Our ability to adequately support potential future rapid growth; • Our ability to absorb manufacturing overhead if revenues decline; • The effects of litigation; and • Increases in our sales and marketing and research and development expenses in connection with decisions to pursue new product initiatives. Due to such factors, quarterly revenues and results of operations are difficult to forecast, and period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be predictive of future performance. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could cause our investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and operating results and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting that meets applicable standards. We may err in the design or operation of our controls, and all internal control systems, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Because there are inherent limitations in all control systems, there can be no absolute assurance that all control issues have been or will be detected. In addition, a failure to maintain such controls could result in misstatements in our financial statements. If we are unable, or are perceived as unable, to produce reliable financial reports due to internal control deficiencies, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information and operating results, which could result in a negative market reaction. Two of our largest shareholders are executives and directors of our company and their interests may diverge from other shareholders. Mark Moshayedi and Manouch Moshayedi are brothers who (along with a third brother Mike Moshayedi) founded STEC. They have owned a substantial amount of shares since our inception. As of December 31, 2012 Mark and Manouch Moshayedi beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 12% of our outstanding common stock. This beneficial ownership percentage does not include shares that were gifted by Mark Moshayedi to an irrevocable trust for the benefit of his descendants and shares that were gifted by Manouch Moshayedi to an irrevocable trust for the benefit of his descendants, which aggregate to approximately 5% of our outstanding common stock, but to which Mark and Manouch Moshayedi, respectively, disclaims beneficial ownership. As shareholders, Mark and Manouch Moshayedi may have interests that diverge from those of other holders of our common stock. In addition, Mark Moshayedi is our CEO and President and Manouch Moshayedi 30 Table of Contents is our Founder, both being STEC Board members. As a result, they have the potential ability to influence all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including approval of significant corporate transactions and the decision of whether a change in control will occur. This potential influence could affect the price that certain investors may be willing to pay for shares of our common stock. Certain provisions in our charter documents and equity incentive plans could prevent or delay a change in control and, as a result, negatively impact our shareholders. Certain provisions in our charter documents and equity incentive plans could have the effect of discouraging a takeover attempt. For example, provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders. These provisions also could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions include: • Limitations on how special meetings of shareholders can be called; • Advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by shareholders at shareholder meetings; • Elimination of cumulative voting in the election of directors; • The right of a majority of directors in office to fill vacancies on the board of directors; and • The ability of our board of directors to issue, without shareholder approval, “blank check” preferred stock to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt. In addition, provisions of our 2000 Stock Incentive Plan and 2010 Incentive Award Plan allow for the automatic vesting of all outstanding equity awards granted under the 2000 Stock Incentive Plan and 2010 Incentive Award Plan upon a change in control under certain circumstances. Such provisions may have the effect of discouraging a third party from acquiring us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders. Potential proxy contests could be disruptive and costly and the possibility that there may be change on or control of our Board of Directors could cause uncertainty about the direction of our business. For the 2013 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, two shareholders have jointly provided notice to us of their nomination of seven persons for election as directors on our Board of Directors. Proxy contests can be costly and time-consuming, disrupt our operations and divert the attention of management and our employees from executing our strategic plan. In addition, perceived uncertainties as to our future direction as a result of changes to the composition of the Board of Directors may lead to concerns of a change in the direction of the business or instability or lack of continuity in our business, which may be exploited by our competitors, cause concern to our current or potential customers, and make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 