Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, you should consider the following risk factors before investing in our securities. We do not have a history of profitable operations and our cash resources are limited. Our year ended October 31, 2003 was the first full year we were profitable in our operating history. Our profitability for the year ended October 31, 2003 resulted primarily from our SCOsource business. For the years ended October 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, we incurred net losses applicable to common stockholders of $16,598,000, $10,726,000 and $16,227,000, respectively. As of October 31, 2006, our accumulated deficit was $251,540,000. If our revenue from the sale of our UNIX products and services continues to decline, or if we continue to devote significant cash resources to the SCO Litigation, we will need to further reduce operating expenses to generate positive cash flow. During October 2006, we implemented a reduction in force and decreased our ongoing operating expenses in an effort to decrease our total costs. We may not be able to further reduce operating expenses without damaging our ability to support our existing UNIX business. Additionally, we may not be able to achieve profitability through additional cost-cutting actions. As of October 31, 2006, we had a total of $7,618,000 in cash and cash equivalents and available-for-sale marketable securities and an additional $5,046,000 of restricted cash to be used to pursue the SCO Litigation. Since October 31, 2004, we have spent a total of $9,954,000 for expert, consulting and other costs and fees as agreed to in the Engagement Agreement with our legal counsel in the SCO Litigation. Our limited cash resources may not be sufficient to fund continuing losses from operations and the expenses of the SCO Litigation. We may not prevail in our lawsuits with IBM, Novell and others, which may adversely affect our ability to continue in business. We continue to pursue the SCO Litigation and believe in the merits of our cases. With respect to our litigation with IBM, both parties are preparing for summary judgment arguments scheduled for March 2007. IBM has filed 6 motions for summary judgment that, if granted in whole or in substantial part, could resolve our claims in IBM’s favor or substantially reduce our claims. We have filed 3 motions for summary judgment. On November 29, 2006, the District Court issued a ruling upholding the June 28, 2006 Magistrate Judge’s ruling that removed over 180 (out of 293) of our technology disclosures from the case. Additionally, on December 21, 2006, the Magistrate Judge signed an order which held that certain items of technology included in our expert reports go beyond the disclosures contained in our December 22, 2005 filing. We have filed objections to that order with the District Court. The result of these recent rulings is that we still have over 100 challenged items from the December 22, 2005 disclosure in the case with IBM. With respect to our litigation with Novell, Novell claims it did not sell The Santa Cruz Operation, Inc. the UNIX copyrights and it claims it has the right to waive our claims against UNIX source licensees, such as IBM, Novell has filed a motion for preliminary injunction and a motion for partial summary judgment; we have also filed a cross-motion for partial summary judgment. The Court heard arguments on these motions on January 23, 2007, and as of the date of filing of this Form 10-K, no ruling had been made. If Novell prevails on its motion, some or all of our cash and cash equivalents could be encumbered. We can not guarantee whether our claims against IBM or Novell will be heard by a jury. The lawsuits with IBM and Novell will continue to be costly. In the event we are not successful with the IBM 9 Table of Contents or Novell motions, or the continuing litigation requires more cash than expected, our business and operations would be materially harmed. If we do not prevail in our action against IBM, or if IBM is successful in its counterclaims against us, our business and results of operations would be materially harmed. Additionally, the market price of our common stock may be negatively affected as a result of developments in our legal action against IBM that may be, or maybe perceived to be, adverse to us. We must continue to pay for expert, consulting and other expenses through the conclusion of our litigation with IBM and Novell. As we continue with discovery and other trial preparations, we may be required to place additional amounts into the escrow account, which could further reduce our liquidity position. Our claims relating to our UNIX intellectual property may subject us to additional legal proceedings. In August 2003, Red Hat brought a lawsuit against us asserting that the Linux operating system does not infringe our UNIX intellectual property rights and seeking a declaratory judgment for non-infringement of copyrights and no misappropriation of trade secrets. In addition, Red Hat claims we have engaged in false advertising in violation of the Lanham Act, deceptive trade practices, unfair competition, tortious interference with prospective business opportunities, and trade libel and disparagement. Although this case is currently stayed pending the resolution of our suit against IBM, we intend to vigorously defend this action. However, if Red Hat is successful in its claim against us, our business and results of operations could be materially harmed. Our Engagement Agreement with the Law Firms representing us in the SCO Litigation requires us to pay for expert, consulting and other costs, which could harm our liquidity position if these costs are higher than anticipated. On October 31, 2004, the Company entered into an engagement agreement (the “Engagement Agreement”) with Boies, Schiller & Flexner LLP, Kevin McBride and Berger Singerman (the “Law Firms”). This Engagement Agreement supercedes and replaces the original engagement agreement that was entered into in February 2003. The Engagement Agreement governs the relationship between the Company and the Law Firms in connection with their representation of the Company in the SCO Litigation. On June 5, 2006, we entered into an amendment to the Engagement Agreement and agreed with the Law Firms to deposit an additional $5,000,000 into the escrow account to cover additional expert, consulting and other expenses. During October 2006, we deposited an additional $5,000,000 into the escrow account. In the event that we exhaust these funds, we must continue to pay for expert, consulting and other expenses through the conclusion of our litigation with IBM. As we continue with discovery and other trial preparations, we may be required to place additional amounts into the escrow account, which could further reduce our liquidity position. As of October 31, 2006, we had a total of $7,618,000 in cash and cash equivalents and available-for-sale marketable securities and an additional $5,046,000 of restricted cash to be used to pursue the SCO Litigation. Since October 31, 2004, we have spent a total of $9,954,000 for expert, consulting and other costs and fees as agreed to in the Engagement Agreement with our legal counsel in the SCO Litigation. Developments in the SCO Litigation and fluctuations in our operating results or the failure of our operating results to meet the expectations of public market analysts and investors may negatively impact our stock price. Developments in the SCO Litigation and fluctuations in our operating results or our failure to meet the expectations of analysts or investors, even in the short-term, could cause our stock price to decline significantly. Because of the potential for fluctuations in our expenses related to the SCO Litigation in any particular period, you should not rely on comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of future performance. 10 Table of Contents Factors that may affect our results include: • results of, developments in, or costs of the SCO Litigation as well as adverse publicity regarding our business and the SCO Litigation; • changes in business attitudes toward UNIX as a viable operating system compared to other competing systems, especially Linux; • the outcome of pending motions for summary judgment and a preliminary injunction motion; • changes in general economic conditions, such as recessions, that could affect capital expenditures in the software industry; • the interest level of resellers in recommending our UNIX business solutions to end users and the introduction, development, timing, competitive pricing and market acceptance of our products and services and those of our competitors; • the contingency and other costs we may pay to the Law Firms representing us in our efforts to establish and defend our intellectual property rights; • changes in attitudes of customers and partners due to the decline in our UNIX business and our position against the inclusion of our UNIX code and derivative works in Linux; and • the activities of short sellers. We also experience fluctuations in operating results in interim periods in Europe and the Asia Pacific regions due to seasonal slowdowns and economic conditions in these areas. Seasonal slowdowns in these regions typically occur during the summer months. As a result of the factors listed above and elsewhere, it is possible that our results of operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors in any particular period. This could cause our stock price to decline. If revenue falls below our expectations, and we are unable to quickly reduce our spending in response, our operating results will be lower than expected. Our stock price may fall in response to these events. We operate in a highly competitive market and face significant competition from a variety of current and potential sources; many of our current and potential competitors have greater financial and technical resources than we do; thus, we may fail to compete effectively. In the operating system market, our competitors include IBM, Red Hat, Novell, Sun, Microsoft, and other UNIX and Linux distributors. These and other competitors are aggressively pursuing the current UNIX operating system market. Many of these competitors have access to substantially greater resources than we do. The major competitive alternative to our UNIX products is Linux. The expansion of our competitors’ offerings may restrict the overall market available for our UNIX products, including some markets where we have been successful in the past. Our future success may depend in part on our ability to continue to meet the increasing needs of our customers by supporting existing and emerging technologies. If we do not have the resources to enhance our products to meet these evolving needs, we may not remain competitive and be able to sustain our business. Additionally, because technological advancement in the UNIX operating system market and alternative operating system markets is progressing at an advanced pace, we will have to develop and introduce enhancements to our existing products and any new products on a timely basis to keep pace with these developments, evolving industry standards, changing customer requirements, and keeping current on certifications. Our failure to meet any of these and other competitive pressures may render our existing products and services obsolete, which would have an adverse impact on our revenue and operations. The success of our UNIX business will depend on the level of commitment and certification we receive from industry partners and developers. In recent years, we have seen hardware and software vendors as well as software developers turn their certification and application development efforts toward Linux and elect not to continue to support or certify to our UNIX operating system products. If 11 Table of Contents this trend continues, our competitive position will be adversely impacted and our future revenue from our UNIX business will decline. The decline in our UNIX business may be accelerated if industry partners withdraw their support from us for any reason, including our SCO Litigation. If the market for UNIX continues to contract, our business will be harmed. Our revenue from the sale of UNIX products has declined over the last several years. This decrease in revenue has been attributable primarily to increased competition from other operating systems, particularly Linux. Our sales of UNIX products and services are primarily to existing customers. If the demand for UNIX products continues to decline, and we are unable to develop UNIX products and services that successfully address a market demand, our UNIX revenue will continue to decline, industry participants may not certify to our operating system and products, we may not be able to attract new customers or retain existing customers and our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. Because of the long adoption cycle for operating system purchases and the long sales cycle of our operating system products, we may not be able to reverse these revenue declines quickly. We may lose the support of industry partners leading to an accelerated decline in our UNIX products and services revenue. The decline in our UNIX business may cause industry partners, developers, customers and hardware and software vendors to choose not to support or certify to our UNIX operating system products. This would lead to an increased decline in our UNIX products and services revenue and would adversely impact our results of operations and liquidity. We rely on our indirect sales channel for distribution of our products, and any disruption of our channel at any level could adversely affect the sales of our products. We have a two-tiered distribution channel. The relationships we have developed with resellers allow us to offer our products and services to a much larger customer base than we would otherwise be able to reach through our own direct sales and marketing efforts. Some solution providers also purchase solutions through our resellers, and we anticipate they will continue to do so. Because we usually sell indirectly through resellers, we cannot control the relationships through which resellers, solution providers or equipment integrators purchase our products. In turn, we do not control the presentation of our products to end users. Therefore, our sales could be affected by disruptions in the relationships between us and our resellers, between our resellers and solution providers, or between solution providers and end users. Also, resellers and solution providers may choose not to emphasize our products to their customers. Any of these occurrences could diminish the effectiveness of our distribution channel and lead to decreased sales. Our foreign-based operations and sales create special problems, including the imposition of governmental controls and taxes and fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could hurt our results. We have employees or contractors in certain locations in Europe, the Middle East, Latin America, and Asia. These foreign operations are subject to certain inherent risks, including: • potential loss of developed technology through piracy, misappropriation, or more lenient laws regarding intellectual property protection; • imposition of governmental controls, including trade restrictions and other tax requirements; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates and economic instability; • longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries; and • seasonal reductions in business activity. 12 Table of Contents In addition, certain of our operating expenses are denominated in local currencies, creating risk of foreign currency translation losses that could reduce our financial results and cash flows. When we generate profits in foreign countries, our effective income tax rate is increased. During the three months ended April 30, 2004, our Indian office was assessed withholding taxes by the Government of India Income Tax Department. The Tax Department assessed a 15% withholding tax on certain revenue transactions in India that the Tax Department deemed royalty revenue under the Income Tax Act. We have filed an appeal with the Tax Department and believe that revenue from our packaged software does not qualify for royalty treatment and therefore would not be subject to withholding tax. However, we may be unsuccessful in our appeal against the Tax Department and be obligated to pay the assessed taxable amounts. Because of our international operations, we may be subject to additional withholding or other taxes from other international jurisdictions. If we are unable to retain key personnel in an intensely competitive environment, our operations could be adversely affected. We need to retain our key management, technical and support personnel. Competition for qualified professionals in the software industry is intense, and departures of existing personnel could be disruptive to our business and might result in the departure of other employees. During October 2006 we were required to reduce our operating expenses and eliminated certain positions within our worldwide workforce in an effort to reduce operating costs. The loss or departure of any officers or key employees could harm our ability to implement our business plan and could adversely affect our operations. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued service and coordination of our management team, particularly Darl C. McBride, our President and Chief Executive Officer. We could lose our listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market if our stock price falls below $1.00 for 30 consecutive business days, and the loss of the listing would make our stock significantly less liquid and would affect its value. Our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market and had a closing price of $1.04 at the close of the market on January 24, 2007. If the price of our common stock falls below $1.00 and for 30 consecutive business days remains below $1.00, we will receive a deficiency notice from NASDAQ advising us that we have been afforded a 180-calendar day compliance period. If our stock fails to maintain a minimum bid price of $1.00 for 10 consecutive business days during a 180-day compliance period on the Nasdaq Capital Market or a 360-day grace period if compliance with certain core listing standards are demonstrated, we could receive a delisting notice from the Nasdaq Capital Market, and, under certain circumstances, even if our stock maintains a minimum bid price of $1.00 for 10 consecutive business days, we may receive a delisting notice from the Nasdaq Capital Market. Upon delisting from the Nasdaq Capital Market, our stock would be traded over-the-counter, more commonly known as OTC. OTC transactions involve risks in addition to those associated with transactions in securities traded on the Nasdaq Capital Market. Many OTC stocks trade less frequently and in smaller volumes than securities traded on the Nasdaq Capital Market. Accordingly, our stock would be less liquid than it would otherwise be, and the value of our stock could decrease. Our stock price is volatile. The trading price for our common stock has been volatile during the last several years and our share price has changed dramatically over short periods. We believe that changes in our stock price are affected by the factors mentioned above under the caption entitled “Fluctuations in our operating results or the failure of our operating results to meet the expectations of public market analysts and investors may negatively impact our stock price” as well as from changing public perceptions concerning the strength of the SCO Litigation and other factors beyond our control. Public perception can change quickly and without any change or development in our underlying business or litigation position. An investment in our stock is subject to such volatility and, consequently, is subject to significant risk. 13 Table of Contents There are risks associated with the potential exercise of our outstanding options. As of December 31, 2006, we have issued outstanding options to purchase up to approximately 5,499,000 shares of common stock with an average exercise price of $3.83 per share. The existence of such rights to acquire common stock at fixed prices may prove a hindrance to our efforts to raise future equity and debt funding, and the exercise of such rights will dilute the percentage ownership interest of our stockholders and may dilute the value of their ownership. The possible future sale of shares issuable on the exercise of outstanding options could adversely affect the prevailing market price for our common stock. Further, the holders of the outstanding stock options may exercise them at a time when we would otherwise be able to obtain additional equity capital on terms more favorable to us. Common stock available for resale may depress the market price of our common stock. We have filed a post-effective amendment to a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), which has been declared effective, covering the potential resale by two of our stockholders of up to 923,019 shares of common stock, or 4.3% of our outstanding common stock. The selling stockholders are bound by certain selling limitations, which limit the numbers of shares of our common stock that may be sold at one time. In addition, we have filed a registration statement with the SEC, which has been declared effective, covering the potential resale by some of our stockholders of up to 2,852,449 shares of our common stock, or 13.4% of our outstanding common stock. The existence of a substantial number of shares of common stock subject to immediate resale could depress the market price for our common stock and impair our ability to raise needed capital. Our stock price could decline further because of the activities of short sellers. Our stock has attracted significant interest from short sellers. The activities of short sellers could further reduce the price of our stock or inhibit increases in our stock price. The right of our Board of Directors to authorize additional shares of preferred stock could adversely impact the rights of holders of our common stock. Our Board of Directors currently has the right, with respect to the 5,000,000 shares of our preferred stock, to authorize the issuance of one or more additional series of our preferred stock with such voting, dividend and other rights as our directors determine. The Board of Directors can designate new series of preferred stock without the approval of the holders of our common stock. The rights of holders of our common stock may be adversely affected by the rights of any holders of additional shares of preferred stock that may be issued in the future, including without limitation, further dilution of the equity ownership percentage of our holders of common stock and their voting power if we issue preferred stock with voting rights. Additionally, the issuance of preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. Our stockholder rights plan could make it more difficult for a hostile bid for our company or a change of control transaction to succeed at current market prices for our stock. We have adopted a stockholder rights plan. The power given to the Board of Directors by the stockholder rights plan may make it more difficult for a change of control of our company to occur or for our company to be acquired if the acquisition is opposed by our Board of Directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 14 Table of Contents 