ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are certain risk factors that Management believes are specific to PremierWest Bancorp. These risks are not all inclusive and should be read in conjunction with the other information contained in this report. Credit Risk - Our earnings depend to a large extent upon the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans and our inability to manage credit risk would negatively affect our business. A source of risk arises from the possibility that losses will be sustained if a significant number of our borrowers, guarantors and related parties fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. We have adopted underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and a credit policy, including the establishment and review of the allowance for loan losses that Management believes are appropriate to minimize this risk by assessing the likelihood of nonperformance, tracking loan performance and diversifying our credit portfolio. These policies and procedures, however, involve subjective judgments and may not prevent unexpected loss es that could materially affect our results of operations. Moreover, bank regulators frequently monitor loan loss allowances, and if regulators were to determine that the allowance was inadequate, they may require us to increase the allowance, which also would adversely impact revenues and financial condition. Real Estate Collateral - Approximately 73% of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate, the majority of which is commercial real estate and continued market deterioration would lead to losses. Declining real estate values have caused increasing levels of charge-offs and provisions for loan losses. Continued declines in real estate market values could require increased charge-offs and a further increase in the allowance for loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Interest Rate Risk - Our earnings depend upon the spread between the interest rate we receive on loans and securities and the interest rates we pay on deposits and borrowings. Changes in interest rates could adversely impact our net interest margin, net interest income and net income. PremierWest Bancorp’s earnings are impacted by changing interest rates. Changes in interest rates affect the demand for new loans, the credit profile 9 of existing loans, the rates received on loans and securities and rates paid on deposits and borrowings. The relationship between the rates received on loans and securities and the rates paid on deposits and borrowings is known as interest rate spread. Given our current volume and mix of interest-bearing liabilities and interest-earning assets, our interest rate spread could be expected to increase during times of rising interest rates and, conversely, to decline during times of falling interest rates. Exposure to interest rate risk is managed by monitoring the re-pricing frequency of PremierWest Bank's rate-sensitive assets and rate-sensitive liabilities over any given period. Significant fluctuations in interest rates may have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Regulatory Risk - Our business is heavily regulated and the creation of additional regulations may negatively affect our operations. We are subject to government regulation that could limit or restrict our activities, which in turn could adversely impact our operations. The financial services industry is regulated extensively. Federal and state regulations are designed primarily to protect the deposit insurance funds and consumers, and not to benefit our stockholders. These regulations can sometimes impose significant limitations on our operations as well as result in higher operation costs. In addition, these regulations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. Significant new regulation or changes in existing regulations or repeal of existing laws may cause our results to differ materially. F urther, federal monetary policy, particularly as implemented through the Federal Reserve System, significantly affects credit conditions for us. Liquidity Risk - Market conditions or regulatory constraints could restrict our access to funds necessary to meet liquidity demands. Liquidity measures the ability to meet loan demand and deposit withdrawals and to pay liabilities as they come due. A sharp reduction in deposits or rapid loan growth could force us to borrow heavily in the wholesale deposit market, purchase federal funds from correspondent banks, borrow at the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle or Federal Reserve discount window, raise deposit interest rates or reduce lending activity. Wholesale deposits, federal funds and sources for borrowings may not be available to us due to future regulatory constraints, market conditions or unfavorable terms. We rely on the Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) of Seattle as a source of liquidity. Recently, the FHLB of Seattle announced that it did not meet minimum regulatory capital requirements for the year ended December 31, 2008, due to the deterioration in the market value of their mortgage-backed securities portfolio. As a result, the FHLB of Seattle cannot pay a dividend on their common stock and it cannot repurchase or redeem common stock. While the FHLB of Seattle has announced it does not anticipate that additional capital is immediately necessary, nor does it believe that its capital level is inadequate to support realized losses in the future, the FHLB of Seattle could require its members, including the Company, to contribute additional capital in order to return the FHLB of Seattle to compliance with capi tal guidelines. At December 31, 2008, the Company held $381,567 of cash on deposit with the FHLB of Seattle. At December 31, 2008, the Company maintained a line of credit with the FHLB of Seattle for $44.4 million and was in compliance with its related collateral requirements. At December 31, 2008, $14.3 million of the line of credit was available for additional borrowings. The Company is highly dependent on the FHLB of Seattle to provide a source of wholesale funding for immediate liquidity and borrowing needs. Changes or disruptions to the FHLB of Seattle or the FHLB system in general, may materially impair the Company’s ability to meet its growth plans or to meet short and long term liquidity demands. Competition - The financial services industry is highly competitive. Competition may adversely affect our performance. The financial services industry is becoming increasingly competitive due to changes in regulation, technological advances, and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial services providers. We face competition both in attracting deposits and in originating loans and providing transactional services. Dividend Restrictions - Our ability to pay dividends, repurchase shares or repay indebtedness depends primarily upon the results of operations of PremierWest Bank. We are a separate distinct legal entity from PremierWest Bank and receive substantially all of our revenue from dividends from the Bank. There are legal limitations on the extent to which the Bank may extend credit, pay dividends or otherwise supply funds to, or engage in transactions with, us. Our inability to receive dividends from the Bank would adversely affect our financial condition. The Bank’s ability to pay dividends is primarily dependent on net interest income, which is the income that remains after deducting from total income generated by earning assets the expense attributable to the acquisition of the funds required to support earning ass ets (primarily interest paid on deposits). The amount of interest income is dependent on many factors including the volume of earning assets, the general level of interest rates, the dynamics of changes in interest rates and the levels of nonperforming loans. Various statutory provisions restrict the amount of dividends the Bank can pay to us without regulatory approval. The Bank may not pay cash dividends if that payment could reduce the amount of its capital below that necessary to meet the “adequately capitalized” level in 10 accordance with regulatory capital requirements. It is also possible that, depending upon the financial condition of the Bank and other factors, regulatory authorities could assert that payment of dividends or other payments, including payments to us, is an unsafe or unsound practice. Under Oregon law, the amount of a dividend from the Bank may not be greater than net unreserved retained earnings, after first deducting to the extent not already charged against earnings or reflected in a reserve, all bad debts, which are debts on which interest is unpaid and past due at least six months; all other assets charged-off as required by the Oregon Division of Finance and Corporate Securities or state or federal examiner; and all accrued expenses, interest and taxes. Management Risk - We may not effectively manage our growth or future acquisitions which could adversely affect the quality of our operations and our costs. PremierWest Bancorp’s financial performance and profitability will depend on our ability to manage recent growth and implement our plans and strategies for future growth. Although Management believes that it has substantially integrated the business and operations of recent acquisitions, there can be no assurance that unforeseen issues relating to the acquisitions will not adversely affect us. In addition, any future acquisitions and continued growth may present operational or other problems that could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to execute o ur growth strategy or maintain the level of profitability that we have recently experienced. Industry Conditions - Difficult market conditions have adversely affected our industry. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than twelve months. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities. These write-downs have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institution al investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial services industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: We expect to face increased regulation of our industry, including the results of the EESA and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”). Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. Government stimulus packages and other responses to the financial crises may not stabilize the economy or financial system. Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite our customers become less predictive of future behaviors. The process we use to estimate losses inherent in its credit exposure requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic predictions might impair the ability of the Bank’s borrowers to repay their loans, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process. We will be required to pay significantly higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation premiums because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. There may be downward pressure on our stock price. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions and government sponsored entities. We may face increased competition due to intensified consolidation of the financial services industry. 11 If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital, on our business, our financial condition and results of operations. Impairment Risk - A significant decline in the market value of our common stock could result in an impairment of goodwill. Our common stock has traded at prices below book value, including goodwill and other intangible assets, and the valuation of goodwill is determined using discounted cash flows of forecasted earnings, estimated sales price based on recent observable market transactions and market capitalization based on current stock price. We are required to test for goodwill impairment periodically and if goodwill impairment is deemed to exist, a write-down of the asset would occur with a charge to earnings. Technology Risk - We rely on technology to deliver products and serves and interact with our customers. We face operational risks as we depend on internal and outsourced technology to support all aspects of our business operations. Interruption or failure of these systems creates a risk of loss of customers if technology fails to work as expected and risk of regulatory scrutiny if security breaches occur. Risk management programs are expensive to maintain and will not protect the company from all risks associated with maintaining the security of customer information, proprietary data, external and internal intrusions, disaster recovery and failures in the controls used by vendors. Accounting Standards - Changes in accounting standards may impact how we report our financial condition and results of operations. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) changes the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Valuation Risk - The value of securities in our investment securities portfolio may be negatively affected by continued disruptions in securities markets. The market for some of the investment securities held in our portfolio has become extremely volatile over the past twelve months. Market conditions may negatively affect the value of securities. There can be no assurance that the declines in market value associated with these disruptions will not result in other-than-temporary impairments of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges that could have a material adverse effect on our net income and capital levels. Geographic Concentration - Our operations are geographically concentrated in southern Oregon and northern California and our business is sensitive to economic factors that relate to regional business conditions. Our geographic footprint is predominantly situated along the Interstate 5 corridor from just south of Eugene, Oregon to Sacramento, California. Our customers are directly and indirectly dependent upon the economies of these areas and upon the timber and tourism industries, which are significant employers and revenue sources in our markets—economic factors that affect these industries will have a disproportionately negative impact on our region and our customers. A deterioration in economic and business conditions in our market areas could have a material adverse impact on the quality of our loan portfoli o, the demand for our products and our results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 