ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Ownership of our common stock involves risk. You should carefully consider, in addition to the other information set forth herein, the following risk factors. Our business has been and may continue to be adversely affected by current conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. The global financial markets have undergone and may continue to experience pervasive and fundamental disruptions. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers' underlying financial strength. While the capital markets have recently shown signs of improvement, the sustainability of an economic recovery is uncertain as business activity across a wide range of industries continues to face difficulties due to the lack of consumer spending and rise in unemployment. A sustained weakness or weakening in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the principal markets in which we do business could have one or more of the following adverse effects on our business: •a decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by us; •a decrease in deposit balances due to overall reductions in the accounts of customers; •a decrease in the value of our loans or other assets secured by consumer or commercial real estate; •an impairment of certain intangible assets; or •an increase in the number of borrowers who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to us. An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs and provision for credit losses. Overall, the recession has had an adverse effect on our business, and there can be no assurance that an economic recovery will be sustainable in the near term. Until conditions improve, we expect our business, financial condition and results of operations to be adversely affected. Changes in economic conditions, in particular a worsening of the economic slowdown in Southern California, could materially and adversely affect our business. Our business is directly impacted by factors such as economic, political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, and changes in government monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond our control. The current economic conditions have caused a lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. These circumstances may continue to lead to an increase in nonaccrual and classified loans, which generally results in a provision for credit losses and in turn reduces the Company's net earnings. The State of California continues to face fiscal challenges, the long-term effects of which on the State's economy cannot be predicted. A further deterioration in the economic conditions, whether caused by national or local concerns, as discussed above, could materially and adversely affect our business. In particular, a continued deterioration of the economic conditions in Southern California could result in the following consequences, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business: loan delinquencies may increase; problem assets and foreclosures may increase; demand for our products and services may decrease; low cost or noninterest bearing deposits may decrease; and collateral for loans made by us, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing customers' borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with 22 Table of Contents our existing loans. Until conditions provide for sustainable improvement, we expect our business, financial condition and results of operations to be adversely affected. Further disruptions in the real estate market could materially and adversely affect our business. There has been a slow-down in the real estate market due to negative economic trends and credit market disruption, the impacts of which are not yet completely known or quantified. At December 31, 2009, 59% of our non-covered loans were secured by commercial real estate, 7% were secured by commercial real estate construction projects, 5% were secured by residential real estate construction projects and 6% were secured by residential real estate. We have observed in the marketplace tighter credit underwriting and higher premiums on liquidity, both of which may continue to place downward pressure on real estate values. Any further downturn in the real estate market could materially and adversely affect our business because a significant portion of our non-covered loans are secured by real estate. Our ability to recover on defaulted non-covered loans by selling the real estate collateral would then be diminished and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted non-covered loans. Substantially all of our real property collateral is located in Southern California. If there is a further decline in real estate values, especially in Southern California, the collateral for our non-covered loans would provide less security. Real estate values could be affected by, among other things, a worsening of the economic conditions, an increase in foreclosures, a decline in home sale volumes, an increase in interest rates, high levels of unemployment, earthquakes and other natural disasters particular to California. Our business is subject to interest rate risk, and variations in interest rates may materially and adversely affect our financial performance. Changes in the interest rate environment may reduce our profits. It is expected that we will continue to realize income from the differential or "spread" between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest bearing liabilities. Net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and repricing characteristics of interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities. Changes in market interest rates generally affect loan volume, loan yields, funding sources and funding costs. Our net interest spread depends on many factors that are partly or completely out of our control, including competition, federal economic monetary and fiscal policies, and general economic conditions. While an increase in the general level of interest rates may increase our loan yield, it may adversely affect the ability of certain borrowers with variable rate loans to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations. In addition, an increase in market interest rates on loans is generally associated with a lower volume of loan originations, which may reduce earnings. Following an increase in the general level of interest rates our ability to maintain a positive net interest spreads is dependent on our ability to increase our loan offering rates, replace loan maturities with new originations, minimize increases on our deposit rates, and maintain an acceptable level and mix of funding. We cannot provide assurances that we will be able to increase our loan offering rates and continue to originate loans due to the competitive landscape in which we operate. Additionally, we cannot provide assurances that we can minimize the increases in our deposit rates while maintaining an acceptable level of deposits. Finally, we cannot provide any assurances that we can maintain our current levels of noninterest bearing deposits as customers may seek higher yielding products when rates increase. Following a decline in the general level of interest rates, our ability to maintain a positive net interest spread is dependent on our ability to reduce the interest paid on deposits, borrowings, and other interest bearing liabilities. We cannot provide assurance that we would be able to lower the rates paid on deposit accounts to support our liquidity requirements as lower rates may result in deposit outflows. 23 Table of Contents Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, loan origination volume, liquidity, and overall profitability. We cannot assure you that we can minimize our interest rate risk. We face strong competition from financial services companies and other companies that offer banking services which could materially and adversely affect our business. We conduct our banking operations primarily in Southern California. Increased competition in our market may result in reduced loans and deposits. Ultimately, we may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Many competitors offer the same banking services that we offer in our service area. These competitors include national banks, regional banks and other community banks. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including without limitation, savings and loan institutions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries. In particular, our competitors include several major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations and ATMs and conduct extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Additionally, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions have larger lending limits and are thereby able to serve the credit needs of larger customers. Areas of competition include interest rates for loans and deposits, efforts to obtain deposits, and range and quality of products and services provided, including new technology driven products and services. Technological innovation continues to contribute to greater competition in domestic and international financial services markets as technological advances enable more companies to provide financial services. We also face competition from out-of-state financial intermediaries that have opened production offices or that solicit deposits in our market areas. Additionally, we expect competition to intensify among financial services companies due to the recent consolidation of certain competing financial institutions and the conversion of certain investment banks to bank holding companies. Should competition in the financial services industry intensify, our ability to market our products and services may be adversely affected. If we are unable to attract and retain banking customers, we may be unable to grow or maintain the levels of our loans and deposits and our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. The disruption in the credit markets has had the effect of decreasing the overall liquidity in the marketplace. Competition from financial institutions seeking to maintain adequate liquidity has placed upward pressure on the rates paid on certain deposit accounts at the same time the level of market interest rates has declined. To maintain adequate levels of liquidity, without exhausting secondary sources of liquidity, we may incur increased deposit costs. Several rating agencies publish unsolicited ratings of the financial performance and relative financial health of many banks, including Pacific Western, based on publicly available data. As these ratings are publicly available, a decline in the Bank's ratings may result in deposit outflows or the inability of the Bank to raise deposits in the secondary market as broker-dealers and depositors may use such ratings in deciding where to deposit their funds. We may need to raise additional capital in the future and such capital may not be available when needed or at all. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs. As a publicly traded company, we have access to the capital markets to raise funds, which is accomplished generally through the issuance of equity, both common and preferred stock, and the issuance of subordinated debentures. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and our financial performance. The ongoing liquidity 24 Table of Contents crisis and the loss of confidence in financial institutions may increase our cost of funding and limit our access to some of our customary sources of liquidity, including, but not limited to, inter-bank borrowings, repurchase agreements and borrowings from the discount window of the Federal Reserve. We cannot assure you that access to such capital and liquidity will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt purchasers, or depositors of the Bank or counterparties participating in the capital markets may materially and adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. An inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could have a materially adverse effect on our business. We are subject to extensive regulation which could materially and adversely affect our business. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal and state governmental authorities, and we are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of our operations. In addition, regulations affecting banks and other financial institutions are undergoing continuous review and change frequently; the ultimate effect of such changes cannot be predicted. Because our business is highly regulated, compliance with such regulations and laws may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. Also, participation in specific government stabilization programs may subject us to additional restrictions. There can be no assurance that proposed laws, rules and regulations will not be adopted in the future, which could (i) make compliance much more difficult or expensive, (ii) restrict our ability to originate, broker or sell loans or accept certain deposits, (iii) further limit or restrict the amount of commissions, interest or other charges earned on loans originated or sold by us, or (iv) otherwise materially and adversely affect our business or prospects for business. Recent events in the financial services industry and, more generally, in the financial markets and the economy, have also led to various proposals for changes in the regulation of the financial services industry. Earlier in 2009, legislation proposing significant structural reforms to the financial services industry was introduced in the U.S. Congress. Among other things, the legislation proposes the establishment of a Consumer Financial Protection Agency, which would have broad authority to regulate providers of credit, savings, payment and other consumer financial products and services. Additional legislative proposals call for heightened scrutiny and regulation of any financial firm whose combination of size, leverage, and interconnectedness could, if it failed, pose a threat to the country's financial stability, including the power to restrict the activities of such firms and even require the break-up of such firms at the behest of the relevant regulator. Other relevant recent initiatives also include: (i)the Federal Reserve's proposed guidance on incentive compensation policies at banking organizations and the FDIC's proposed rules tying employee compensation to assessments for deposit insurance; and (ii)proposals to limit a lender's ability to foreclose on mortgages or make such foreclosures less economically viable, including by allowing Chapter 13 bankruptcy plans to "cram down" the value of certain mortgages on a consumer's principal residence to its market value and/or reset interest rates and monthly payments to permit defaulting debtors to remain in their home. While there can be no assurance that any or all of these regulatory or legislative changes will ultimately be adopted, any such changes, if enacted or adopted, may impact the profitability of our business activities, require we change certain of our business practices, materially affect our business model or affect retention of key personnel, and could expose us to additional costs (including increased compliance costs). These changes may also require us to invest significant management attention and 25 Table of Contents resources to make any necessary changes, and could therefore also adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, in order to conduct certain activities, including acquisitions, we are required to obtain regulatory approval. There can be no assurance that any required approvals can be obtained, or obtained without conditions or on a timeframe acceptable to us. For more information, please see the section entitled "Item 1. Business—Supervision and Regulation" above. There can be no assurance that the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 ("EESA") and other recently enacted government programs will help stabilize the U.S. financial system. In addition to the programs initiated under the EESA, other regulators have taken steps to attempt to stabilize and add liquidity to the financial markets, such as the FDIC's Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program ("TLG Program"), in which we elected to participate. There can also be no assurance as to the actual impact that the EESA and other programs will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. The failure of the EESA and other programs to stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit, or the trading price of our common stock. The EESA is relatively new legislation and, as such, is subject to change and evolving interpretation. There can be no assurances as to the effects that such changes will have on the effectiveness of the EESA or on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may adversely affect our earnings. During 2008 and 2009, higher levels of bank failures have dramatically increased resolution costs of the FDIC and depleted the deposit insurance fund. In addition, the FDIC instituted temporary programs to further insure customer deposits at FDIC insured banks, which have placed additional stress on the deposit insurance fund. In order to maintain a strong funding position and restore reserve ratios of the deposit insurance fund, the FDIC has increased assessment rates of insured institutions. In addition, on November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted a rule requiring banks to prepay three years' worth of premiums to replenish the depleted insurance fund. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased levels. Further, on January 12, 2010, the FDIC requested comments on a proposed rule tying assessment rates of FDIC-insured institutions to the institution's employee compensation programs. The exact requirements of such a rule are not yet known, but such a rule could increase the amount of premiums the Bank must pay for FDIC insurance. These announced increases and any future increases or required prepayments of FDIC insurance premiums may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. We are exposed to transactional, country and legal risk related to our foreign loans that is in addition to risks we face on loans to U.S. based borrowers. Approximately 1% of our non-covered loan portfolio is represented by credit we extend and loans we make to business located outside the United States, predominantly in Mexico. These loans, which include commercial loans, real estate loans and credit extensions for the financing of international trade, are subject to risks in addition to risks we face with our loans to business located in the United States including, but not limited to transaction risk, country risk and legal risk. While these loans are denominated in U.S. dollars, the ability of the borrower to repay may be affected by fluctuations in the 26 Table of Contents borrower's home country currency relative to the U.S. dollar. Additionally, while most of our foreign loans are insured by U.S.-based institutions, guaranteed by a U.S.-based entity, or collateralized with U.S.-based assets or real property, our ability to collect in the event of default is subject to a number of conditions, as well as deductibles and co-payments with respect to insurance, and we may not be successful in obtaining partial or full repayment or reimbursement from the insurers. Furthermore, foreign laws may restrict our ability to foreclose on, take a security interest in, or seize collateral located in the foreign country. We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title. In the course of our business, we may own or foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may not pay dividends on common stock. Our stockholders are only entitled to receive such dividends as our Board of Directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and may reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. Our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders is subject to the restrictions set forth in Delaware law, by our federal regulator, and by certain covenants contained in the indentures governing the trust preferred securities issued by us or entities we have acquired. Notification to the FRB is also required prior to our declaring and paying a cash dividend to our stockholders during any period in which our quarterly net earnings are insufficient to fund the dividend amount. We may not pay a dividend should the FRB object until such time as we receive approval from the FRB or no longer need to provide notice under applicable regulations. See "Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters—Dividends" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information on these restrictions. In addition, we may be restricted by applicable law or regulation or actions taken by our regulators, or as a result of our participation in any specific government stabilization programs, now or in the future, from paying dividends to our stockholders. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will continue paying dividends on our common stock at current levels or at all. The primary source of our income from which we pay dividends is the receipt of dividends from the Bank. The availability of dividends from the Bank is limited by various statutes and regulations. It is possible, depending upon the financial condition of the Bank and other factors, that the FRB, the FDIC and/or the DFI could assert that payment of dividends or other payments is an unsafe or unsound practice, or that such regulatory authority may impose restrictions on the Bank's ability to pay dividends as a condition to the Bank's participation in any stabilization program. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends to us, it is likely that we, in turn, would have to stop paying dividends on our common stock. Our failure to pay dividends on our common stock could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. See "Item 1. Business—Supervision and Regulation" above for additional information on the regulatory restrictions to which we and the Bank are subject. 27 Table of Contents Only a limited trading market exists for our common stock which could lead to price volatility. Our common stock trades on The NASDAQ Global Select Stock Market under the symbol "PACW" and our trading volume is modest. The limited trading market for our common stock may cause fluctuations in the market value of our common stock to be exaggerated, leading to price volatility in excess of that which would occur in a more active trading market of our common stock. In addition, even if a more active market in our common stock develops, we cannot assure you that such a market will continue or that stockholders will be able to sell their shares. Our allowance for credit losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. In accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance and a reserve for unfunded loan commitments which, when combined, we refer to as the allowance for credit losses. Our allowance for credit losses may not be adequate to cover actual credit losses, and future provisions for credit losses could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Our allowance for credit losses is based on prior experience, as well as an evaluation of the risks in the current portfolio. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. Our federal and state regulators, as an integral part of their examination process, review our loans and allowance for credit losses. While we believe our allowance for credit losses is appropriate for the risk identified in the Company's loan portfolio, we cannot assure you that we will not further increase the allowance for credit losses, that it will be sufficient to cover losses, or that regulators will not require us to increase this allowance. Any of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect our earnings. See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information. Our acquisitions may subject us to unknown risks. We have completed 21 acquisitions since May 2000, including the acquisition of two bank subsidiaries around which the Company was initially formed and the FDIC assisted acquisition of Affinity Bank in August 2009. Certain events may arise after the date of an acquisition, or we may learn of certain facts, events or circumstances after the closing of an acquisition, that may affect our financial condition or performance or subject us to risk of loss. These events include, but are not limited to: litigation resulting from circumstances occurring at the acquired entity prior to the date of acquisition; loan downgrades and credit loss provisions resulting from underwriting of certain acquired loans determined not to meet our credit standards; personnel changes that cause instability within a department; delays in implementing new policies or procedures or the failure to apply new policies or procedures; and other events relating to the performance of our business. Acquisitions involve inherent uncertainty and we cannot determine all potential events, facts and circumstances that could result in loss or give assurances that our investigation or mitigation efforts will be sufficient to protect against any such loss. We are dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel may materially and adversely affect our prospects. We currently depend heavily on the services of our chairman, John Eggemeyer, our chief executive officer, Matthew Wagner, and a number of other key management personnel. The loss of Mr. Eggemeyer's or Mr. Wagner's services or that of other key personnel could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our success also depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain additional qualified management personnel. Competition for such personnel is strong in the banking industry, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining the personnel we require. 28 Table of Contents Concentrated ownership of our common stock creates a risk of sudden changes in our share price. As of March 5, 2010, directors and members of our executive management team owned or controlled approximately 14.6% of our common stock, excluding shares that may be issued to executive officers upon vesting of restricted stock awards. Investors who purchase our common stock may be subject to certain risks due to the concentrated ownership of our common stock. The sale by any of our large stockholders of a significant portion of that stockholder's holdings could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the registration of any significant amount of additional shares of our common stock will have the immediate effect of increasing the public float of our common stock and any such increase may cause the market price of our common stock to decline or fluctuate significantly. Our largest stockholder is a registered bank holding company, and the activities and regulation of such stockholder may materially and adversely affect the permissible activities of the Company. CapGen Capital Group II LP, which we refer to as CapGen, beneficially owned approximately 11% of the Company as of March 5, 2010. CapGen is a registered bank holding company under the BHCA and is regulated by the FRB. Under FRB guidelines, bank holding companies must be a "source of strength" for their subsidiaries. See "Item 1. Business—Supervision and Regulation—Bank Holding Company Regulation" above for more information. Regulation of CapGen by the FRB may materially and adversely affect the activities and strategic plans of the Company should the FRB determine that CapGen or any other company in which either has invested has engaged in any unsafe or unsound banking practices or activities. While we have no reason to believe that the FRB is proposing to take any action with respect to CapGen that would adversely affect the Company, we remain subject to such risk. A natural disaster could harm the Company's business. Historically, California, in which a substantial portion of the Company's business is located, has been susceptible to natural disasters, such as earthquakes, floods and wild fires. The nature and level of natural disasters cannot be predicted and may be exacerbated by global climate change. These natural disasters could harm the Company's operations through interference with communications, including the interruption or loss of the Company's computer systems, which could prevent or impede the Company from gathering deposits, originating loans and processing and controlling its flow of business, as well as through the destruction of facilities and the Company's operational, financial and management information systems. Additionally, natural disasters could negatively impact the values of collateral securing the Company's loans and interrupt our borrowers' abilities to conduct their business in a manner to support their debt obligations, either of which could result in losses and increased provisions for credit losses. Our decisions regarding the fair value of assets acquired, including the FDIC loss sharing asset, could be inaccurate which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and future prospects. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of the acquired loans, including the creditworthiness of borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of secured loans. In FDIC-assisted acquisitions that include loss sharing agreements, we may record a loss sharing asset that we consider adequate to absorb future losses which may occur in the acquired loan portfolio. In determining the size of the loss sharing asset, we analyze the loan portfolio based on historical loss experience, volume and classification of loans, volume and trends in delinquencies and nonaccruals, local economic conditions, and other pertinent information. 29 Table of Contents If our assumptions are incorrect, the balance of the FDIC loss sharing asset may at any time be insufficient to cover future loan losses, and credit loss provisions may be needed to respond to different economic conditions or adverse developments in the acquired loan portfolio. Any increase in future loan losses could have a negative effect on our operating results. Our ability to obtain reimbursement under the loss sharing agreement on covered assets depends on our compliance with the terms of the loss sharing agreement. Management must certify to the FDIC on a quarterly basis our compliance with the terms of the FDIC loss sharing agreement as a prerequisite to obtaining reimbursement from the FDIC for realized losses on covered assets. The required terms of the agreement are extensive and failure to comply with any of the guidelines could result in a specific asset or group of assets permanently losing their loss sharing coverage. Additionally, management may decide to forgo loss share coverage on certain assets to allow greater flexibility over the management of certain assets. As of December 31, 2009, $701.5 million, or 13.2%, of the Company's assets were covered by the FDIC loss sharing agreement. Under the terms of the FDIC loss sharing agreement, the assignment or transfer of the loss sharing agreement to another entity generally requires the written consent of the FDIC. In addition, the Bank may not assign or otherwise transfer the loss sharing agreement during its term without the prior written consent of the FDIC in all of the following circumstances: 1.a merger or consolidation of the Bank with and into another financial institution; 2.the sale of all or substantially all of the Bank's assets to another financial institution; and 3.for a period of 36 months after the August 28, 2009 Affinity acquisition date a.the sale by any individual shareholder, or shareholders acting in concert, of more than 9% of the outstanding shares of either the Bank or the Company; b.the sale of shares by the Bank or the Company in a public or private offering that increases the number of shares outstanding of either the Bank or the Company by more than 9%. No assurances can be given that we will manage the covered assets in such a way as to always maintain loss share coverage on all such assets. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 