D. Risk Factors Due to the nature of the Company’s business and the present stage of exploration on its mineral resource properties, the following risk factors apply to the Company’s operations (see “Item 4. Information on the Company – History and Development of the Company”): The title to mineral claims is often uncertain and there may be challenges or problems to the Company's title to its mineral properties. The Company has mineral claims which constitute the Company's property holdings. The ownership and validity of mining claims are often uncertain and may be contested. The Company does not obtain title insurance for its property interests. The possibility exists that title to one or more of its concessions, particularly title to undeveloped claims, might be defective because of errors or omissions in the chain of title, including defects in conveyances and defects in locating or maintaining such claims, or concessions. - 11 - The Company’s mineral property interests may be subject to prior unregistered agreements or transfers or native land claims and title may be affected by undetected defects. Surveys have not been carried out on any of the Company’s mineral properties, therefore, in accordance with the laws of the jurisdiction in which such properties are situated; their existence and area could be in doubt. Until competing interests in the mineral lands have been determined, the Company can give no assurance as to the validity of title of the Company to those lands or the size of such mineral lands. If the Company, or the person or entity from which the Company has obtained an option for property interests, does not have proper title to its property interests, the Company may incur significant expenses defending or acquiring proper title and/or may have to abandon such interests, which may result in significant losses for the Company and could result in the Company having to cease all of its activities. The Company has a history of losses and has not generated any revenues from operations. The Company has historically incurred losses as evidenced by its audited consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 (outside of net income in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 due primarily to the Navidad recovery). The Company has financed its operations principally through the sale of its equity securities. The Company does not anticipate that it will earn any revenue from its operations until its properties are placement into production, if ever. If the Company is unable to place its properties into production, the Company may never realize revenues from operations, will continue to incur losses and you may lose the value of your investment. The Company has no history of production and may never achieve revenues or profitability. The Company’s properties are not in commercial production, and the Company has never recorded any revenues from mining operations. The Company expects to incur losses unless and until such time as its properties enter into commercial production and generate sufficient revenues to fund its continuing operations. The development of mining operations on its properties will require the commitment of substantial resources for operating expenses and capital expenditures, which may increase in subsequent years as needed consultants, personnel and equipment associated with advancing development and commercial production of its properties is added. The amounts and timing of expenditures will depend on the progress of ongoing development, the results of consultants’ analysis and recommendations, the rate at which operating losses are incurred, the execution of any joint venture agreements with strategic partners, the acquisition of additional properties, and other factors, many of which are beyond its control. The Company may not generate any revenues or achieve profitability. The Company's exploration activities may not be commercially successful. The Company’s property interests are in the exploration stage and do not contain any “reserves”, as that term is defined in SEC Industry Guide 7. The term “reserves” is defined in SEC Industry Guide 7 as “that part of a mineral deposit which could be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination.” Mineral exploration involves significant risk and few properties that are explored are ultimately developed into producing mines. The probability of an individual prospect ever having reserves that meet the requirements of SEC Industry Guide 7 is extremely remote. The Company’s property interests, in all probability, do not contain any reserves and any funds spent on exploration of the Company’s property interests will probably be lost. The success of mineral exploration and development is determined in part by the following factors: · the identification of potential mineralization based on analysis; · the availability of exploration permits; · the quality of the Company’s management and its geological and technical expertise; and · the capital available for exploration. - 12 - Whether a mineral deposit will be commercially viable depends on a number of factors, which include, without limitation, the particular attributes of the deposit, such as size, grade and proximity to infrastructure; metal prices, which fluctuate widely; and government regulations, including, without limitation, regulations relating to prices, taxes, royalties, land tenure, land use, importing and exporting of minerals and environmental protection. If any of the Company's exploration programs are successful, the Company will require additional funds to advance the property beyond the exploration stage. Substantial expenditures are required to establish reserves through drilling, to develop metallurgical processes to extract the metal from the ore and, in the case of new properties, to develop the mining and processing facilities and infrastructure at any site chosen for mining. If the Company is unable to secure additional funding, the Company may lose its interest in one or more of its mineral claims and/or may be required to cease all activities. The Company seeks additional capital through equity financings or joint venture arrangements. The Company presently has sufficient financial resources to meet its commitments for the foreseeable future; however, the Company will continue to rely on successfully completing additional equity financing and/or conducting joint venture arrangements to further exploration on its properties. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in obtaining the required financing or negotiating joint venture agreements. The Company’s management may elect to acquire new projects, at which time additional equity financing may be required to fund overhead and maintain its interests in current projects, or may decide to relinquish certain of its properties. These decisions will be based on the results of ongoing exploration programs and the response of equity markets to the project s and business plan. The failure to obtain such financing or complete joint venture arrangements could result in the loss or substantial dilution of the Company’s interests (as existing or as proposed to be acquired) in its properties as disclosed herein. The Company does not have any definitive commitment or agreement concerning any investment, strategic alliance or related effort. Joint ventures and other partnerships in relation to the Company’s properties may expose the Company to risks. The Company may seek joint venture partners to provide funding for further work on any or all of those other properties. Joint ventures may involve significant risks and the Company may lose any investment it makes in a joint venture. Any investments, strategic alliances or related efforts are accompanied by risks such as: · the difficulty of identifying appropriate joint venture partners or opportunities; · the time the Company’s senior management must spend negotiating agreements and monitoring joint venture activities; · the possibility that the Company may not be able to reach agreement on definitive agreements, with potential joint venture partners; · potential regulatory issues applicable to the mineral exploration business; · the investment of the Company’s capital or properties and the loss of control over the return of the Company’s capital or assets; · the inability of management to capitalize on the growth opportunities presented by joint ventures; and · the insolvency of any joint venture partner. There are no assurances that the Company would be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered with joint ventures, strategic alliances or related efforts. Exploration, development and mining involve a high degree of risk. Mineral exploration is highly speculative in nature, involves many risks and frequently is nonproductive. There can be no assurance that the Company’s efforts to identify resources will be successful. Moreover, substantial expenditures are required to establish resources through drilling, to determine metallurgical processes to extract the metal from the ore and to construct mining and processing facilities. During the time required to establish resources, determine suitable metallurgical processes and construct such mining and processing facilities, the economic feasibility of production may change because of fluctuating prices. - 13 - The Company’s operations will be subject to all the hazards and risks normally encountered in the exploration, development and production of basemetals, precious metals, or other bulk materials, including, without limitation, encountering unusual or unexpected geologic formations or other geological or grade problems, unanticipated changes in metallurgical characteristics and metal recovery, periodic interruptions due to inclement or hazardous weather condition, seismic activity, rock bursts, pit-wall failures, cave-ins, encountering unanticipated ground or water conditions, flooding, fire, and other conditions involved in the drilling, removal of material, environmental hazards, discharge of pollutants or hazardous chemicals, industrial accidents, failure of processing and mining equipment, labour disputes, supply problems and d elays and changes in the regulatory environment any of which could result in damage to, or destruction of, mineral properties, mines and other producing facilities, damage to life or property, personal injury or death, loss of key employees, environmental damage, delays in the Company’s exploration and development activities, monetary losses and legal liabilities. Satisfying such liabilities may be very costly and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s future cash flow, results of operations and financial condition. The Company may be adversely affected by fluctuations in metal prices. The value and price of the common shares of the Company, financial results, and its exploration, development and mining, if any, activities may be significantly adversely affected by declines in the price of metals. Mineral prices fluctuate widely and are affected by numerous factors beyond the Company’s control such as interest rates, exchange rates, inflation or deflation, fluctuation in the value of the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies, global and regional supply and demand, and the political and economic conditions of mineral producing countries throughout the world. The price for metals can fluctuate in response to many factors beyond anyone’s ability to predict. The prices used in making the resource estimates are differ from daily prices quoted in the news media. The percentage change in the price of a metal cannot be directly related to the estimated resource quantities, which are affected by a number of additional factors. For example, a 10 percent change in price may have little impact on the estimated resource quantities and affect only the resultant cash flow, or it may result in a significant change in the amount of resources. Because mining occurs over a number of years, it may be prudent to continue mining for some periods during which cash flows are temporarily negative for a variety of reasons, including a belief that the low price is temporary and/or the greater expense incurred in closing a property permanently. Litigation may adversely affect the Company’s assets. The Company may be involved in disputes with other parties in the future, which may result in litigation. The results of litigation cannot be predicted with certainty. If the Company is unable to resolve these disputes favorably, it may have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial performance, cash flow and results of operations. The Company is subject to risks related to community action. All industries, including the mining industry, are subject to community actions. In recent years, communities and nongovernmental organizations have become more vocal and active with respect to mining activities at or near their communities. These parties may take actions such as road blockades, applications for injunctions seeking work stoppage and lawsuits for damages. These actions can relate not only to current activities but also in respect of decades old mining activities by prior owners of subject mining properties. Mineral resources and proven and probable reserves are estimates. Although the mineralized material and resource figures included in this document have been carefully prepared by independent engineers and geologists, these amounts are estimates only, and the Company cannot be certain that specific quantities of copper or other minerals will in fact be realized. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating measured, indicated and inferred mineral resources including many factors beyond the Company’s control. The estimation of mineral resources is necessarily a subjective process, and the accuracy of any such estimates are a function of the quantity and quality of available data and of the assumptions made and judgments - 14 - used in engineering and geological interpretations, which may prove to be unreliable and different materially from actual results. Any material change in the quantity of mineralization, grade or stripping ratio, or mineral prices may affect the economic viability of its properties. In addition, the Company cannot be certain that metal recoveries in small-scale laboratory tests will be duplicated in larger scale tests under on-site conditions or during production. Until an unmined deposit is actually mined and processed the quantity of mineral resources and grades must be considered as estimates only. Differences in United States and Canadian reporting of reserves and resources. The disclosure in this prospectus, including the documents incorporated herein by reference, uses terms that comply with reporting standards in Canada. In addition, the terms “mineral resource”, “measured mineral resource”, “indicated mineral resource” and “inferred mineral resource” are defined in and required to be used by the Company by NI 43-101; however, these terms are not defined terms under SEC Industry Guide 7 and normally are not permitted to be used in reports and registration statements filed with the SEC. Investors are cautioned not to assume that any part or all of mineral deposits in these categories will ever be converted into reserves. “Inferred mineral resources” have a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence, and as to their economic and legal feas ibility. It cannot be assumed that all or any part of the measured mineral resources, indicated mineral resources, or inferred mineral resources will ever be upgraded to a higher category. Under Canadian rules, estimates of inferred mineral resources may not form the basis of feasibility, pre-feasibility studies or other economic studies, except in rare cases. Accordingly, information contained in this annual report and the documents incorporated by reference herein containing descriptions of the Company’s mineral deposits may not be comparable to similar information made public by United States companies subject to the reporting and disclosure requirements under the United States federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder. The Company will require exploration and mining permits and licenses. No guarantee can be given that the necessary exploration and mining permits and licenses will be issued to the Company or, if they are issued, that they will be renewed, or that the Company will be in a position to comply with all conditions that are imposed. Nearly all mining projects require government approval. There can be no certainty that these approvals will be granted to the Company in a timely manner, or at all. The Company may be subject to risks relating to the global economy. Recent market events and conditions, including disruptions in the international credit markets and other financial systems and the deterioration of global economic conditions, could impede the Company’s access to capital or increase the cost of capital. From 2007 to 2009, the United States credit markets began to experience serious disruption due to deterioration in residential property values, defaults and delinquencies in the residential mortgage market and a decline in the credit quality of mortgage-backed securities. These problems led to a slow-down in residential housing market transactions, declining housing prices, delinquencies in non-mortgage consumer credit and general decline in consumer confidence. These conditions worsened in 2008 and 2009 and have continued in 20 10, causing a loss of confidence in the broader United States and global credit and financial markets and resulting in the collapse of, and government intervention in, major banks, financial institutions and insurers and creating a climate of greater volatility, less liquidity, widening of credit spreads, a lack of price transparency, increased credit losses and tighter credit conditions. Notwithstanding various actions by the United States and foreign governments, concerns about the general condition of the capital markets, financial instruments, banks, investment banks, insurers and other financial institutions caused the broader credit markets to further deteriorate and stock markets to decline substantially. In addition, general economic indicators have deteriorated, including declining consumer sentiment, increased unemployment and declining economic growth and uncertainty about corporate earnings. These unprecedented disruptions in the current credit and financial markets have had a significant material adverse impact on a number of financial institutions and have limited access to capital and credit for many companies. These disruptions could, among other things, make it more difficult for the Company to obtain, or increase its cost of obtaining, capital and financing for its operations. Access to additional capital may not be available to the Company - 15 - on terms acceptable to it, or at all. Further, as a result of current global financial conditions, numerous financial institutions have gone into bankruptcy or have been rescued by government authorities. As such, the Company is subject to the risk of loss of its deposits with financial institutions that hold the Company’s cash. The Company's property interests in foreign countries are subject to risks from political and economic instability in those countries. Exploration in foreign jurisdictions exposes the Company to risks that may not otherwise be experienced if all operations were domestic. The risks include, but are not limited to: military repression, extreme fluctuations in currency exchange rates, labor instability or militancy, mineral title irregularities and high rates of inflation. In addition, changes in mining or investment policies or shifts in political attitude in foreign countries in which we operate may adversely affect our business. We may be affected in varying degrees by government regulation with respect to restrictions on production, price controls, export controls, income taxes, expropriation of property, maintenance of claims, environmental legislation, land use, land claims of local people, water use and mine safety. The effect of these factor s cannot be accurately predicted. Political risks may adversely affect the Company’s existing assets and operations. The Company does not maintain and does not intend to purchase political risk insurance. Real and perceived political risk in some countries may also affect the Company’s ability to finance exploration programs and attract joint venture partners, and future mine development opportunities. Our financial position and results are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency values. Business is transacted by the Company in a number of currencies. Fluctuations in exchange rates may have a significant effect on the cash flows of the Company. Future changes in exchange rates could materially affect the Company’s results in either a positive or negative direction. The Company's operations make it subject to foreign currency fluctuations and such fluctuation may adversely affect the Company’s financial position and results. Certain of the Company’s expenses are denominated in U.S. dollars. As such, the Company’s principal foreign exchange exposure is related to the conversion of the Canadian dollar into U.S. dollars. The Canadian dollar varies under market conditions. Continued fluctuation of the Canadian dollar against the U.S. dollar will continue to affect the Company’s operations and financial position. The Company’s foreign subsidiaries comprise a direct and integral extension of the Company’s operations. These subsidiaries are also entirely reliant upon the Company to provide financing in order for them to continue their activities. Consequently, the functional currency of these subsidiaries is considered by management to be the Canadian dollar and accordingly exchange gains and losses are included in net income. The Company does not engage in hedging activities. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects”. The Company’s operations are subject to environmental risks. All phases of the Company’s operations are subject to federal, state and local environmental regulation in the jurisdictions in which the Company operates. These regulations mandate, among other things, the maintenance of air and water quality standards and land reclamation. They also set forth limitations on the generation, transportation, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous waste. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner which will require stricter standards and enforcement, increased fines and penalties for non-compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of proposed projects and a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and their officers, directors and employees. The Company cannot be certain that future changes in environmental regulation, if any, will not adversely affect its operations. Environmental hazards may exist on the properties on which the Company holds and will hold interests which are unknown to the Company at present and which have been caused by previous or existing owners or operators of the properties. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and permitting requirements may result in enforcement actions thereunder, including orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities causing operations to cease or be curtailed, and may include corrective measures requiring capital expenditures, installation of additional equipment, or remedial actions. Parties engaged in mining operations or in the exploration or development of mineral properties may be required to compensate those suffering loss or damage by reason of the mining activities and may have civil or criminal fines or penalties imposed for violations of applicable laws or regulations. Production, if any, at its - 16 - mines will involve the use of hazardous materials. Should these materials leak or otherwise be discharged from their containment systems then the Company may become subject to liability for hazards that it may not be insured against or for clean-up work that may not be insured. The Company's plan of operation for its properties is subject to unexpected delays. The Company’s minerals business will be subject to the risk of unanticipated delays including permitting its contemplated projects. Such delays may be caused by fluctuations in commodity prices, mining risks, difficulty in arranging needed financing, unanticipated permitting requirements or legal obstruction in the permitting process by project opponents. In addition to adding to project capital costs (and possibly operating costs), such delays, if protracted, could result in a write-off of all or a portion of the carrying value of the delayed project. The Company's common shares may be subject to price and volume fluctuations. In recent years the securities markets in Canada have experienced a high level of price and volume volatility and the market price of securities of many companies, particularly junior mineral exploration companies, like the Company, have experienced wide fluctuations which have not necessarily been related to the operating performance, underlying asset values or prospects of such companies. In particular, the per share price of the Company’s common shares on the TSX Venture Exchange (the “TSX-V”) fluctuated from a high of $1.08 to a low of $0.75, and experienced a fluctuation from a high of US$1.07 to a low of US$0.71 on the NYSE Amex Equities (formerly the American Stock Exchange), during the 12-month period ending December 31, 2010. There can be no assurance that continual fluctuations in price will not occur. The Company does not insure against all risks. The Company maintains certain insurance, however, such insurance is subject to numerous exclusions and limitations. The Company maintains a Total Office Policy in Canadian dollars on its principal offices. Generally, the Total Office Policy provides All Risk Replacement Cost Coverage on office contents, up to $65,000, with a $1,000 deductible. In addition, the policy provides Commercial General Liability coverage of up to $5,000,000 for Third Party Bodily Injury or Property Damage, per occurrence and $500,000 for Tenants Legal Liability for any one leased premises, with a $1,000 deductible. The Company has an Executive and Organization Liability insurance policy for the benefit of directors and officers. The aggregate limit of liability is US$10 million. The policy is renewable on a yearly basis. The Company also maintains Executive and Organization Liability insurance policies expiring September 15, 2015, for the benefit of its previous directors. The aggregate limit of liability is US$5 million for the former directors of IMA Explorations Inc. and US$7 million for the previous directors of Kobex Resources Ltd. and International Barytex Resources Ltd. The policies were obtained as a condition of the Arrangements among the three companies. The Company’s insurance policies do not insure the Company against all the potential risks associated with a mining company’s operations. The Company may also be unable to maintain insurance to cover these risks at economically feasible premiums. Insurance coverage may not continue to be available or may not be adequate to cover any resulting liability. Moreover, insurance against risks such as environmental pollution or other hazards as a result of exploration and production is not generally available to the Company or to other companies in the mining industry on acceptable terms. The Company might also become subject to liability for pollution or other hazards which may not be insured against or which the Company may elect not to insure against because of premium costs or other reasons. Losses from these events may cause the Company to incur significant costs that could have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company is dependent on its key personnel. The Company is dependent on the services of Alfred Hills, the President and CEO and a director of the Company, as well as Mr. Roman Shklanka, the Chairman of the Company. The loss of Mr. Hills or Mr. Shklanka could have an adverse affect on the Company. All of the Company’s officers are employed by the Company. See “Item 6. - 17 - Directors, Senior Management and Employees - Directors and Senior Management - Conflicts of Interest”. The Company does not maintain "key-man" insurance in respect of any of its principals. The Company is dependent on certain third parties. The success of the Company’s operations will depend upon numerous factors, many of which are beyond the Company’s control, including: (i) the ability of the Company to acquire properties or projects of merit; (ii) the ability to enter into strategic alliances through a combination of one or more joint ventures, mergers or acquisition transactions; (iii) the ability to discover and produce minerals; (iv) the ability to attract and retain additional key personnel in investor relations, marketing, technical support, and finance; and (v) the ability and the operating resources to develop and maintain the properties held by the Company. These and other factors will require the use of outside suppliers as well as the talents and efforts of the Company. There can be no assurance of success with any or all of these factors on which the Company’s operations will depend. The Company’s officers and directors may have potential conflicts of interest. Several of the Company’s directors are also directors, officers or shareholders of other companies. Such associations may give rise to conflicts of interest from time to time. Such a conflict poses the risk that the Company may enter into a transaction on terms which could place the Company in a worse position than if no conflict existed. The directors of the Company are required by law to act honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interest of the Company and to disclose any interest which they may have in any project or opportunity of the Company. However, each director has a similar obligation to other companies for which such director serves as an officer or director. The Company has no specific internal policy governing conflicts of interest. See 8220;Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees - Directors and Senior Management - Conflicts of Interest”. Government regulation may adversely affect the Company’s business and planned operations. The Company’s current activities are subject to various governmental regulations in Canada. In Canada the Company’s exploration activities occur on Crown Land in Yukon. There are provincial and federal regulatory developments that could restrict the Company’s activities and significantly increase regulatory obligations and compliance costs with respect to the Company’s exploration activities. The Company’s exploration programs in British Columbia are subject to federal and provincial regulations regarding environmental considerations. All activities associated with the exploration for minerals are subject to existing laws and regulations relating to exploration procedures, safety precautions, employee health and safety, air quality standards, pollution of streams and fresh water sources, odor, noise, dust and other environmental protection controls adopted by federal, provincial and local governmental authorities as well as the rights of adjoining property owners. The Company may be required to prepare and present to federal, provincial or local authorities data pertaining to the effect or impact that its activities may have upon the environment. All requirements imposed by any such au thorities may be costly, time consuming and may delay commencement or continuation of the Company’s activities. Future legislation may significantly emphasize the protection of the environment, and, as a consequence, the activities of the Company may be more closely regulated to further the cause of environmental protection. Such legislation, as well as further interpretation of existing laws in Canada and British Columbia, may require substantial increases in equipment and operating costs to the Company and delays, interruptions, or a termination of its activities, the extent of which cannot be predicted. Environmental problems known to exist at this time in Canada may not be in compliance with regulations that may come into existence in the future. This may have a substantial impact upon the capital expenditures required of the Company in order to deal with such a problem and could substantially reduce earnings. At the present time, the Company’s mineral exploration activities in Yukon are in compliance with all known environmental requirements. - 18 - The Company competes with larger, better capitalized competitors in the mining industry. The mining industry is competitive in all of its phases. The Company faces strong competition from other mining companies in connection with the acquisition of properties producing, or capable of producing, base and precious metals. Many of these companies have greater financial resources, operational experience and technical capabilities than the Company. As a result of this competition, the Company may be unable to maintain or acquire attr active mining properties on terms it considers acceptable or at all. Consequently, the Company’s revenues, operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The Company does not intend to pay dividends. The Company has not paid out any cash dividends to date and has no plans to do so in the immediate future. As a result, an investor’s return on investment will be solely determined by his or her ability to sell Common Shares in the secondary market. We anticipate that we will raise additional capital through equity financing, which may cause substantial dilution to our existing shareholders. We may issue securities on less than favorable terms to raise sufficient capital to fund our business plan. Any transaction involving the issuance of equity securities or securities convertible into common shares would result in dilution, possibly substantial, to present and prospective holders of common shares. Broker-dealers may be discouraged from effecting transactions in the Company's common shares because they are considered a penny stock and are subject to the penny stock rules. The SEC has adopted rules that regulate broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in "penny stocks". Generally, penny stocks are equity securities with a price of less than US$5.00 (other than securities registered on certain national securities exchanges or quoted on the NASDAQ system). Since the Company’s shares are traded for less than US$5.00 per share, the shares are subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules. The Company’s shares will be subject to the penny stock rules until such time as (1) the issuer's net tangible assets exceed US$5,000,000 during the issuer's first three years of continuous operations or US$2,000,000 after the issuer's first three years of continuous operations; or (2) the issuer has had average revenue of at least US$6,000,000 for thre e years. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document prescribed by the SEC that provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer must obtain a written acknowledgement from the purchaser that the purchaser has received the disclosure document. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer's account. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from those rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the p urchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to the transaction. These requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for a stock that becomes subject to the penny stock rules. Such rules and regulations may make it difficult for holders to sell the common stock of the Company, and they may be forced to hold it indefinitely. You may be unable to enforce U.S. judgments against the Company or its officers and directors. It may be difficult to bring and enforce suits against the Company. The Company is incorporated in British Columbia, Canada. All, or a substantial portion, of the other directors’ assets are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for U.S. holders of the Company’s common shares to effect service of process on these persons within the United States or to enforce judgments obtained in the U.S. based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against the Company or their officers and directors. In addition, a shareholder should not assume that the courts of Canada (i) would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against the Company or their officers or directors predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. fed eral securities laws or other laws of the United States, or (ii) would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against - 19 - the Company or their officers or directors predicated upon the U.S. federal securities laws or other laws of the United States. However, U.S. laws would generally be enforced by a Canadian court provided that those laws are not contrary to Canadian public policy, are not foreign penal laws or laws that deal with taxation or the taking of property by a foreign government and provided that they are in compliance with applicable Canadian legislation regarding the limitation of actions. Also, a judgment obtained in a U.S. court would generally be recognized by a Canadian court except, for example: 1. where the U.S. court where the judgment was rendered had no jurisdiction according to applicable Canadian law; 2. the judgment was subject to ordinary remedy (appeal, judicial review and any other judicial proceeding which renders the judgment not final, conclusive or enforceable under the laws of the applicable state) or not final, conclusive or enforceable under the laws of the applicable state; 3. the judgment was obtained by fraud or in any manner contrary to natural justice or rendered in contravention of fundamental principles of procedure; 4. a dispute between the same parties, based on the same subject matter has given rise to a judgment rendered in a Canadian court or has been decided in a third country and the judgment meets the necessary conditions for recognition in a Canadian court; 5. the outcome of the judgment of the U.S. court was inconsistent with Canadian public policy; 6. the judgment enforces obligations arising from foreign penal laws or laws that deal with taxation or the taking of property by a foreign government; or 7. there has not been compliance with applicable Canadian law dealing with the limitation of actions. As a foreign private issuer, our shareholders may have less complete and timely data. The Company is a “foreign private issuer” as defined in Rule 3b-4 under the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “U.S. Exchange Act”). Equity securities of the Company are accordingly exempt from Sections 14(a), 14(b), 14(c), 14(f) and 16 of the U.S. Exchange Act pursuant to Rule 3a12-3 of the U.S. Exchange Act. Therefore, the Company is not required to file a Schedule 14A proxy statement in relation to the annual meeting of shareholders. The submission of proxy and annual meeting of shareholder information on Form 6-K may result in shareholders having less complete and timely information in connection with shareholder actions. The exemption from Section 16 rules regarding reports of beneficial ownership and purchases and sales of common shares by insiders and restrictions on insider tr ading in our securities may result in shareholders having less data and there being fewer restrictions on insiders’ activities in our securities. Increased costs and compliance risks as a result of being a public company. Legal, accounting and other expenses associated with public company reporting requirements have increased significantly in the past few years. The Company anticipates that general and administrative costs associated with regulatory compliance will continue to increase with ongoing compliance requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as any new rules implemented by the SEC, Canadian Securities Administrators, the NYSE Amex and the TSX in the future. These rules and regulations have significantly increased the Company’s legal and financial compliance costs and made some activities more time-consuming and costly. There can be no assurance that the Company will continue to effectively meet all of the requirements of these regulations, including Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 and National Instrument 52-109 of the Canadian Securities Administrators (“NI 52-109”). Any failure to effectively implement internal controls, or to resolve difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm the Company’s operating results, cause the Company to fail to meet reporting obligations or result in management being required to give a qualified assessment of the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting or the Company’s independent auditors providing an adverse opinion regarding management’s assessment. Any such result could cause investors to lose confidence in the Company’s reported financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of the Common Shares. These rules and regulations have made it more difficult and more expensive for it to obtain director and officer liability i nsurance, and the Company may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage in the future. As a result, it may be more difficult for the Company to attract and retain qualified - 20 - individuals to serve on its board of directors or as executive officers. If the Company fails to maintain the adequacy of its internal control over financial reporting, the Company’s ability to provide accurate financial statements and comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and/or NI 52-109 could be impaired, which could cause the Company’s stock price to decrease. The Company is likely a "passive foreign investment company" which will likely have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences for U.S. shareholders U.S. shareholders of our common shares should be aware that the Company believes that it qualified as a PFIC for the taxable year ended December 31, 2010, and based on current business plans and financial projections, the Company anticipates that it may qualify as a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) for the current taxable year and subsequent taxable years. If the Company is a PFIC for any year during a U.S. shareholder’s holding period, then such U.S. shareholder generally will be required to treat any gain realized upon a disposition of common shares, or any so-called “excess distribution” received on its common shares, as ordinary income, and to pay an interest charge on a portion of such gain or distributions, unless the shareholder makes a timely and effective "qualifi ed electing fund" (“QEF Election”) or a "mark-to-market" election with respect to the common shares. A U.S. shareholder who makes a QEF election generally must report on a current basis its share of the Company's net capital gain and ordinary earnings for any year in which the Company is a PFIC, whether or not the Company distributes any amounts to its shareholders. For each tax year that the Company qualifies as a PFIC, the Company intends to make available to U.S. Holders, upon written request, a "PFIC Annual Information Statement" as described in Treasury Regulation Section 1.1295-1(g) (or any successor Treasury Regulation), and for each year in which the Company is a PFIC, use commercially reasonable efforts to provide all additional information that such U.S. Holder is required to obtain in connection with maintaining such QEF Election with regard to the Company. The Company may elect to provide such information on its website (http://kobexminerals .com). A U.S. shareholder who makes the mark-to-market election generally must include as ordinary income each year the excess of the fair market value of the common shares over the taxpayer’s basis therein. This paragraph is qualified in its entirety by the discussion below under the heading “Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations.” Each U.S. shareholder should consult his or her own tax advisor regarding the U.S. federal, U.S. state and local, and foreign tax consequences of the PFIC rules and the acquisition, ownership, and disposition of our common shares. 