Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may adversely impact our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business Strategy We may not be able to execute our business strategy to transition to a leading IP infrastructure and managed services provider, which could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows. During 2010, we initiated a new business strategy to transition to a leading IP infrastructure and managed services provider. To implement this strategy, we plan to combine our existing business services with the integrated communications businesses of our recent acquisition of ITC^DeltaCom and our pending acquisition of One Communications. We plan to offer a comprehensive suite of business services under a new brand, EarthLink Business. There can be no assurance that our efforts will be successful. We may have difficulty managing and developing new products and services, entering into new markets or combining service offerings and sales forces, especially where we have no or limited direct prior experience or where competitors may have stronger market positions. We may not be able to achieve the name recognition or status under this new brand that we have anticipated. In order to be successful, we must also create economies of scale to allow us to increase revenues while incurring incremental costs that are proportionately lower than those applicable to the existing businesses. In addition, the capital expenditures required to support our new strategy may be greater than anticipated. Our revenues and the revenues of ITC^DeltaCom and One Communications have been declining and we expect the revenues from certain aspects of these businesses to continue to decline. Therefore, the inability to successfully implement our new business strategy to counteract these declining revenues could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may be unsuccessful in making and integrating acquisitions into our business, which could result in operating difficulties, losses and other adverse consequences. In December 2010, we completed our acquisition of ITC^DeltaCom and entered into definitive agreements to acquire One Communications and STS Telecom. Our ability to achieve the benefits of acquisitions depends in part on the integration and leveraging of technology, operations, sales and marketing channels and personnel. Integration and other risks associated with acquisitions can be more pronounced for larger and more complicated transactions or if multiple transactions are integrated simultaneously. The challenges and risks involved in the integration of acquired businesses and any future businesses that we may acquire include: •diversion of management's attention and resources that would otherwise be available for the current operation of our business; •failure to fully achieve expected synergies and costs savings; •higher integration costs than anticipated; •the impact on employee morale and the retention of employees, many of whom may have specialized knowledge about their business; •lost revenues or opportunities as a result of our current or potential customers or strategic partners deciding to delay or forego business; •difficulties combining product offerings and entering into new markets in which we are not experienced; 22 Table of Contents •the integration of departments, operating support systems, such as billing systems, and technologies, such as network equipment; •the need to implement and maintain uniform controls, procedures and policies throughout all of our acquired companies or the need to remediate significant control deficiencies that may exist at acquired companies; and •potential unknown liabilities. We may not realize anticipated synergies, cost savings, growth opportunities and operational efficiencies from our acquisitions, or the anticipated benefits may take longer or present greater cost to realize than expected. The occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. We expect to continue to evaluate and consider potential strategic transactions that we believe may complement our business. At any given time, we may be engaged in discussions or negotiations with respect to one or more of such transactions that may be material to our financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that any such discussions or negotiations will result in the consummation of any transaction, or that we will identify appropriate transactions on terms acceptable to us. Future acquisitions may result in significant costs and expenses and charges to earnings, including those related to severance pay, employee benefit costs, asset impairment charges, charges from the elimination of duplicative facilities and contracts, legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, and payments to executive officers and key employees under retention plans. Additionally, future acquisitions may result in the dilutive issuances of equity securities, use of our cash resources, incurrence of debt or contingent liabilities, amortization expense related to acquired definite-lived intangible assets or the potential impairment of amounts capitalized as intangible assets, including goodwill. Any of these items could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We also may experience risks relating to the challenges and costs of closing a transaction and the risk that an announced transaction may not close, including our pending acquisition of One Communications. Completion of certain acquisition transactions are conditioned upon, among other things, the receipt of approvals, including from the FCC and certain state public utilities commissions. Failure to complete a pending transaction would prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits. We would also remain liable for significant transaction costs, including legal and accounting fees, whether or not the transaction is completed. In addition, the current market price of our common stock may reflect a market assumption as to whether the transaction will occur. Consequently, the completion of, or a failure to complete, a transaction could result in a significant change in the market price of our common stock. The continuing effects of adverse economic conditions could harm our business. Unfavorable general economic conditions, including recession and disruptions to the credit and financial markets, could negatively affect our business. Our consumer access services are discretionary and dependent upon levels of consumer spending. In addition, our business customers are particularly exposed to a weak economy. These conditions could adversely affect the affordability of, and customer demand for, some of our products and services and could cause customers to delay or forgo purchases of our products and services. Also, our business customers may not be able to obtain adequate access to credit, which could affect their ability to make timely payments to us. One or more of these circumstances could cause our revenues to decline, churn to increase, allowance for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable to increase or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, our business is dependent on third-party vendors for services and network equipment integral to our business, some of which are experiencing financial distress. If these vendors encounter or continue to encounter financial difficulties, their ability to supply services and network equipment to us 23 Table of Contents may be curtailed. If such vendors were to fail, we may not be able to replace them without disruption to, or deterioration of, our service and we may incur higher costs. Acquirers of distressed suppliers may not continue to upgrade technology associated with the type of equipment we use in our network. If we were required to purchase another manufacturer's equipment, we could incur significant initial costs to integrate the equipment into our network and to train personnel to use the new equipment, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Any interruption in the services provided by our third-party vendors could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. If we do not continue to innovate and provide products and services that are useful to individual subscribers and business customers, we may not remain competitive, and our revenues and operating results could suffer. The market for Internet and telecommunications services is characterized by changing technology, changes in customer needs and frequent new service and product introductions, and we may be required to select one emerging technology over another. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to use leading technologies effectively, to continue to develop our technical expertise, to enhance our existing services and to develop new services that meet changing customer needs on a timely and cost-effective basis. We may not be able to adapt quickly enough to changing technology, customer requirements and industry standards. Such changes could include the increasing use of wireless forms of communication, such as handheld Internet-access devices and mobile phones, new competitors such as VoIP providers and the acceleration of the adoption of broadband due to government funding to deploy broadband to rural areas. In addition, the development and offering of new services in response to new technologies or consumer demands may require us to increase our capital expenditures significantly. Moreover, new technologies may be protected by patents or other intellectual property laws and therefore may be available only to our competitors and not to us. Any of these factors could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Our failure to implement cost reduction initiatives will adversely affect our results of operations. We have adopted an operating framework that includes a disciplined focus on operational efficiency. The success of our operating efficiencies and cost reductions is necessary to achieve the desired synergies we hope to achieve with the integration of our recent and potential future acquisitions. In addition, as part of this framework, during the past three years we have implemented significant cost reduction initiatives, including reducing our headcount, outsourcing certain functions, streamlining internal processes, renegotiating contracts with network service providers and consolidating or closing certain facilities. We plan to continue to implement cost reduction initiatives and to manage our business more efficiently. However, we believe that large-scale cost reduction opportunities that we have previously experienced in our legacy business will be more limited in the future and in some cases, we may incur upfront costs in connection with implementing certain initiatives. In addition, although we seek to align our cost structure with trends in revenue, we do not expect to be able to reduce our cost structure in our Consumer Services segment to the same extent as those declines in revenue and our cost reduction initiatives might not yield the anticipated benefits. Finally, we may not be able to implement the same discipline for operations related to our recent and potential future acquisitions. If we do not recognize the anticipated benefits of our cost reduction initiatives, or do so in a timely manner, our profitability and cash flows will decline. We will require a significant amount of cash, which may not be available to us, to service our debt and fund our other liquidity needs. On November 15, 2011, holders of our $255.8 million outstanding principal amount of 3.25% Convertible Senior Notes Due 2026 (the "EarthLink Notes") have the right under the governing indenture to require us to repurchase the EarthLink Notes. Our ability to repurchase these EarthLink Notes as well as to make payments on, or to refinance or repay, our debt, fund planned capital expenditures, pay 24 Table of Contents quarterly cash dividends and continue to pursue our new business strategy, which may involve future acquisitions, will depend largely upon our future operating performance and our ability to access the capital markets. Our future operating performance is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors, as well as other factors that are beyond our control. Our business may not generate enough cash flow, or future borrowings may not be available to us, in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt or fund our other liquidity needs. If we are forced to pursue any of the above options under distressed conditions, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, adverse conditions in the capital markets, which in recent years have significantly reduced the availability of corporate credit, could continue to affect the global financial system and equity markets, which would limit our access to the debt and equity markets at a time when we would like, or need, to access such markets. This limitation could have an adverse effect on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. Risks Related to Our Consumer Services Segment We face significant competition in the Internet industry that could reduce our profitability. We operate in the Internet access services market, which is extremely competitive. We compete directly or indirectly with established online services companies, such as AOL and the Microsoft Network; national communications companies and local exchange carriers, such as AT&T, Qwest and Verizon; cable companies providing broadband access, including Charter Communications, Inc., Comcast, Cox Communications, Inc. and Time Warner Cable; local and regional ISPs; free or value-priced ISPs, such as United Online, Inc. which provides service under the brands Juno and NetZero; wireless Internet service providers; content companies and email providers, such as Google and Yahoo!; and satellite and fixed wireless service providers. Competitors for our consumer VoIP services include established telecommunications and cable companies; ISPs; leading Internet companies; and companies that offer VoIP services as their primary business, such as Vonage. Competitors for our advertising services include major ISPs, content providers, large web publishers, web search engine and portal companies, Internet advertising providers, content aggregation companies, social-networking web sites, and various other companies that facilitate Internet advertising. Competition in the market for access services is likely to continue increasing, and competition could cause us to decrease the pricing of our services, increase churn of our existing customers, increase operating costs or decrease the number of subscribers we are able to add. We believe the primary competitive factors in the Internet access service industry are price, speed, features, coverage area and quality of service. While we believe our Internet access services compete favorably based on some of these factors when compared to some Internet access providers, we are at a competitive disadvantage relative to some or all of these factors with respect to other of our competitors. Current and potential competitors include many large companies that have substantially greater market presence and greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have. Our dial-up Internet access services do not compete favorably with broadband services with respect to speed, and dial-up Internet access services no longer have a significant, if any, price advantage over certain broadband services. Most of the largest providers of broadband services, such as cable and telecommunications companies, control their own networks and offer a wider variety of services than we offer, including voice, data and video services. Their ability to bundle services and to offer broadband services at prices below the price that we can profitably offer comparable services puts us at a competitive disadvantage. In addition, our only significant access to offer broadband services over cable is through our agreement with Time Warner. We experience pricing pressures for certain of our consumer access services, particularly our consumer broadband services, due to competition, volume-based pricing and other factors. Some providers, including AT&T, have reduced and may continue to reduce the retail price of their Internet 25 Table of Contents access services to maintain or increase their market share, which could cause us to reduce, or prevent us from raising, our prices. We may encounter further market pressures to: migrate existing customers to lower-priced service offerings; restructure service offerings to offer more value; reduce prices; and respond to particular short-term, market-specific situations, such as special introductory pricing or new product or service offerings. Any of the above could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Our consumer business is dependent on the availability of third-party network service providers. Our consumer business depends on the capacity, affordability, reliability and security of third-party network service providers. Only a small number of providers offer the network services we require, and the majority of our network services are currently purchased from a limited number of network service providers. Our principal provider for narrowband services is Level 3. We also purchase narrowband services from certain regional and local providers. Our largest providers of broadband connectivity are AT&T, Bright House Networks, Comcast, Covad, Qwest, Time Warner Cable and Verizon. Network service providers have merged and may continue to merge, which would reduce the number of suppliers from which we could purchase network services. We cannot be certain of renewal or non-termination of our contracts or that legislative or regulatory factors will not affect our contracts. Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to renew or extend contracts with our current network providers on acceptable terms, renew or extend current contracts with our network providers at all, acquire similar network capacity from other network providers, or otherwise maintain or extend our footprint. Additionally, each of our network providers sells network access to some of our competitors and could choose to grant those competitors preferential network access or pricing. Many of our network providers compete with us in the market to provide consumer Internet access. Such events may cause us to incur additional costs, pay increased rates for wholesale access services, increase the retail prices of our service offerings and/or discontinue providing retail access services, any of which could adversely affect our ability to compete in the market for retail access services. The continued decline of our consumer access subscribers, combined with the change in mix of our consumer access base from narrowband to broadband, will adversely affect our results of operations. Our consumer access revenues consist primarily of narrowband access revenues and broadband access revenues. Our narrowband subscriber base and revenues have been declining and are expected to continue to decline due to continued maturation of the market for narrowband access, increased availability and reduced pricing of broadband access services and an increase in advanced applications such as music downloads, videos, online gaming and social networking which require greater bandwidth for optimal performance. Our broadband subscriber base and revenues have been declining due to increased competition among broadband providers. We expect our consumer access subscriber base and revenues to continue to decline, which will adversely affect our profitability and results of operations. Our strategy for consumer access subscribers has been to reduce our sales and marketing efforts and focus instead on retaining customers and adding customers that are more likely to produce an acceptable rate of return. If we do not maintain our relationships with current customers or acquire new customers, our revenues will decline and our profitability will be adversely affected. Changes in the mix of our consumer access subscriber base, from narrowband access to broadband access, have also negatively affected our consumer access profitability. Our consumer broadband access services have lower gross margins due to the higher costs associated with delivering broadband services. Our ability to provide these services profitably is dependent upon cost-effectively purchasing wholesale broadband access and managing the costs associated with delivering broadband services. While we continuously evaluate cost reduction opportunities associated with the delivery of broadband access services, our overall profitability will be adversely affected if we are unable to continue to manage and reduce costs associated with the delivery of broadband services. 26 Table of Contents Our commercial and alliance arrangements may not be renewed or may not generate expected benefits, which could adversely affect our results of operations. A significant number of our new consumer subscribers have been generated through strategic alliances, including through our marketing alliance with Time Warner Cable and Bright House Networks. Generally, our strategic alliances and marketing relationships are not exclusive and may have a short term. In addition, as our agreements expire or otherwise terminate we may be unable to renew or replace these agreements on comparable terms, or at all. Our inability to maintain our marketing relationships or establish new marketing relationships could result in delays and increased costs in adding paying subscribers and adversely affect our ability to add new customers, which could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on us. The number of customers we are able to add through these marketing relationships is dependent on the marketing efforts of our partners, and there is no commitment for these partners to provide us with new customers. A significant decrease in the number of gross subscriber additions generated through these relationships could adversely affect the size of our consumer customer base and revenues. Privacy concerns relating to our business could damage our reputation and deter current and potential users from using our services. Concerns about our practices with regard to the collection, use, disclosure or security of personal information or other privacy-related matters, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation and operating results. We strive to comply with all applicable data protection laws and regulations, as well as our own posted privacy policies. However, any failure or perceived failure to comply with these laws, regulations or policies may result in proceedings or actions against us by government entities or others, which could potentially have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, as our services are web-based, we store a substantial amount of data on our servers for customers (including personal information). Any systems failure or compromise of our security that results in the release of our users' data could increase subscriber churn as well as limit our ability to attract new customers by damaging our reputation and brand. We may also need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches. Changes in technology in the Internet access industry could cause a decline in our business. Our dial-up Internet access services rely on their compatibility with other third-party systems and products, including operating systems. Incompatibility with third-party systems and products could adversely affect our ability to deliver our services or a user's ability to access our services. Our dial-up services are dependent on dial-up modems and an increasing number of computer manufacturers do not pre-load their new computers with dial-up modems, requiring the user to separately acquire a modem to access our services. As the dial-up Internet access market declines and new technologies emerge, we may not be able to continue to effectively distribute and deliver our dial-up services. The DSL portion of our broadband access business has also declined over the past several years, and we expect a continued decline in this business as a result of the advantages of the high-speed DOCSIS 3.0 technology offered by many cable broadband providers. This decline may adversely affect our broadband access business as our only other significant means of offering broadband services over cable is through our agreement with Time Warner Cable. In addition, advanced fiber-based technologies being utilized by AT&T and Verizon may also adversely affect both our dial-up and broadband access businesses. 27 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business Services Segment We face significant competition in the communications industry that could reduce our profitability. Integrated Communications. The communications industry is highly competitive, and we expect this competition to intensify. These markets are rapidly changing due to industry consolidation, an evolving regulatory environment and the emergence of new technologies. We compete directly or indirectly with incumbent local exchange carriers, such as AT&T, Qwest, Windstream and Verizon; other competitive telecommunications companies, such as Covad, Level 3, PAETEC and XO; interexchange carriers, such as Global Crossing and Sprint Nextel; wireless and satellite service providers; cable service providers, such as Charter Communications, Inc., Comcast, Cox Communications, Inc. and Time Warner Cable; and stand-alone VoIP providers. Competition could adversely impact us in several ways, including (i) the loss of customers and resulting revenue, (ii) the possibility of customers reducing their usage of our services or shifting to less profitable services, (iii) reduced traffic on our networks, (iv) our need to expend substantial time or money on new capital improvement projects, (v) our need to lower prices or increase marketing expenses to remain competitive and (vi) our inability to diversify by successfully offering new products or services. We believe the primary competitive factors in the communications industry include price, availability, reliability of service, network security, variety of service offerings, quality of service and reputation of the service provider. While we believe our business services compete favorably based on some of these factors, we are at a competitive disadvantage relative to some or all of these factors with respect to some of our competitors. Many of our current and potential competitors have greater market presence, engineering, technical and marketing capabilities and financial, personnel and other resources substantially greater than ours; own larger and more diverse networks; are subject to less regulation; or have substantially stronger brand names. In addition, industry consolidation has resulted in larger competitors that have greater economies of scale. Consequently, these competitors may be better equipped to charge lower prices for their products and services, to provide more attractive offerings, to develop and expand their communications and network infrastructures more quickly, to adapt more swiftly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, to increase prices that we pay for wholesale inputs to our services and to devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products and services. We expect to continue to face significant pricing and product competition from AT&T and other incumbents that are or become the dominant providers of telecommunications services in our markets. We may be required to reduce further some or all of the prices we charge for our retail local, long distance and data services as a result of the mergers of BellSouth, SBC and AT&T and of MCI and Verizon Communications which have increased substantially their respective market power; the increase of cable companies, wireless carriers and providers of alternative forms of communication that rely on VoIP or similar applications; recent regulatory decisions that have decreased regulatory oversight of incumbent local telephone companies; and new broadband providers with cost structures lower than ours due to governmental subsidies. As a result, we may be required to reduce further some or all of the prices we charge for our retail local, long distance and data services which could adversely affect our revenues, cash flows and results of operations. Web Hosting. The web hosting market is highly fragmented, has low barriers to entry and is characterized by considerable competition on price and features. We compete directly or indirectly with a number of companies, such as GoDaddy.com, Rackspace Hosting, Inc., Web.com and Yahoo!. Some of these companies have substantially greater market presence and greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have. Competition could cause us to decrease the pricing of our services, increase churn of our existing customers, increase operating costs or decrease the number of subscribers we are able to add, which would result in lower revenues and profits. 28 Table of Contents Decisions by the Federal Communications Commission relieving incumbent carriers of certain regulatory requirements, and possible further deregulation in the future, may restrict our ability to provide services and may increase the costs we incur to provide these services. We rely in significant part on purchasing wholesale services and leasing network facilities from AT&T and other incumbent carriers. Over the past several years, the FCC has reduced or eliminated a number of regulations governing the incumbent carriers' offerings, including removal of local switching and other network elements from the list of elements that the incumbent carriers must provide on an unbundled basis at TELRIC cost-based rates, as well as the grant of broad pricing flexibility to incumbents for their special access services in many areas. If the incumbent carriers do not continue to permit us to purchase these services from them under commercial arrangements at reasonable rates, our business could be adversely affected and our cost of providing local service could increase. This can have a significant adverse impact on our operating results and cash flows. If the FCC, Congress, state legislatures or state regulatory agencies were to adopt measures further reducing the local competition-related obligations of the incumbents or allowing those carriers to increase further the rates we must pay, we could experience additional increases in operating costs that would negatively affect our operating results and cash flows. Our wholesale services, including our broadband transport services, will be adversely affected by pricing pressure, network overcapacity, service cancellations and other factors. ITC^DeltaCom experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, adverse trends related to wholesale service offerings, including our broadband transport services and local interconnection business, which have resulted primarily from a reduction in rates charged to our customers due to overcapacity in the broadband services business and from service cancellations by some customers. Pending or contemplated consolidations in our industry also may continue to affect adversely our wholesale services business by improving the resources of the consolidating companies and reducing their demand for our services as those companies upgrade their own networks and consolidate their voice and data traffic on those networks. We expect that these factors will result in continued declines in revenues and cash flows from our wholesale service offerings. Such declines will have a disproportionately adverse effect on our operating results because of the higher gross margins associated with our wholesale services. Our operating performance will suffer if we are not offered competitive rates for the access services we need to provide our long distance services. We depend on other communications companies to originate and terminate a significant portion of the long distance traffic initiated by our customers. Our operating performance will suffer if we are not offered these access services at rates that are substantially equivalent to the costs of, and rates charged to, our competitors and that permit profitable pricing of our long distance services. The charges for access services historically have made up a significant percentage of our overall cost of providing long distance service. Some of our Internet-based competitors generally have been exempt from these and other regulatory charges, which could give them a significant cost advantage over us in this area. The FCC currently is considering what charges, if any, should be assessed on long distance and other interconnected voice services provided over the Internet. We may experience reductions in switched access and reciprocal compensation revenue. Over the past several years, ITC^DeltaCom experienced a decline in its revenues for switched access and reciprocal compensation. These switched access and reciprocal compensation revenues may continue to decline as a result of lower volume of traditional long distance voice minutes and FCC and state regulations compelling a reduction of switched access and reciprocal compensation rates. The FCC has been considering proposals for an integrated intercarrier compensation regime under which all traffic exchanged between carriers would be subject to a unified rate. Such changes could materially reduce our switched access revenue from other carriers. We cannot predict the outcome of pending FCC rule makings 29 Table of Contents related to intercarrier compensation. In addition, some states have adopted, and other states are considering, rules that lower or cap the switched access rates of competitive carriers. Switched access and reciprocal compensation together have been declining over time. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compensate for the reduction in intercarrier compensation revenue with other revenue sources or increased volume. Our inability to maintain our network infrastructure, portions of which we do not own, could adversely affect our operating results. We have effectively extended our network by entering into agreements with public utility companies to sell long-haul private line services on the fiber optic networks owned by these companies. Any cancellation or non-renewal of any of these agreements, any adverse legal ruling with respect to our rights under any of these agreements, or any future failure by us to acquire and maintain similar network agreements in these or other markets as necessary could materially adversely affect our operations. In addition, some of our agreements with the public utility companies are non-exclusive, and our business would suffer from any reduction in the amount of capacity they make available to us. If we are unable to interconnect with AT&T, Verizon and other incumbent carriers on acceptable terms, our ability to offer competitively priced local telephone services will be adversely affected. To provide local telephone services, we must interconnect with and resell the services of the incumbent carriers to supplement our own network facilities, pursuant to interconnection agreements between us and the incumbent carriers. As the original term of each of our interconnection agreements expires, it typically will be renewed on a month-to-month basis until it is replaced by a successor agreement. Further, federal regulators have adopted substantial modifications to the requirements that obligate AT&T, Verizon and other former monopoly local telephone companies to provide to us at cost-based rates the elements of their telephone networks that enable us to offer many of our services at competitive rates. Moreover, in areas outside of the territories of former Regional Bell Operating Companies in which we do business, such as the territories of CenturyLink, Frontier Communications, Fairpoint Communications, and Windstream, those incumbents carriers are subject to less wholesale regulation than are the RBOCs and tend to have less favorable interconnection options available to competitive carriers. If we are unable to enter into or maintain favorable interconnection agreements in our markets, our ability to provide local services on a competitive and profitable basis may be adversely affected. Any successful effort by the incumbent carriers to deny or substantially limit our access to their network elements or wholesale services also would harm our ability to provide local telephone services. We may not be able to compete effectively if we are unable to install additional network equipment or convert our network to more advanced technology. We may find it necessary to install additional network equipment and/or to convert our existing network to a network using more advanced technology. We may not have or be able to raise the significant capital that a conversion may require, or be able to complete the installation of additional network equipment and the conversion to more advanced technology in a timely manner, at a commercially reasonable cost or at all. We also may face technological problems that cannot be resolved. If we are unable to successfully install or operate new network equipment or to convert our network to a network using more advanced technology, we may not be able to compete effectively, and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Failure to obtain and maintain necessary permits and rights-of-way could interfere with our network infrastructure and operations. To obtain and maintain rights-of-way and similar franchises and licenses needed to install, operate and maintain fiber optic cable and our other network elements, we must negotiate and manage agreements 30 Table of Contents with state highway authorities, local governments, transit authorities, local telephone companies and other utilities, railroads, long distance carriers and other parties. For example, if we lose access to a right-of-way, we may need to spend significant amounts to remove and relocate our facilities. General Risks We may be unable to retain sufficient qualified personnel, and the loss of any of our key executive officers could adversely affect us. Our business depends on the continued services of our senior management and other key personnel and our ability to retain and motivate them effectively. Competition for qualified personnel, including management, technical and sales personnel, may increase in a recovering economic environment. Acquisitions and workforce reductions may affect our ability to retain or replace key personnel, harm employee morale and productivity or disrupt our business. Key employees may depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with us following a merger transaction. In addition, reductions in workforce have resulted in less redundancy of mission critical roles. Effective succession planning is important to our long-term success. Failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and transitions involving key employees could hinder execution of our business strategies. Finally, the loss of any of our key executives could impair our ability to implement our acquisition integration plans, execute our business strategy or otherwise have a material adverse effect on us. Interruption or failure of our network and information systems and other technologies could impair our ability to provide our services, which could damage our reputation and harm our operating results. Our network, network operations centers, central offices, corporate headquarters and those of our third party service providers are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, hurricanes and other natural disasters, terrorist attacks, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, break ins, human error, computer denial of service attacks, computer hackings, computer viruses, worms or other attempts to harm our systems, and similar events. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning may not be adequate. Further, any security breaches, such as misappropriation, misuse, leakage, falsification or accidental release or loss of information maintained in our information technology systems and networks, including customer, personnel and vendor data, could damage our reputation and require us to expend significant capital and other resources to remedy any such security breach. We may experience service interruptions or system failures in the future. In addition, as we consider potential outsource or network consolidation opportunities, we may experience service interruptions despite our efforts to minimize the impact to customers. Any service interruption adversely affects our ability to operate our business and could result in an immediate loss of revenues. If we experience frequent or persistent system or network failures, our reputation and brand could be permanently harmed. We may make significant capital expenditures to increase the reliability of our systems, but these capital expenditures may not achieve the results we expect. The occurrence of any such network, email or information system-related events or security breaches could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 31 Table of Contents Our ability to provide communications services also could be materially adversely affected by a cable cut, switch failure or other equipment failure along our fiber optic network or along any other fiber optic network on which we lease transmission capacity. A significant portion of our fiber optic network is not protected by electronic redundancy or geographical diverse routing. Lack of these safeguards could result in our inability to reroute traffic to another fiber in the same fiber sheath in the event of a partial fiber cut or electronics failure or to an entirely different fiber optic route, assuming capacity is available, if there occurs a total cable cut or if we fail to maintain our rights-of-way on some routes. In addition, our consumer VoIP services, including our E911 service, depend on the proper functioning of facilities and equipment owned and operated by third parties and is, therefore, beyond our control. If our third party service providers fail to maintain these facilities properly, or fail to respond quickly to problems, our customers may experience service interruptions. In addition, our E911 emergency service for our VoIP services is different in significant respects from the emergency calling services offered by traditional wireline telephone companies. Those differences may cause significant delays, or even failures, in callers' receipt of the emergency assistance they need. VoIP providers are not currently protected by legislation, so any resulting liability could be substantial. If interruptions or delays adversely affect the perceived reliability of our service, we may have difficulty attracting new customers and our brand and reputation may be negatively impacted. Any of these factors could cause us to lose revenues, incur greater expenses or cause our reputation or financial results to suffer. Our business depends on effective business support systems and processes. Our business relies on our data, billing and other operational and financial reporting and control systems. To effectively manage our technical support infrastructure, especially as we make acquisitions, we will need to continue to maintain our data, billing, and other operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, which can be costly. We have experienced system failures from time to time, and any interruption in the availability of our business support systems, in particular our billing system, could result in an immediate, and possibly substantial, loss of revenues. Frequent or persistent system failures could cause customers to believe our systems are unreliable, leading them to switch to our competitors and could permanently harm our reputation. Our Business Services segment also depends on operations support systems and other carriers to order and receive network elements and wholesale services from the incumbent carriers. These systems are necessary for carriers like us to provide local service to customers on a timely and competitive basis. FCC rules, together with rules adopted by state public utility commissions, may not be implemented in a manner that will permit us to order, receive, provision and maintain network elements and other facilities in the manner necessary for us to provide many of our services. Government regulations could adversely affect our business or force us to change our business practices. Our services are subject to varying degrees of federal, state and local regulation and, in light of our recent and pending acquisitions and the growth of our Business Services segment, will be more affected by regulation than in the past. Federal, state and local regulations governing our services are the subject of ongoing judicial proceedings, rulemakings and legislative initiatives, that could change the manner in which our industry operates and affect our business. Business Services Segment Regulation Through our wholly-owned subsidiaries, we hold numerous federal and state regulatory authorizations. The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) exercises jurisdiction over telecommunications common carriers to the extent that they provide, originate or terminate interstate or international communications. The FCC also establishes rules and has other authority over some issues related to local telephone competition. State regulatory commissions retain jurisdiction over 32 Table of Contents telecommunications carriers to the extent that they provide, originate or terminate intrastate communications. State commissions also have authority to review and approve interconnection agreements between incumbent telephone carriers and competitive carriers such as us, and to conduct arbitration of disputes arising in the negotiation of such agreements. Local governments may require us to obtain licenses, permits or franchises to use the public rights-of-way necessary to install and operate our network. The regulatory environment relating to our Business Services segment continues to evolve. Bills intended to amend the Communications Act of 1934, as amended by the Telecommunications Act of 1996 ("Communications Act") are introduced in Congress from time to time and their effect on us and the communications industry cannot always be predicted. Proposed legislation, if enacted, could have a significant effect on our business, particularly if the legislation impairs our ability to interconnect with incumbent carrier networks, lease portions of other carriers' networks or resell their services at reasonable prices, or lease elements of networks of the ILECs under acceptable rates, terms and conditions. We cannot predict the outcome of any ongoing legislative initiatives or administrative or judicial proceedings or their potential impact upon the communications and information technology industries generally or upon us specifically. Failure to make proper payments for federal Universal Service Fund assessments, FCC regulatory fees or other amounts mandated by federal and state regulations; failure to maintain proper state tariffs and certifications; failure to comply with federal, state or local laws and regulations; failure to obtain and maintain required licenses, franchises and permits; imposition of burdensome license, franchise or permit requirements for us to operate in public rights-of-way; and imposition of new burdensome or adverse regulatory requirements could limit the types of services we provide or the terms on which we provide these services. Consumer Services Segment Regulation Narrowband Internet access. Currently, narrowband Internet access is classified as an "information service" and is not subject to traditional telecommunications services regulation, such as licensing or pricing regulation. Any change to these rules that would apply per-minute carrier access charges to dial-up Internet access traffic could significantly impact our costs for this service. While Internet traffic is not subject to the FCC's carrier access charge regime, dial-up ISP bound traffic is regulated by the FCC. The FCC has established a uniform, nationwide rate for ISP-bound traffic, but these rules have been criticized by the courts and further judicial scrutiny is expected. Changes to the rules governing dial-up ISP bound traffic could impact our cost of providing this service. Internet taxation. The Internet Tax Non-Discrimination Act, which is in effect through November 2014, places a moratorium on taxes on Internet access and multiple, discriminatory taxes on electronic commerce. Certain states have enacted various taxes on Internet access and electronic commerce, and selected states' taxes are being contested on a variety of bases. If these state tax laws are not successfully contested, or if future state and federal laws imposing taxes or other regulations on Internet access and electronic commerce are adopted, our cost of providing Internet access services could be increased and our business could be adversely affected. Universal Service. While current policy exempts broadband access services from the Universal Service Fund ("USF"), the Congress and FCC may consider expanding the USF to include broadband Internet access services. This change could allow broadband service providers to receive a subsidy for deploying broadband in rural and underserved areas, but it will most likely require broadband service providers to contribute to the fund as well. If broadband Internet access providers become subject to USF contribution obligations, they would likely impose a USF surcharge on end users. Such a surcharge will raise the effective cost of our broadband services to our customers, and could adversely affect customer satisfaction or our revenues and profitability. 33 Table of Contents VoIP regulation. The current regulatory environment for VoIP services remains unclear, as the decision whether VoIP is an "information service" or "telecommunications service" is still pending. Classifying VoIP as a telecommunications service could require us to obtain a telecommunications license, comply with numerous legacy telephone regulations, and possibly subject the VoIP traffic to inter-carrier access charges, which could result in increased costs. General Regulation Consumer protection. Federal and state governments have adopted consumer protection laws and undertaken enforcement actions to address advertising and user privacy. Our services and business practices, or changes to our services and business practices could subject us to investigation or enforcement actions if we fail to adequately comply with applicable consumer protection laws. Existing and future federal and state laws and regulations also may affect the manner in which we are required to protect confidential customer data and other information, which could increase the cost of our operations and our potential liability if the security of our confidential customer data is breached. Broadband Internet access. Currently, broadband Internet access is classified as an "information service" and, as a result, cable companies and telephone companies that offer a broadband Internet access information service are not required by the FCC to offer unaffiliated ISPs stand-alone broadband transmission. Accordingly, if our contracts with cable companies and telephone companies were to expire and not be replaced, our broadband Internet access customer base and revenues would be adversely affected. Forbearance. If the FCC were to forbear from enforcing regulations that have been established to enable competing broadband Internet access and VoIP, our consumer services business could be adversely affected. In addition, with respect to our business services, regulatory authorities generally have decreased their oversight of incumbent carriers and from time to time are asked to forbear from applying a range of regulations to incumbent carriers, which may increase the competitive benefits these companies experience from their longstanding customer relationships and greater financial and technical resources, and may increase their ability to reduce prices for local and other network services by offsetting those reductions with revenue or profits generated by unrelated businesses, products or services. Other laws and regulations. Our business also is subject to a variety of other U.S. laws and regulations from various entities, including the Federal Trade Commission, the Environmental Protection Agency, and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, as well as by state and local regulatory agencies, that could subject us to liabilities, claims or other remedies. Compliance with these laws and regulations is complex and may require significant costs. In addition, the regulatory framework relating to Internet and communications services is evolving and both the federal government and states from time to time pass legislation that impacts our business. It is likely that additional laws and regulations will be adopted that would affect our business. We cannot predict the impact future laws, regulatory changes or developments may have on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The enactment of any additional laws or regulations, increased enforcement activity of existing laws and regulations, or claims by individuals could significantly impact our costs or the manner in which we conduct business, all of which could adversely impact our results of operations and cause our business to suffer. For example, changes in policies or regulations mandating new environmental standards could increase our operating costs, such as utility costs at our switch sites, and changes in tax laws or the interpretation of existing tax laws by state and local authorities could increase our income, sales, property or other tax costs. In addition, our operations are subject to a variety of laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the cleanup of contamination and the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes. As an owner or operator of property, we could incur significant costs as a result of violations or liabilities under such laws and regulations, including fines, penalties, cleanup costs and third-party claims. 34 Table of Contents Our business may suffer if third parties used for customer service and technical support and certain billing services are unable to provide these services or terminate their relationships with us. Our business and financial results depend, in part, on the availability and quality of our customer service and technical support and certain billing services, including collection services. Our Consumer Services segment outsources a majority of our customer service and technical support functions and relies primarily on one customer service and technical support vendor. As a result, we maintain only a small number of internal customer service and technical support personnel. We are not currently equipped to provide the necessary range of service and support functions in the event that our service providers become unable or unwilling to offer these services to us. Our outsourced customer support providers utilize international locations to provide us with customer service and technical support services, and as a result, our customer support providers may become subject to financial, economic, environmental and political risks beyond our or the providers' control, which could jeopardize their ability to deliver customer service and technical support services. We also utilize third parties for certain billing and collection services and for our web hosting services. If one or more of our service providers does not provide us with quality services, or if our relationship with any of our third party vendors terminates and we are unable to provide those services internally or identify a replacement vendor in an orderly, cost-effective and timely manner, our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows could suffer. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property. We regard our EarthLink, EarthLink Business and PeoplePC trademarks as valuable assets to our business. In particular, we believe the strength of the EarthLink, EarthLink Business and PeoplePC brands among existing and potential customers is important to the success of our business. Additionally, our EarthLink, EarthLink Business and PeoplePC service marks, proprietary technologies, domain names and similar intellectual property are also important to the success of our business. We principally rely upon trademark law as well as contractual restrictions to establish and protect our technology and proprietary rights and information. We require employees and consultants and, when possible, suppliers and distributors to sign confidentiality agreements, and we generally control access to, and distribution of, our technologies, documentation and other proprietary information. The efforts we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our trademarks and similar proprietary rights. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use, our brand image may be harmed and our business may suffer. In addition, protecting our intellectual property and other proprietary rights is expensive and time consuming. Any increase in the unauthorized use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive to do business and consequently harm our operating results. We may be accused of infringing upon the intellectual property rights of third parties, which is costly to defend and could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future. From time to time, third parties have alleged that we infringe on their intellectual property rights. We may be unaware of filed patent applications and of issued patents that could be related to our products and services. Some of the largest communications providers, such as AT&T, Sprint and Verizon, have substantial patent holdings. These providers have successfully asserted their claims against some communications companies, and have filed pending lawsuits against various competitive carriers. We have been subject to, and expect to continue to be subject to, claims and legal proceedings regarding alleged infringement by us of the patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties. None of these claims has had an adverse effect on our ability to market and sell and support our services. Such claims, whether or not meritorious, are time-consuming and costly to resolve, and could require expensive changes in our methods of doing business, could require us to enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements, or could require us to cease conducting certain operations. Any of these events could result in increases in operating expenses or could limit or reduce the number of our service offerings. 35 Table of Contents If we, or other industry participants, are unable to successfully defend against legal actions, we could face substantial liabilities or suffer harm to our financial and operational prospects. We are currently a party to various legal actions, including consumer class action, patent litigation and legal proceedings regarding the use of rights-of-way for our network. Defending against these lawsuits may involve significant expense and diversion of management's attention and resources from other matters. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation, we may not prevail in these actions. In addition, our ongoing operations may subject us to litigation risks and costs in the future. Both the costs of defending lawsuits and any settlements or judgments against us could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We also expect to continue to be subject to the risks associated with the resolution of various third-party disputes, lawsuits, arbitrations and proceedings affecting our business, particularly our Business Services segment. The deregulation of the telecommunications industry, the implementation of the Telecommunications Act of 1996, the evolution of telecommunications infrastructure from time-division multiplexing to Internet Protocol, and the distress of many carriers in the telecommunications industry as a result of continued competitive factors and financial pressures have resulted in the involvement of numerous industry participants in disputes, lawsuits, proceedings and arbitrations before state and federal regulatory commissions, private arbitration organizations such as the American Arbitration Association, and courts over many issues that will be important to our financial and operational success. These issues include the interpretation and enforcement of existing interconnection agreements and tariffs, the terms of new interconnection agreements, operating performance obligations, intercarrier compensation, treatment of different categories of traffic (for example, traffic originated or terminated on wireless or VoIP), the jurisdiction of traffic for intercarrier compensation purposes, the wholesale services and facilities available to us, the prices we will pay for those services and facilities, and the regulatory treatment of new technologies and services. We may be required to recognize additional impairment charges on our goodwill and intangible assets, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. We have recorded goodwill and other intangible assets in connection with our acquisitions, including $188.9 million of goodwill resulting from our acquisition of ITC^DeltaCom. We perform an impairment test of our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets annually during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year or when events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not indicate that goodwill or any such assets might be impaired. We evaluate the recoverability of our definite-lived intangible assets for impairment when events occur or circumstances change that would indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or intangible assets may not be recoverable, include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, higher customer churn, and slower growth rates in our industry. We have experienced impairment charges in the past. As we continue to assess the ongoing expected cash flows and carrying amounts of our goodwill and other intangible assets, changes in economic conditions, changes to our business strategy, changes in operating performance or other indicators of impairment could cause us to realize a significant impairment charge, negatively impacting our results of operations and financial position. We may have to undertake further restructuring plans that would require additional charges, including incurring facility exit and restructuring charges. Over the past few years, we implemented a corporate restructuring plan under which we significantly reduced our workforce and closed or consolidated various facilities. Our continued focus on maintaining operational efficiency may result in additional restructuring activities or changes in estimates to amounts previously recorded. We may choose to divest certain business operations based on our management's assessment of their strategic value to our business, further consolidate or close certain facilities 36 Table of Contents or outsource certain functions, including network and data center consolidation. Decisions to eliminate or limit certain business operations in the future could involve the expenditure of capital, consumption of management resources, realization of losses, transition and wind-up expenses, further reduction in workforce, impairment of the value of purchased assets, facility consolidation and the elimination of revenues along with associated costs, any of which could cause our operating results to decline and may fail to yield the expected benefits. Engaging in further restructuring and integration activities could result in additional charges and costs, including facility exit and restructuring costs, and could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities and the use of our net operating losses and certain other tax attributes could be limited in the future. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $515.9 million of tax net operating losses for federal income tax purposes and approximately $776.6 million of tax net operating losses for state income tax purposes. The tax net operating losses for federal income tax purposes begin to expire in 2020 and the tax net operating losses for state income tax purposes began to expire in 2010. Additionally, we acquired companies with existing federal and state net operating losses. Our future income taxes could be adversely affected by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof. Our determination of our tax liability is always subject to review by applicable tax authorities. Any adverse outcome of such a review could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, the determination of our provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment, and there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. An "ownership change" that occurs during a "testing period" (as such terms are defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended) could place significant limitations, on an annual basis, on the use of such net operating losses to offset future taxable income we may generate. In general, future stock transactions and the timing of such transactions could cause an "ownership change" for income tax purposes. Such transactions may include our purchases under our share repurchase program, additional issuances of common stock by us (including but not limited to issuances upon future conversion of our outstanding convertible senior notes), and acquisitions or sales of shares by certain holders of our shares, including persons who have held, currently hold, or may accumulate in the future five percent or more of our outstanding stock. Many of these transactions are beyond our control. Calculations of an "ownership change" under Section 382 are complex and to some extent are dependent on information that is not publicly available. The risk of an "ownership change" occurring could increase if additional shares are repurchased, if additional persons acquire five percent or more of our outstanding common stock in the near future and/or current five percent stockholders increase their interest. Due to this risk, we monitor our purchases of additional shares of our common stock. Since an "ownership change" also could result from a change in control of our company, with subsequent annual limitations on the use of our net operating losses, this could discourage a change in control. We may reduce, or cease payment of, quarterly cash dividends. The payment of future quarterly dividends is discretionary and is subject to determination by our Board of Directors each quarter following its review of our financial condition, results of operations, cash requirements, investment opportunities and such other factors as are deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. Changes in our business needs, including funding for acquisitions and working capital, or a change in tax laws relating to dividends, among other factors, could cause our Board of Directors to decide to reduce, or cease the payment of, dividends in the future. In January 2011, we reduced our quarterly 37 Table of Contents dividend to $0.05 per share. There can be no assurance that we will not further decrease or discontinue quarterly cash dividends, and if we do, our stock price could be negatively impacted. Our stock price may be volatile. The trading price of our common stock may be subject to fluctuations in response to certain events and factors, such as our entry into business combinations or other major transactions; quarterly variations in results of operations; changes in financial estimates; unstable economic conditions; changes in recommendations or reduced coverage by securities analysts; the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us; and news reports relating to trends in the markets in which we operate or general economic conditions. In addition, the stock market in general and the market prices for Internet and communications companies have experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our stock, regardless of our operating performance. Additionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, many of whom have been granted stock incentive awards. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and limit our ability to react to changes in our industry. As of December 31, 2010, we had $255.8 million outstanding principal amount of EarthLink Notes. In addition, in connection with our acquisition of ITC^DeltaCom, we assumed $325.0 million outstanding principal amount of 10.5% senior secured notes due 2016 (the "ITC^DeltaCom Notes"). Our indebtedness could have important consequences to us. For example, it could: •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund our business activities; •limit our ability to secure additional financing, if necessary; •increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate. Holders of the EarthLink Notes have the right to require us to repurchase the EarthLink Notes on November 15, 2011, November 15, 2016 and November 15, 2021 or upon the occurrence of a fundamental change prior to maturity. In addition, under the terms of the indenture governing the EarthLink Notes, our payment of cash dividends requires an adjustment to the conversion rate for the EarthLink Notes, and as a result of the adjustment, the EarthLink Notes may be surrendered for conversion for a period of time between the declaration date and the record date, as defined in the indenture, for the consideration provided for in the indenture. In January 2010, $3.0 million of EarthLink Notes were surrendered for conversion. The number of holders who require us to repurchase the Notes could increase as we continue to declare dividends. Upon conversion of the EarthLink Notes, we are required to deliver cash equal to the lesser of the aggregate principal amount of the EarthLink Notes to be converted and the total conversion obligation. We may use cash, shares of common stock or a combination thereof, at our option, for the remainder, if any, of the conversion obligation. We may not have sufficient funds to make the required cash payment upon conversion or to purchase or repurchase the EarthLink Notes in cash at such time or the ability to arrange necessary financing on acceptable terms. In addition, the requirement to pay the fundamental change repurchase price, including the related make whole premium, may discourage a change in control of our company. In addition, the indenture that governs the ITC^DeltaCom Notes imposes operating and financial restrictions that limit our discretion on some business matters involving ITC^DeltaCom and its 38 Table of Contents subsidiaries. These restrictions include compliance with or maintenance of specified financial tests and ratios and will limit ITC^DeltaCom's ability to sell assets; incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; incur certain liens; make loans and investments; enter into agreements restricting subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends; consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of their assets; and enter into transactions with affiliates. We may incur indebtedness in addition to the foregoing indebtedness. Any additional indebtedness we may incur in the future may subject us to similar or even more restrictive conditions. Our ability to make payments on or to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our ability in the future to generate cash flows from operations, which is subject to all the risks of our business. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows from operations for us to repay our indebtedness when such indebtedness becomes due and to meet our other cash needs. Provisions of our second restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and other elements of our capital structure could limit our share price and delay a change of management. Our second restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and shareholder rights plan contain provisions that could make it more difficult or even prevent a third party from acquiring us without the approval of our incumbent Board of Directors. These provisions, among other things: •divide the Board of Directors into three classes, with members of each class to be elected in staggered three-year terms; •limit the right of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; and •authorize the Board of Directors to issue preferred stock in one or more series without any action on the part of stockholders. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and significantly impede the ability of the holders of our common stock to change management. In addition, we have adopted a rights plan, which has anti-takeover effects. The rights plan, if triggered, could cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire our common stock on terms not approved by the Board of Directors. These provisions and agreements that inhibit or discourage takeover attempts could reduce the market value of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 