RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Risks relating to our business include the factors set forth below. Because of the following factors, as well as other factors affecting our operating results and financial condition, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. We have been operating at a net loss for each of the past five fiscal years and have had negative operating cash flow in fiscal 2003 and 2006. We have been operating at a net loss for each of the past five fiscal years. Our net loss for the fiscal years ended April 30, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006 and 2007 was $99.1 million, $16.7 million, $60.4 million, $42.4 million and $35.0 million, respectively. We also had negative operating cash flow in fiscal 2003 and 2006 of $2.3 million and $7.1 million, respectively. Although we had a positive operating cash flow for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2007 of $10.4 million, we cannot assure you that we will be able to generate positive cash flow in the future. Due to insufficient cash generated from operations, we have funded our operations through the sale of equity and debt securities, borrowings, equipment lease financings, shareholder financings and other financing arrangements. While we have been implementing cost reduction programs since the end of the January 2002 quarter, including the move of our assembly and test facilities from Hong Kong to lower-cost facilities in Dongguan, China, we continue to have significant fixed expenses and are incurring other manufacturing, sales and marketing, product development and administrative expenses. We are also obligated to make significant interest payments on our 9.25% senior notes due 2011 of approximately $7.0 million on August 1 and February 1 of each year. In January 2006, we also obtained $10.0 million under our purchase money loan facility, which will be due on April 30, 2009. On May 1, 2006, we entered into an advance payment agreement with a customer to provide us with $6.0 million of financing in the form of advance payments for assembly and test services, subject to certain conditions. The advance was made to us on June 9, 2006. In September 2006, ASAT China obtained a revolving credit facility for $3.8 million with a term of one year. On October 8, 2006, ASAT China drew down $2.5 million (which amount was rolled over in September 2007 for another one year term), and on April 30, 2007, ASAT China drew down the remaining balance of this revolving credit facility, all of which remains outstanding as of the date of this Annual Report. In September 2007, ASAT China obtained a revolving credit facility of RMB150 million (approximately US$20 million) with a term of one year. This facility is secured by certain trade receivables of ASAT China. This facility has not been drawn down as of the date of this Annual Report. In the event that we continue to generate negative cash flow, we may be required to seek new or alternative financing to fund our operations in the future. Our ability to raise any future additional or alternative financing will be limited by our financial situation, including our high level of debt and negative net worth, and may be limited by market conditions, our controlling shareholders, who may oppose transactions that reduce their control or dilute their ownership positions, the covenants in our 9.25% senior notes due 2011, our purchase money loan agreement, our advance payment agreement and our revolving credit facility, any default or non-compliance with the covenants that govern any of our borrowings, as well as requirements to obtain approval of certain types of financings from our shareholders. For details of our borrowings, see “Item 3—Key Information—Risk Factors—We may not be able to finance future needs because of restrictions placed on us by the indenture governing our 9.25% senior notes due 2011 and the purchase money loan agreement.” We are also uncertain as to whether we can raise additional financing from our shareholders in the future. For these and other reasons outside our control, it may be difficult for us to raise additional capital if and when it is required or at all. If we are unable to raise future additional or alternate financing when needed, any of the following may occur: • our customer relationships and orders with our customers could deteriorate; • suppliers would be less willing to supply us or extend credit on acceptable terms, if at all; 5 Table of Contents • employee attrition could increase; and • lenders could be unwilling to provide or refinance our debt. If adequate capital is not available to us as required, or if it is not available on favorable terms, our business and financial condition would be adversely affected, which could negatively affect our ability to develop new technologies and products and services, increase production and compete effectively in our market, and we may not be able to meet our obligations as they become due. In addition, if adequate capital is not available to us, we will need to sell assets or seek to undertake a restructuring of our obligations with our creditors, and we cannot give assurances that we would be able to accomplish either of these measures on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. In any such case, we may not be able to continue as a going concern. We will require a significant amount of cash to fund operating and capital expenditures and to service our debt. Our ability to fund operating and capital expenditures and to service debt will depend significantly on our ability to generate cash from operations. For the fiscal year ended April 30, 2005, the earnings to fixed charges deficiency was $59.7 million, for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2006, the earnings to fixed charges deficiency was $43.1 million, and for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2007, the earnings to fixed charges deficiency was $33.8 million. For the purpose of this calculation, “earnings” consisted of loss before income taxes and fixed charges, and “fixed charges” consisted of interest expense, including amortization of debt discount and debt issuance costs, and the interest portion within rental expenses which is estimated as one-third of the rental expenses relating to operating leases. We will need to generate cash flow in excess of current levels to fund operating and capital expenditures and to service our debt, including our 9.25% senior notes due 2011, our purchase money loan facility and capital lease obligations. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to generate cash flow or obtain funds from other financing sources to fund our planned operations and capital expenditures or to service our debt. Our ability to generate cash from operations is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, industry, legal and other factors and conditions, many of which are outside our control. In particular, our operations are subject to cyclical downturns and price and demand volatility in the semiconductor industry. If we cannot generate sufficient cash to service our debt or obtain financing, we may have to, among other things, reduce capital expenditures, reduce research and development expenditures, sell assets, restructure our debt, or obtain alternate financing, which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. We might not be able to take these actions or they may not be successful. Our ability to take any of these steps may be subject to approval by creditors, including future creditors, our shareholders and the holders of our 9.25% senior notes due 2011. Our substantial indebtedness, related interest payments and required dividends could adversely affect our operations. We have a significant amount of indebtedness that will increase further if we make any drawdowns on our new $20 million credit facility or if we are able to secure new financing. Our related interest payments and semiannual dividend payments on our Series A Redeemable Convertible Preferred Shares, or Series A Preferred Shares, also impose significant financial burdens on us. If further new debt is added to our consolidated debt level, the related risks that we now face could intensify. Covenants in the agreements governing our existing debt, and debt we may incur in the future, may materially restrict our operations, including our ability to incur debt, pay dividends, make certain investments and payments, and encumber or dispose of assets. In addition, financial covenants contained in agreements relating to our existing and future debt could lead to a default in the event our results of operations do not meet our plans and we are unable to amend such financial covenants prior to default. A default under one debt instrument may also trigger cross-defaults under our other debt instruments. An event of default under any debt instrument, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us, our financial condition and our capital structure. 6 Table of Contents Our substantial indebtedness has important consequences to our ability to operate our company. For example, it could, and does: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our ability to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, research and development and other general corporate requirements; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service interest and principal payments on our debt; • limit our flexibility to react to changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage to any of our competitors that have less debt; and • limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds. We may not be able to finance future needs because of restrictions placed on us by the indenture governing our 9.25% senior notes due 2011 and the purchase money loan agreement. The indenture governing our 9.25% senior notes due 2011 contains, and agreements governing our future debt may contain, various covenants that limit our ability to, among other things: • pay dividends, redeem capital stock and make certain other restricted payments or investments, including loans, guarantees and advances; • incur additional indebtedness, including guarantees, or issue certain equity interests; • merge, consolidate or sell all or substantially all of our assets; • issue or sell capital stock of some of our subsidiaries; • sell or exchange assets or enter into new businesses; • create or permit restrictions on the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to us; • create liens on assets; and • enter into particular types of transactions with affiliates or related persons. On August 23, 2007, we obtained consent from holders of our 9.25% senior notes due 2011 to amend certain provisions of the indenture governing our 9.25% senior notes due 2011. As a result, we entered into a supplemental indenture on August 27, 2007, which is filed as an exhibit to this annual report. The purchase money loan agreement entered into in connection with our shareholder financing contains various restrictive covenants, including those described above, and additional restrictions on our ability to incur indebtedness. On August 23, 2007, we entered into a waiver and amendment agreement with the lenders under our purchase money loan facility, and amended certain provisions of the purchase money loan agreement including, without limitation, extending the payment dates for certain principal and interest payments. Such waiver and amendment agreement is filed as an exhibit to this annual report. For further details, see “Item 7—Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Related Party Transactions” and “Item 10—Additional Information—Material Contracts.” In addition, our advance payment agreement with one of our customers contains affirmative and negative covenants that restrict our ability to take specified actions. Our ability to comply with covenants contained in the indenture governing our 9.25% senior notes due 2011, our purchase money loan agreement and other agreements governing indebtedness to which we may become a party may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. We operate in an industry that requires large capital expenditures for productivity 7 Table of Contents improvements, and the indenture governing our 9.25% senior notes due 2011, the purchase money loan agreement and agreements governing other debt we may incur, may limit our ability to finance these capital expenditures. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in an acceleration of our indebtedness and cross-defaults under the agreements governing other indebtedness to which we may become a party. Any such acceleration or cross-default could require us to repay or repurchase debt, together with accrued interest, prior to the date it otherwise is due, which could adversely affect our financial condition. Even if we are able to comply with all applicable covenants, the restrictions on our ability to operate our business in our sole discretion could harm our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, mergers, acquisitions and other corporate opportunities that we believe would be beneficial to us. Our ability to obtain needed future financing may require alternative financing arrangements with our customers to fund capital expenditures. We are controlled by two principal groups of shareholders, and their interests may conflict with your interest. Several private equity funds separately managed by or affiliated with JPMP Master Fund Manager, L.P. (formerly Chase Capital Partners) and Olympus Capital Holdings Asia, respectively, referred to as the “investor group” in this Annual Report, collectively owned approximately 39.4% of the outstanding ordinary shares of ASAT Holdings as of April 30, 2007. The investor group has signed a co-investment agreement generally to vote in unison on certain matters. QPL International Holdings Limited (“QPL”), its subsidiaries and its controlling shareholder collectively owned approximately 42.5% of the ordinary shares of ASAT Holdings as of April 30, 2007. The investor group and QPL together control ASAT Holdings’ board of directors, the election and nomination of new directors, management and policies. In addition, our current Acting Chief Executive Officer is a member of our board of directors and is affiliated with QPL, and our current Chief Financial Officer is the brother of a member of our board of directors who is affiliated with the investor group. For further information, see “Item 7—Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Related Party Transactions.” QPL and the investor group are subject to a shareholders agreement and vote together on certain matters, including on the election of directors of ASAT Holdings. The investor group and QPL are not obligated to provide any financing under their current shareholders agreement. The investor group and QPL are not obligated to exercise their rights as shareholders in the interests of ASAT Holdings and may engage in activities that conflict with such interests. We have not established, and may be unable to establish, any procedures for resolving actual or perceived conflicts of interest between our principal shareholders and our other investors. Furthermore, disagreements between the investor group and QPL which cannot be resolved could adversely affect the management of our company. The market price of our ADSs may be volatile and you may not be able to resell your ADSs at or above the price you paid, or at all. In addition, the liquidity of the ADSs may also be adversely affected by delisting if we cannot meet Nasdaq Capital Market listing requirements. Our ADSs have experienced substantial price volatility during the past three years, particularly as a result of variations between our anticipated and actual financial results, the published expectations of analysts, and announcements by our competitors and by us. From time-to-time, this volatility has been exacerbated by the relatively low average daily trading volumes of our ADSs. In addition, the stock market itself has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have negatively affected the market price of the stocks of many technology and manufacturing companies. These factors, as well as general worldwide economic and political conditions, may materially adversely affect the market price of our ADSs in the future. Our ADSs were transferred to the Nasdaq Capital Market from the Nasdaq Global Market (formerly the Nasdaq National Market) effective November 30, 2005. On May 25, 2005, we received a compliance notice from The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc., or Nasdaq, stating that, for a period of 30 consecutive trading days, our ADSs had closed below the minimum bid price of $1.00 per ADS as required under the Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5) for continued listing on the Nasdaq Global Market. In accordance with Nasdaq’s Marketplace Rules, 8 Table of Contents we had until November 21, 2005 to regain compliance with the Nasdaq Global Market’s continued listing requirements and, as we failed to meet those requirements, we transferred the listing of our ADSs to the Nasdaq Capital Market. On July 17, 2006, we received a compliance notice from Nasdaq stating that, for a period of 30 consecutive trading days, our ADSs had closed below the minimum bid price of $1.00 per ADS as required under Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4320(e)(2)(E)(i) for continued listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market. In accordance with Nasdaq Marketplace 4310(c)(8)(D), we were provided with 180 calendar days, until January 16, 2007, to regain compliance with the Nasdaq Capital Market’s continued listing requirements or be subject to delisting. Effective at the close of business on December 22, 2006, we adjusted our ADS ratio from a ratio of one ADS for every five ordinary shares to a ratio of one ADS for every 15 ordinary shares. On January 11, 2007, we received a Nasdaq letter advising that we regained compliance with the minimum bid price requirement for continued listing found in Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4320(e)(2)(E)(ii). On July 30, 2007, we received another compliance notice from Nasdaq stating that, for a period of 30 consecutive trading days, our ADSs had closed below the minimum bid price of $1.00 per share as required under Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4320(e)(2)(E)(i) for continued listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market. In accordance with Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(8)(D), we have been provided with 180 calendar days, until January 28, 2008, to regain compliance with the Nasdaq Capital Market’s continued listing requirements or be subject to delisting. If compliance cannot be demonstrated by January 28, 2008, Nasdaq will determine whether we meet the initial listing criteria for the Nasdaq Capital Market, other than the bid price requirement. If we meet the initial listing criteria, we may be granted an additional 180 calendar days to regain compliance with the bid price requirement. If we are not eligible for this additional compliance period, Nasdaq will provide written notification that our ADSs will be delisted. On September 17, 2007, we received a Nasdaq Staff Determination (“Staff Determination”) letter indicating that the Company’s market value of listed securities has been below $35,000,000 as required for continued inclusion by Marketplace Rule 4320(e)(2)(B) and that its American Depositary Shares are, therefore, subject to delisting. The Company was also notified by Nasdaq at that time that it does not comply with the minimum stockholders’ equity of $2,500,000 or net income from continuing operations of $500,000 in the most recently completed fiscal year or in two of the last three most recently completed fiscal years, which are also requirements for continued listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market. We have appealed the Staff Determination and have received a hearing date of November 1, 2007 for such appeal. At the hearing, the Company will be required to address the foregoing non-compliance with the Nasdaq listing rules. Nasdaq’s delisting action has been stayed, pending a final written determination by the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel following the hearing. Our ADSs are currently trading on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the trading symbol “ASTT.” The price of our ADSs could be further negatively impacted by the adjustment to our ADS ratio, the conversion of Series A Preferred Shares, the exercise of warrants and the payment of future dividends on our Series A Preferred Shares. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet the listing requirements for the Nasdaq Capital Market in the future or that we will succeed with our appeal hearing with Nasdaq to avoid delisting. The liquidity and price of our ADSs most probably will be negatively impacted by delisting. For example, the demand for our ADSs may be curtailed by certain investment entities that have self-imposed restrictions and/or investment limitations regarding the trading in and holding of securities that are not listed. Any of these entities that hold our ADSs prior to delisting would likely seek to sell their ADSs, which would tend to depress the price of our ADSs. In addition, the quotation of our ADSs on the Nasdaq Global Market preempted the operation of the laws of the various U.S. states relating to the qualification of securities. Securities listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market or that have been delisted do not preempt the operation of these laws and, as a result, the liquidity of our ADSs may be negatively impacted. If we are unable to meet the listing requirements to remain on the Nasdaq Capital Market, our ADSs may be traded on the Over The Counter Bulletin Board or our ADSs may not be traded on any market and the price and liquidity of your ADSs may decline. 9 Table of Contents Our business is and will continue to be substantially affected by the highly cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry, which cyclicality is beyond our control. Our business is substantially affected by market conditions in the semiconductor industry, which is highly cyclical. The industry has been subject to significant downturns characterized by reduced product demand, increased competition and declines in average selling prices and margins. Semiconductor industry conditions are often affected by manufacturing over-capacity and declining demand and reduced pricing in end-user markets. The overall demand for semiconductors increased significantly during the period from the second quarter of calendar year 2003 through the first quarter of calendar year 2004, but in the July 2004 quarter, the semiconductor industry experienced a downturn and our net sales on a quarterly basis decreased sequentially from that quarter through the July 2005 quarter. Since the July 2005 quarter, the semiconductor industry has experienced a gradual recovery through the present, but we have failed to capture all the benefits of such recovery that we otherwise might obtain due to disruptions in our operations during our move to Dongguan, China, which was completed in our October 2006 quarter. After moving our manufacturing operations to China, we are able to improve our cost structure by taking advantage of skilled and low cost labor pool. However, if any future downturn in the semiconductor industry proves to be similar to the 2004 downturn, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected, our cash position would further erode and we may be required to seek new financing, which may not be obtainable on acceptable terms or at all. We may also be required to reduce our capital expenditures, which in turn could hinder our ability to implement our business plan and to improve our productivity. In addition, we may need to expand our production capacity and throughput to maintain or increase revenues if average selling prices, or ASPs, decline, in connection with an industry downturn. Because of the past downturns in the semiconductor industry and the uncertainty of the gradual recovery, we continue to re-evaluate our product mix and the direction of our business. This re-evaluation led to significant write-downs of property, plant and equipment of $81.8 million for the year ended April 30, 2003 and $19.9 million for the year ended April 30, 2005. We may need to make additional write-downs in the future. Our principal market is in the communications sector, which is subject to fluctuating demand and continuous pressure on selling prices. A significant percentage of our net sales is derived from customers who use assembly or test services for semiconductor devices used in the communications sector. Sales to the communications sector comprised 54%, 52% and 61% of total net sales for the fiscal years ended April 30, 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. This sector has been subject to extreme fluctuations in demand, and in the past we have experienced a prolonged industry-wide slowdown in demand in the communications sector. Historically, the average selling price of communications products has continuously declined, and the resulting pricing pressure on services provided by us has led to reductions in our net sales and decreasing margins. For the past four years, we have embarked upon a strategy to diversify our customer base, increase margins and reduce dependency on the communications sector. Some of the other market sectors which we seek to diversify our customer base include the consumer, personal computers/computing and automotive/industrial sectors. However, decreasing average selling prices could also affect products in these sectors. Moreover, the execution of our strategy continues to take time and may ultimately not be successfully implemented. For example, we may lose customers, experience reductions in sales or experience lower margins for customers outside the communications sector. If we are unable to successfully implement our diversification strategy, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our ability to rapidly develop and successfully bring to market advanced technologies and services is important to maintaining our competitive position and profitability. The semiconductor industry is characterized by rapid technological developments. Since we have been reducing our investments in research and development in the last five fiscal years (and particularly between fiscal years ended April 30, 2006 and 2007 during which time we were implementing significant cost reduction 10 Table of Contents measures), our research and development efforts may not yield commercially viable packages or test services to keep up with these technological changes. Any inability to meet our customers’ schedules for new product introductions could affect our revenue, prospects for growth and future customer relationships. Our customers seek advanced and quick time-to-market assembly and test capabilities for their increasingly complex end-user applications. Failure to maintain or increase investment in research and development or to advance our designs and process technologies successfully and in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our competitiveness and our profitability. Technological advances could lead to significant decreases in prices for maturing product offerings. Extending reliance on mature product offerings could reduce our gross margins. We could be required to incur significant capital expenditures for manufacturing technology and equipment to remain competitive. Semiconductor manufacturing has historically required, and in the future is likely to continue to require, a constant upgrading of process technology to remain competitive, as new and enhanced semiconductor processes are developed which permit the manufacture of smaller, more efficient and more powerful semiconductor devices. Our assembly and test facilities have required and will continue to require significant investments in manufacturing technology and equipment in the future. We have made substantial capital expenditures and installed significant production capacity to support new technologies and increase production volume. For our fiscal year ended April 30, 2007, we made capital expenditures of $17.7 million. As of April 30, 2007, we had commitments for future capital expenditures of approximately $1.2 million. We currently intend to fund these capital expenditures with the existing cash resources and positive cash flow generated from the savings, if any, expected to be realized from reductions in cost structure associated with the completion of the move of our manufacturing operations to Dongguan, China, from financing provided by our customers to purchase equipment to expand our capacity and from future new financings. However, our ability to generate positive cash flow from our customers is uncertain so we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient capital resources to make further necessary investments in manufacturing technology and equipment. Our ability to sustain needed capital expenditures may require alternative financing, including financing arrangements with our customers to purchase equipment that primarily services such customers and new external financing. In addition, due to the long lead time involved in the pre-deployment development and product qualification activities that must precede a new product release, we may be called upon to make substantial investments in both package design efforts and in new manufacturing equipment well in advance of our being able to record appreciable revenues derived from those new products. Further, during each stage of the long qualification process required by customers for our products, which can take up to six months to complete, there is a substantial risk that we will have to abandon a potential assembly or test service which is no longer marketable or technologically feasible or competitive and in which we have invested significant resources. Even if we are able to qualify new packages, a significant amount of time will have elapsed between our investment in new packages and the receipt of any related revenues. Because our industry is highly competitive and many of our competitors have greater operating and financial resources, we may not be able to secure new customers or maintain our customer base. The semiconductor packaging and test industry is highly competitive, with more than 50 independent providers of semiconductor assembly services worldwide. We believe our principal competitors include Advanced Semiconductor Engineering, Inc., Amkor Technology, Inc., or Amkor, Carsem (M) Sdn. Bhd., Siliconware Precision Industries Co., Ltd. and STATS ChipPAC Ltd. Many of our competitors have greater operating capacity and financial resources than we do and have proven research and development and marketing capabilities. If demand for semiconductor assembly and test services were to continue to increase, our competitors would be at an advantage to us to capture this increased demand by utilizing their greater financial resources to more rapidly increase capacity. Many of our competitors also have established relationships with many large semiconductor companies that are current or potential customers of ours. Further, lengthy qualification periods and a familiarity between potential customers and their current assembly service providers may limit our ability to secure new customers. 11 Table of Contents We also compete indirectly with the in-house assembly and test service resources of many of our largest customers, the integrated device manufacturers, or IDMs. These IDM customers may decide to shift some or all of their assembly and test services to internally sourced capacity. Due to this highly competitive environment, we may experience difficulties in securing business from new customers, additional business from our existing customers or even maintaining our current level of business with our existing customers. In addition, if the trend for semiconductor companies to outsource their packaging needs does not continue, we may not be able to maintain our customer base and our business and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. If any of our competitors grow through acquisitions or equity investment financing and we are unable to similarly grow, we may have difficulties competing against those competitors in terms of volume production, price competitiveness and array of services. Some of our competitors with greater financial resources have been able to grow through acquisitions or equity investment financing. There have been instances where one of our competitors has acquired the entire back-end assembly operations of an IDM. For example, Amkor acquired a substantial portion of IBM’s assembly and test operations in China and Singapore. Other examples of merger and acquisition activity among our competitors are the acquisition of ChipPAC, Inc. by ST Assembly Test Services Ltd., the acquisitions of UltraTera Corp. and NS Electronics Bangkok Ltd. by United Test and Assembly Center. An example of equity investment financing is Temasek Holdings’ voluntary takeover bid to increase its equity shareholdings in STATS ChipPAC. As a result of such growth through acquisitions or equity investment financing, these competitors will have increased capacity or stronger financial resources, and may be better positioned to increase their market share by decreasing prices. Additionally, as a result of such acquisitions or equity investment financing, these competitors may be able to provide a broader array of services. If we are unable to grow our business through acquisitions or equity investment financing, we may have difficulties competing successfully against these competitors. In addition, the indenture that governs our 9.25% senior notes due 2011 and our purchase money loan agreement require us to comply with certain covenants that limit our ability to enter into mergers or consolidations. We face risks associated with potential acquisitions, investments, strategic partnerships or other ventures, including whether we can identify opportunities, complete the transactions and integrate the other parties into our business. We believe that the semiconductor packaging industry may undergo consolidation, both with regard to consolidation among independent assembly services providers and with respect to the outsourcing of in-house assembly capacity of semiconductor IDMs. We believe it may become increasingly important to acquire or make investments in complementary business, facilities, technologies, services or products, or enter into strategic partnerships with parties who can provide access to those assets, if appropriate opportunities arise. From time to time we have had discussions with companies regarding our acquiring, investing in or partnering with their businesses, products, services or technologies, and we regularly engage in such discussions in the ordinary course of our business. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition, investment, strategic or other partnership candidates or have sufficient resources to undertake such a transaction, which may place us at a disadvantage if our competitors are able to grow their market share through acquisitions, investments or strategic partnerships. If we do identify suitable candidates, we may not be able to complete those transactions on commercially acceptable terms or at all. If we acquire another company, we could have difficulty in integrating that company’s personnel, products, operations and technology. In addition, the key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses and reduce the expected benefits of the acquisition. 12 Table of Contents Our assembly and test processes are complex and prone to error, which may create defects and adversely affect production yields. Assembly and test services are prone to human error and equipment malfunction. Defective packages and services may also result from: • improper programming of customer specified manufacturing instructions; • contaminants in the manufacturing environment; • equipment deviations from process specifications; • the use of defective raw materials; or • defective vendor-provided leadframes or component parts. These factors have periodically contributed to lower production yields and may continue to do so, particularly in connection with any expansion of capacity or change in processing steps. In addition, our production yields on new packaging technologies could be lower during the period necessary for us to develop the requisite expertise and experience with these processes. Any failure by us to maintain high quality standards and acceptable production yields, if significant and sustained, could result in delays in shipments, increased costs or cancellation of orders, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In order to meet customer demands for package design, assembly and test services, we may be required to add new test equipment, which can be very capital intensive and may not result in expected revenues and/or margins. We provide our customers with package design, assembly and test services. Many of our customers seek to do business with independent assemblers who can provide a full range of assembly and test services, particularly testing of mixed-signal semiconductors which perform both analog and digital functions. In order to satisfy such customers’ demands, we may be called upon to acquire additional test equipment capacity, which could require us to increase our capital expenditures on test equipment. We may not have sufficient cash resources or available financing to increase our capital expenditures in response to our customers’ demands. Additionally, the use of mixed-signal test equipment involves complex software programming and the use of sophisticated and expensive equipment operated by a highly skilled workforce. However, customers requesting these types of test services are typically not willing to commit to the utilization of such additional capacity beyond their short-term forecasts. If these customers do not place their expected orders or we experience a general decrease in demand for our test services, we could have excess capacity and low utilization rates for our test equipment, which could increase our costs and negatively affect our expected revenues and/or margins. In addition, any failure by us to provide package design, assembly and test services could result in the loss of customers or sales of our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our profitability has in past periods been affected by low capacity utilization rates, which are significantly influenced by factors outside of our control. As a result of the capital intensive nature of our business, our operations are characterized by high fixed costs. Consequently, insufficient utilization of installed capacity can negatively affect our profitability. For example, in fiscal year 2003, our capacity utilization rates ranged from averages of approximately 42% to 67% per month for our assembly operations as a result of the weak demand for our assembly and test services resulting from the prolonged downturn in the semiconductor industry. In addition, as a result of the most recent industry downturn, which occurred in late 2004, our capacity utilization rates averaged approximately 68% in fiscal year 2005. While the industry has gradually recovered in fiscal year 2006, we were unable to capture all the benefits of such recovery that we might otherwise obtain due to disruptions in our operations during our move to Dongguan, China, and our capacity utilization rates averaged approximately 64% for fiscal year 2007. If we experience low capacity utilization in future periods, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents Our customers generally do not place purchase orders far in advance, which makes it difficult for us to predict our future sales, adjust our production costs and efficiently allocate our capacity on a timely basis and could therefore have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. Although our customers provide us with forecasts of their expected orders, our customers generally do not place purchase orders far in advance of the required shipping dates. In addition, due to the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry, our customers’ purchase orders have varied significantly from period to period. As a result, we do not typically operate with any significant backlog, which makes it difficult for us to forecast our sales in future periods. Also, since our costs of sales and operating expenses have high fixed cost components, including depreciation and employee costs, we may be unable to adjust our cost structure in a timely manner to compensate for shortfalls in sales. Our current and anticipated customers may not place orders with us in accordance with our expectations or at all. As a result, it may be difficult to plan our capacity, which requires significant lead time to ramp up and cannot be altered easily. If our capacity does not match our customer demand, we will either be burdened with expensive and unutilized overcapacity or be unable to support our customers’ requirements, both of which would have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We generate a significant amount of revenue from a limited number of customers. The loss of, or reduced purchases by, one or more of our larger customers may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. For each year ended April 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, our single largest customer accounted for approximately 53.7%, 32.6% and 21.1%, respectively, of net sales. For the fiscal year ended April 30, 2007, our five largest customers by net sales accounted for approximately 69.0% of net sales and our ten largest customers by net sales accounted for approximately 79.3% of net sales. For the fiscal year ended April 30, 2006, our five largest customers by net sales accounted for approximately 59.2% of net sales and our ten largest customers by net sales accounted for approximately 74.0% of net sales. If any key customer were to significantly reduce its purchases from us, our results of operations may likely be adversely affected. In addition, there may be a trend toward increasing customer concentration. In line with industry practice, new customers usually require us to pass a lengthy and rigorous qualification process that can take up to six months and be a significant cost to us and the customer. As a result, customers are reluctant to qualify new assembly and test service providers and it may be difficult for us to attract new major customers and/or break into new markets. In addition, if we fail to qualify packages with potential customers or customers with which we have recently become qualified do not use our services, then our customer base could become more concentrated with an even more limited number of customers accounting for a significant portion of our net sales. Furthermore, we believe that once a semiconductor company has selected a particular assembly and test company’s services, the semiconductor company generally relies on that vendor’s packages for specific applications and, to the extent possible, subsequent generations of that vendor’s packages. Accordingly, it may be difficult to achieve significant sales from a customer once it selects another vendor’s assembly and test services. We are vulnerable to weaknesses in the economies of Asian countries. Most of our important suppliers of raw materials, leadframes and the semiconductor chips delivered to us for assembly and test are located in Asia. Substantially all our customers are United States or European multinational companies and nearly 100% of our invoices are billed in U.S. dollars. We estimate that approximately 74.0% of our net sales during the fiscal year ended April 30, 2007 and 65.3% of our net sales during the fiscal year ended April 30, 2006 represented packages shipped to distribution centers and destinations within Asia (including Hong Kong). These factors raise a number of financial, operational and business risks, including: • exposure to regional economic and political developments; • changes in local intellectual property laws and commercial laws; • the imposition of local currency controls; 14 Table of Contents • adverse changes in local tax law or adverse changes in customs duties and procedures; • availability of supplies and materials in China; • transportation difficulties; and • unfavorable changes to import/export regulations and procedures. These factors could adversely affect both our operations and the operations of our suppliers and customers. Future economic downturns in Asia or elsewhere would likely be detrimental to our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to operate our Chinese manufacturing operations is dependent upon our working relationship with our development partner in China. Our development partner in China, the Dongguan Changan County Changshi Development Company (“Changshi”), is an entity established by the Dongguan government to develop and manage several newly designated industrial parks in Changshi prefecture Chang An town, Dongguan City, Guangdong Province. Changshi’s performance during the construction of Phase I and Phase II of our Dongguan, China facilities and completion of the interior finish and fixtures of our Phase I facility in Dongguan, China, met or exceeded our expectations with respect to the quality and timeliness of the construction. However, Changshi may not continue to perform at these levels or at all during its assistance to us in the operation of our Dongguan, China facilities. Moreover, we could experience difficulties in our relationship with Changshi, and the decisions made by Changshi may not be consistent with our interests, which in either case could be disruptive to our operations. Changshi is the owner of the Phase I and Phase II facilities’ land-use rights and buildings, constructed our Phase I facility’s interior finish and fixtures and holds the approvals from the Chinese government necessary for us to operate our assembly and test facilities in Dongguan. A dispute with Changshi could cause Changshi to be unwilling to perform its contractual obligations as lessor for our Dongguan, China facilities. In such circumstances, Changshi could prevent us from operating the facilities, which, following transfer of all of our manufacturing operations to Dongguan, China means that we would be unable to conduct our business. Although we have the contractual right under our respective leases with Changshi to purchase the Dongguan, China facilities from Changshi at stipulated times, there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient funds or access to financing in order to purchase the facilities. Any disruption in our business due to a dispute with Changshi may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, if Changshi were to breach one or more of its agreements with us, our agreements with Changshi provide that we must pursue any claims against it through binding arbitration in Beijing before the China International Economic and Trade Arbitration Commission. The outcome of any such arbitration would be controlled by Chinese law and could be time consuming and unfavorable to us. Our direct labor, and certain indirect labor, workforce are composed primarily of People’s Republic of China nationals, and we expect these employees to unionize. If we encounter future labor problems, this could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. None of our employees in Dongguan, China or our other employees are currently represented by a union. However, our workers in our Dongguan, China facilities may unionize, although we are not sure what percentage of this workforce will be affected. It is possible that the union will be subject to collective bargaining and wage agreements. These agreements could increase our labor costs in China and have an adverse impact on our operating results. In addition, once unionized, this workforce may undertake labor protests and work stoppages, which could also have an adverse impact on our operating results. We cannot assure you that any potential issues with the expected labor union or other employees will be resolved favorably for us in the future, that we will be successful in negotiating any potential wage and collective bargaining agreements, that we will not experience significant work stoppages in the future or that we will not record significant charges related to those work stoppages or our compliance with changing minimum wage labor laws. 15 Table of Contents Operating facilities in China can be fraught with uncertainty, including economic, political, legal operational and financial risks, and there can be no assurances that our China facilities will bring their intended benefits to us. Many economic, political, legal, operational and financial risks may prevent us from realizing our intended benefits in China in connection with the completion of the move of our manufacturing operations to Dongguan, China. These risks include: • economic, political and social uncertainties in China; • changes in, and the arbitrary enforcement of, bankruptcy laws, commercial laws, currency controls, import tariffs and duties, customs regulations and taxation laws in China; • local infrastructure problems, such as electrical power interruptions, in an area that has only recently undergone a very rapid industrial development; • quality problems arising from the start up of new manufacturing processes by operators who lack experience with our sophisticated manufacturing equipment; • transportation difficulties that may be encountered in receiving supplies and/or in shipping finished products by land or by air; • an unwillingness or hesitancy on the part of customers to qualify their products in the new facilities; • an inability to attract and retain sufficient and qualified management and engineering talent and other experienced employees; • measures which may be introduced to control inflation or deflation; • changes in the rate or method of taxation; • changes in tax holidays; • continuing fluctuations in the value of the Chinese Renminbi currency; • modifications to fiscal, banking or monetary policies to reduce the rate of future growth in China; and • imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion and remittances abroad. While China’s economy has experienced significant growth in the past twenty years, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The Chinese government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall economy in China, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected by governmental control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations applicable to us. The economy in China has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Despite recent transitions to a market-oriented economy, a substantial portion of productive assets in China is still owned by the Chinese government. In addition, the Chinese government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. It also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency denominated obligations, setting monetary and banking policy and providing preferential treatment for particular industries or companies. The Chinese legal system is based on written statutes. These statutes remain largely untested and prior court decisions interpreting them may be noted for reference but have limited value as precedents. Since 1979, the Chinese government has promulgated laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as bankruptcy, foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. However, because these laws and regulations are relatively new and because of the limited volume of published cases and their 16 Table of Contents non-binding nature, interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve significant uncertainty. In addition, as the Chinese legal system develops, changes in such laws and regulations, their interpretation or their enforcement may lead to additional restrictions on our business. The Chinese government and provincial and local governments have provided, and continue to provide, various incentives to Chinese domestic companies in the semiconductor industry, which includes ASAT China, our Chinese operating subsidiary, in order to encourage development of the industry. Such incentives include tax rebates, reduced tax rates, tax holidays, favorable lending policies and other measures. Any of these incentives could be reduced or eliminated by governmental authorities at any time. Any such reduction or elimination of incentives which may be provided to us could adversely affect our business and operating results. There can be no assurances that economic, political, legal, operational and financial risks in China will not adversely affect our business. Our corporate structure may restrict our ability to receive dividends from, and transfer funds to, ASAT China, our Chinese operating subsidiary, which could restrict our ability to make payments on our 9.25% senior notes due 2011 or act in response to changing market conditions. While ASAT Holdings is a Cayman Islands holding company, we conduct our assembly and test operations through our Chinese subsidiary. The ability of this subsidiary to pay dividends and other payments to us may be restricted by factors that include changes in applicable foreign exchange and other laws and regulations. In particular, under China law, a Chinese subsidiary may pay dividends only after at least 10% of its net profit has been set aside as reserve funds, unless such reserves have reached at least 50% of its registered capital. The profit available for distribution from our Chinese subsidiary is determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in China. This calculation may differ from one performed in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Our Chinese subsidiary was founded in late December 2004 in connection with Phase II of the transition of our manufacturing operations from Hong Kong to Dongguan, China and has commenced operations. Moreover, its original registered capital is approximately $33.0 million, of which approximately $10.6 million has been contributed as of April 30, 2007 and the remainder will be due by December 2007. This subsidiary also has an increased registered capital requirement of approximately an additional $20.0 million that is due by 2009. Capital contributions to this subsidiary may be made by a mix of cash and in-kind (e.g., equipment) contribution. The ability of this subsidiary to pay dividends will depend ultimately on the profitability of its business. As a result, we may not have sufficient distributions from our Chinese subsidiary to enable necessary profit distributions to us or any distributions to our shareholders in the future. Payments by our Chinese subsidiary to us other than as dividends, such as payments of loan principal and interest, may be subject to governmental approval and taxation. It is also not permitted under China law for our Chinese subsidiary to directly lend money to our Hong Kong or other subsidiaries. Any transfer of funds from ASAT Holdings to our Chinese subsidiary, either as a shareholder loan or as an increase in registered capital, is subject to registration or approval of Chinese governmental authorities, including the relevant administration of foreign exchange or other relevant examining and approval authorities. Therefore, it is difficult to change our capital expenditure plans once the relevant funds have been remitted to our Chinese subsidiary. These limitations on the free flow of funds between us and our Chinese subsidiary could restrict our ability to act in response to changing market conditions and reallocate funds from our Chinese subsidiary to our other subsidiaries in a timely manner, or at all. We conduct our operations at a single location in China. Accordingly, we are vulnerable to natural disasters, and other disruptive regional events, which could cause us to lose revenue and perhaps lose customers. We conduct our assembly and test operations in our facilities in Dongguan, China. Significant damage or other impediments to any of these facilities, whether as a result of fire, weather, disease, civil strife, industrial 17 Table of Contents strikes, breakdowns of equipment, difficulties or delays in obtaining imported spare parts and equipment, natural disasters, terrorist incidents, industrial accidents or other causes, could temporarily disrupt or even shut down our operations, which would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. With respect to our facilities in Dongguan, China, Changshi has procured insurance covering the buildings and public liability insurance, we have procured insurance covering the contents of the buildings, public liability insurance and business interruption insurance. We cannot assure you that our insurance or the insurance procured by Changshi would be adequate to cover any direct or indirect loss or liability resulting from any of the events described above. Any disruptions in available power supplies in Dongguan, China could disrupt our operations, reduce our sales and increase our expenses. We have transferred all of our assembly and test operations to Dongguan, China, and they are dependent on a reliable source of electrical power. For economic and continuous manufacturing operations, we are dependent to a substantial degree on electrical power supplied by state run power generating facilities. China is now experiencing an electrical power shortfall that is expected to increase in the near term as the imbalance between capacity and demand grows. The projected power shortfall is expected to be most acute in southern China, including Dongguan, China, where our factory is located. In Dongguan, China demand for power exceeded supply during most of calendar years 2004, 2005 and 2006 and the first half of 2007. Should our Dongguan, China facilities be subject to rolling blackouts or should the power shortage result in brownouts of increased severity, our operations may suffer temporary shutdowns or be otherwise inconvenienced. We believe that the potential for blackouts and brownouts that could affect our operations at the Dongguan, China facilities will be highest during warm weather conditions. We currently have dedicated power supply lines to support our Phase I and Phase II facilities. In addition, we currently have back-up generators that support a portion of production at our Dongguan, China facilities. Phase II of our move to China also included the installation of a separate dedicated power supply line from an alternative power source, which we expect to provide independent and continuous back-up power. We expect that these dedicated power lines will not be subject to temporary or rolling blackouts, although they and our back-up generators may not provide us with adequate power during prolonged blackouts. Any interruption in our ability to continue our operations at the Dongguan, China facilities could damage our reputation, harm our ability to retain existing customers and to obtain new customers, and could result in lost revenue and increased expenses, any of which would substantially harm our business and results of operations. In addition to the above, if retail electricity prices rise dramatically in Dongguan, China, we would expect our expenses to increase and our operating results to be adversely affected. We may not be able to continue to reduce our cost structure. Even if we do, it may not reduce our operating expenses by as much as we anticipate. Beginning in 2001, in response to a severe downturn in the semiconductor sector, we began to reduce costs. Since the end of the January 2002 quarter, we have been implementing our corporate restructuring program in order to reduce our overall cost structure and achieve profitability. We implemented cost saving measures, including reductions in material, labor, overhead and administrative costs. We continue to reduce our cost structure and have installed SAP’s enterprise resource planning solution and Camstar’s manufacturing tracking and execution system to enable us to implement improved business processes, which steps have involved implementation and integration problems that we are currently seeking to address. We have also completed the move of our assembly and test facilities from Hong Kong to lower-cost facilities in Dongguan, China. We cannot assure you that these cost saving measures will lead to profitability or that any expected net savings will occur. We may continue to incur additional expenses associated with operating our assembly and test facilities in Dongguan, China. In addition, with respect to our new information systems, including our implementation of the 18 Table of Contents SAP system, there can be no assurances that we will not encounter delays, errors or cost-overruns and other adverse consequences in implementing such systems. As we upgrade our information systems, we have had and may continue to encounter difficulties in integrating such technology into our business and we may find that such new systems may not be appropriate for our business. If our new information systems prove to be inadequate or their implementation severely delayed, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. We rely on the development and perfection of ownership interests in a substantial amount of intellectual property in our business. If we are unable to protect this intellectual property, we may lose advantages in innovation over our competitors. We have patents, confidentiality agreements, and other arrangements intended to protect certain of our proprietary manufacturing processes and product technologies. As of April 30, 2007, we had approximately 50 issued U.S. patents. In addition, in May 2005, we entered into a multi-year cross-licensing agreement with LSI Logic Corporation (“LSI”) under which LSI will provide us with a license to use its Flip Chip semiconductor package assembly technology. During the April 2005 quarter, we entered into a multi-year cross licensing agreement with Amkor under which we will provide Amkor with a license for our TAPP™ semiconductor package technology and Amkor will provide us with a license for its Flip Chip semiconductor package technology. During the October 2003 quarter, we also entered into a “quad flat pack no lead” chipscale package, or QFN, patent cross-license agreement with Amkor. These arrangements and any future measures we take might not adequately cover or protect our intellectual property. We may also fail to maintain, grow or invest in research and development to strengthen our intellectual property. In particular, our competitors may be able to develop similar or superior products or manufacturing technologies, and many of these competitors invest greater amounts of capital towards such development efforts than we do. As a result, our patent portfolio may not have the breadth or depth of that of some of our competitors. Also, we cannot assure you that the Asian countries in which we manufacture and market our products will protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as does the United States. In particular, the intellectual property laws of China, where we have moved our assembly and test facilities, do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as does the United States. This could leave us vulnerable to willful patent infringement or to the theft of trade secret information. In addition, even if we have valid protections in place, we may not have sufficient financial and legal resources to protect or enforce our rights. Furthermore, because many of our products and technologies are not covered by any patents or pending patent applications, they are susceptible to independent duplication and/or reverse engineering by competitors. We are vulnerable to intellectual property infringement claims by third parties and may need to enforce our intellectual property rights against third parties. The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent claims regarding patent infringement. From time to time, third parties may claim that we are infringing on their intellectual property rights. Such claims could have a serious adverse effect on our business and financial condition. If a third party were to bring a valid legal claim against us for patent infringement, we could be required to: • discontinue the use of any of our processes considered infringing; • cease the manufacture, use, import and sale of infringing products; • pay substantial royalties and/or damages; • develop non-infringing technologies; or • acquire licenses to the technology that we had allegedly infringed. We may seek licenses from such parties, but they could either refuse to grant us a license or demand commercially unreasonable terms. We might not have sufficient resources both to pay for licenses and to remain competitive. Such infringement claims could also cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to have to suspend 19 Table of Contents or permanently cease the use of critical technologies or processes for the production and/or sale of major products. For instance, we settled a patent litigation case with Motorola, Inc., or Motorola, and Freescale Semiconductor, Inc., or Freescale, in connection with their claim of a breach under a patent cross-license agreement in July 2005. We may also need to enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights against infringement by third parties. If we were called to defend against a claim of patent infringement, or were we compelled to litigate to assert our intellectual property rights, we could incur substantial legal and court costs and be required to consume substantial management time and engineering resources in the process. We could be adversely affected by an adverse outcome in legal proceedings to which we are, or in the future may become, subject. On December 8, 2006, ASAT Limited, one of our subsidiaries, received an additional tax assessment from the Hong Kong Inland Revenue Department (“HKIRD”) with respect to the deductibility of certain expenses for Hong Kong profits tax purposes for fiscal year 2000/2001. Queries were raised by the HKIRD concerning the deductibility of interest expenses related to certain borrowings of ASAT Limited for profits tax purposes and whether the related borrowings were used towards revenue-generating activities, which allow the consequential interest expenses to be deductible for tax purposes. The assessment requires us to pay HK$18.8 million (approximately US$2.4 million) by January 12, 2007. On December 29, 2006, we filed an objection to the HKIRD for the full amount. On January 29, 2007, we filed a request to the HKIRD to reconsider its holdover claim and on January 30, 2007, the HKIRD had offered us an unconditional holdover, i.e., waiver, for 50% of the total tax in dispute (approximately HK$9.4 million or US$1.2 million). Although the case is not yet concluded and we are still required to provide further evidence to the HKIRD showing that the borrowings were used towards revenue-generating activities, the HKIRD has requested us to make prepayment for the remaining 50% of the total tax in dispute. On January 31, 2007, we filed a proposal to the HKIRD for installment payments for the remaining HK$9.4 million (approximately US$1.2 million) and the proposal was accepted on March 27, 2007. If the HKIRD accepts the evidence provided and reverses its assessment, all prepayments made will be refunded to us. Our final tax liability, if any, will depend upon the quality of evidence provided and we are still in the process of gathering information. As of April 30, 2007, we recorded a provision of US$1.2 million for the amount of tax in dispute. In addition, we have in the past and may in the future become involved in various intellectual property, product liability, commercial, environmental, and tax litigations and claims, government investigations and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. Litigation is inherently unpredictable, and we could in the future have a judgment rendered against us or enter into settlement of claims that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, if we receive a final unsatisfied judgment in any litigation not covered by insurance in excess of $10 million that is not cured within 60 days following such judgment, there will be an event of default under the indenture governing our 9.25% senior notes due 2011 and our purchase money loan agreement. Upon an event of default, either the trustee or the holders of at least 25% of the outstanding principal amount of the notes may declare the amounts payable on the notes due and payable. In the event that our obligations on the notes are accelerated at a time when we do not have sufficient funds to repay the amount due on the notes, there will be a payment default on the notes and our financial results will be materially adversely affected. Similarly, if our obligations under the purchase money loan agreement are accelerated when we do not have sufficient funds to repay the amounts due, a cross-default could arise under the indenture and our business financial results and operations would be materially adversely affected. The loss of key senior management and engineers could negatively impact our business prospects. In addition, our inability to attract and retain key personnel at all levels would limit our ability to develop new and enhanced assembly and test services. We depend on our ability to attract and retain senior management, highly skilled technical, managerial, sales and marketing personnel. Competition for senior management, highly skilled technical, managerial, sales and marketing personnel is intense, particularly in Hong Kong and Southern China, and the retention of skilled 20 Table of Contents engineering personnel in our industry typically requires competitive compensation packages. In attracting and retaining such personnel and other personnel at all level, we may be required to incur significantly increased compensation costs. We cannot predict whether we will be successful in attracting and retaining the personnel we need to successfully develop and market new and enhanced assembly and test services in order to grow our business and achieve profitability. On September 1, 2006 our former Chief Executive Officer resigned for personal reasons. Our current Acting Chief Executive Officer assumed his position for the interim period during which we are actively searching for a permanent Chief Executive Officer. Our current Acting Chief Executive Officer is a member of our board of directors and is affiliated with one of our principal shareholder groups, QPL. On July 17, 2007, our former Acting Chief Financial Officer resigned, and on July 18, 2007 our permanent Chief Financial Officer assumed his position. Our former Acting Chief Financial Officer is and continues to be a member of our board of directors and is affiliated with one of our principal shareholder groups, the investor group. Our current Chief Financial Officer is the brother of our former Acting Chief Financial Officer. Although we are currently in the process of searching for permanent replacement, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting and retaining a permanent Chief Executive Officer in the near future or that our current Acting Chief Executive Officer will continue to serve ASAT until permanent hire is made. In connection with our ongoing corporate restructuring to improve efficiency, various senior management, officers, managers, engineers and other personnel in various departments have left our company. Their responsibilities are currently being assumed by other personnel within the company or replaced with new hires. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting and retaining sufficient and capable personnel at all levels and functions in our company to meet our human resources needs. The loss of key suppliers or their failure to deliver sufficient quantities of materials on a timely basis could negatively impact our business prospects. Our inability to qualify second sources for certain suppliers could limit our production capabilities. The principal materials used in our assembly process are polymer substrates, leadframes, gold wire and plastic molding compounds. In the ordinary course of business, we purchase most of our leadframes from QPL and its affiliates, our largest affiliated shareholder group, and our substrates from several suppliers in Taiwan, Japan and Korea. To maintain competitive packaging operations, we must obtain from these suppliers, in a timely manner, sufficient quantities of acceptable quality materials and equipment at competitive prices. We purchase all of our materials on a purchase order basis and have no long-term contracts with any suppliers, other than the inventory management and supply agreement we entered into with QPL Limited, or QPLL, and Talent Focus Industries Limited, or Talent Focus, on October 27, 2005. From time to time, particularly during industry upturns, vendors have extended lead times or limited the supply of required materials to us because of vendor capacity constraints and, consequently, we have experienced difficulty in obtaining acceptable materials on a timely basis. In addition, particularly during industry upturns, prices that we pay for materials may increase due to increased industry demand. This increase could negatively impact our operating results especially if we are unable to pass this cost on to our customers. In addition, increasing commodity prices have negatively impacted our supply purchases because our vendors have passed on the price increases to us. Further, if any of our vendors were to cease operations for any reason, we may experience difficulty in obtaining acceptable materials from alternative vendors on a timely, cost effective basis. For example, in the April 2004 quarter, an upstream vendor to one of our key suppliers announced the discontinuance of the production of metalized tape of a certain composition. This discontinuance forced our suppliers to send “end of life” notices to almost a dozen of its customers, several of whom were highly dependent on products assembled with the discontinued material. Environmental, health and safety laws could impose material liability on us and our financial condition may be negatively affected if we are required to incur significant costs of compliance. Our operations in China are required to comply with various Chinese environmental laws and regulations administered by the central and local government environmental protection bureaus, including any environmental 21 Table of Contents rules introduced by the local Chinese governments in Dongguan, China. These laws impose controls on our air and water discharges, on the storage, handling, discharge and disposal of chemicals, and on employee exposure to hazardous substances and impose fees for the discharge of waste substances above prescribed levels, require the payment of fines for serious violations and provide that the Chinese national and local governments may at their own discretion close or suspend any facility which fails to comply with orders requiring it to cease or cure operations causing environmental damage. If these laws were to change, they could require us to incur costs to maintain compliance and could impose liability to remedy the effects of hazardous substance contamination. Stricter enforcement of existing laws, the adoption of new laws or regulations or our failure to comply with these laws or regulations could cause us to incur material liabilities and require us to incur additional expense, curtail our operations and restrict our ability to grow. We do not anticipate making material environmental capital expenditures in connection with our current operations in our Dongguan, China facilities. However, we cannot predict whether future environmental, health and safety laws in China will require additional capital expenditures or impose other process requirements upon us, curtail our operations, or restrict our ability to expand our operations. We could be subject to material liabilities if the governments in China adopt new environmental, health and safety laws, we fail to comply with new or existing laws, or other issues relating to hazardous substances arise. The implementation of new environmental regulatory legal requirements, such as lead free initiatives, could, and do, impact our product designs and manufacturing processes. The impact of such regulations on our product designs and manufacturing processes could, and do, affect the timing of compliant product introductions, the cost of our products as well as their commercial success. For example, a directive in the European Union banned the use of lead and other heavy metals in electrical and electronics equipment beginning July 1, 2006. As a result, our customers selling products in Europe began demanding products from component manufacturers, such as us, that do not contain these banned substances. Because most of our existing assembly processes utilize a tin-lead alloy as a soldering material in the manufacturing process, we changed some of our assembly processes and materials for specified products and we redesigned some of our assembly processes and products to use soldering that does not contain lead in response to this legislation. The redesign has required increased research and development costs and manufacturing and quality control costs. In addition, the products we assemble to comply with the new regulatory standards may not meet the same reliability levels as our products assembled with non-compliant materials and processes. If we are unable to successfully and timely redesign existing products and introduce new products that meet the standards set by environmental regulation and our customers, sales of our products could decline, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of our costs are denominated in foreign currencies and the continued depreciation of the U.S. dollar against such foreign currencies, including the Chinese Renminbi, could increase these costs. While substantially all of our revenues are U.S. dollar denominated, a portion of our costs are denominated in other currencies, primarily Chinese Renminbi, Hong Kong dollars and, to a lesser extent, Japanese yen. The Hong Kong dollar historically has accounted for the largest share of our costs, but we are now increasingly exposed to the Chinese Renminbi. Because the exchange rate of the Hong Kong dollar to the U.S. dollar has remained close to the range varying between HK$7.75 per U.S. dollar and HK$7.85 per U.S. dollar since 2005, we have not experienced significant foreign exchange gains or losses associated with that currency. However, the Hong Kong government could change the trading band at HK$7.75 to HK$7.85 per U.S. dollar at any time. The depreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Hong Kong dollar would generally increase our Hong Kong dollar expenses, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, our exposure to fluctuations in the value of the Chinese Renminbi has significantly increased due to the completed move of our manufacturing facilities to Dongguan, China. From 1994 to July 2005, the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, including Hong Kong and U.S. dollars, was based on rates set by the People’s Bank of China, which were set daily based on the previous day’s interbank foreign market exchange 22 Table of Contents rate and current exchange rates on the world financial markets. As a result, the exchange rate of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar was previously substantially pegged or fixed. On July 21, 2005 the government of China announced that the exchange rate of the Renminbi was being appreciated against the U.S. dollar and that the Renminbi would henceforth have a more flexible exchange rate within a narrow band that would float against a basket of foreign currencies. However, the Chinese government may decide to change or abandon this policy at its sole discretion at any time in the future. As of September 30, 2007, the exchange rate was RMB7.52 to US$1.00 as compared with RMB7.96 to US$1.00 as of September 30, 2006. This appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and any further appreciation in the exchange rate of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar will increase our costs relating to our Dongguan, China operations. We may experience seasonality in the sales of our products, which could cause our operating results to be adversely impacted. We may experience a decline in business activity during the Lunar New Year and China’s National Day, which are major holidays celebrated in China. Many businesses within China are closed for a period of approximately 10 days around the Lunar New Year, which occurs in January or February of each year, and China’s National Day, which begins on October 1 of each year. This could lead to decreased sales during the fiscal quarters in which the Lunar New Year and China’s National Day fall. We expect that as we conduct our business in China, we will experience seasonality, although it is difficult for us to evaluate the degree to which seasonality may affect our business in future periods. In addition, we typically experience a slight decline in business activity in the period from the middle of our first fiscal quarter through the beginning of our second fiscal quarter of each year (approximately June through August). We have in the past been, and may in the future be, in default or otherwise out of compliance with the covenants and conditions in the agreements governing our debt. As we continue to face commercial business challenges, we have occasionally been in default or otherwise been out of compliance with the covenants and conditions in the agreements governing our debt. Such defaults have been cured or otherwise remedied by obtaining amendments or waivers from our creditors. However, we cannot assure you that we will not have additional defaults in the future, or that we will be able to obtain any necessary amendments or waivers to cure additional defaults in a timely manner or at all. The occurrence of a default or the failure to obtain any necessary amendment or waiver could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, these difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses and cause us to seek to undertake a restructuring of our obligations with our creditors, and we cannot give assurances that we would be able to accomplish a restructuring on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. On August 1, 2007, we did not pay the regularly scheduled interest payment of approximately $7.0 million on our 9.25% senior notes due 2011. We subsequently paid such interest payment, including accumulated penalty interest, on August 28, 2007 which is within the 30-day grace period permitted under the indenture governing such notes. We issued Series A Preferred Shares and warrants in connection with the preferred shares financing arrangement, warrants in connection with the purchase money loan facility with our two principal shareholder groups, warrants in connection with amending the purchase money loan facility and warrants in connection with the recently approved amendments to the indenture governing our 9.25% senior notes due 2011, which can have a significant dilutive effect upon our shareholders. In July 2005, we entered into a settlement agreement with Freescale, the former semiconductor products division of Motorola with whom we had an intellectual property infringement dispute. In connection with the settlement agreement, we issued to Freescale a five-year warrant to purchase 10,937,500 of our ordinary shares, which is the equivalent of 729,167 ADSs, at an exercise price of $0.16 per share (equivalent to $2.40 per ADS). See “Item 4—Information on the Company—Business Overiew—Legal Proceedings.” 23 Table of Contents As described in “Item 5—Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Capital Expenditures and Material Financing Arrangements”, in October 2005, we completed our preferred shares financing arrangement and satisfied the conditions for the effectiveness of our purchase money loan facility with our two principal shareholder groups. We issued warrants in connection with the preferred shares commitment to two of our principal shareholder groups and to a member of the JPMP shareholder group in connection with the purchase money loan facility, and subsequently issued additional warrants in connection with the borrowing of the first tranche of funding under the purchase money loan facility to the lenders that funded the first tranche of loans. The holders can convert their Series A Preferred Shares into ordinary shares at any time prior to their maturity. The initial conversion price of the Series A Preferred Shares was $0.09 per ordinary share (equivalent to $1.35 per ADS), but was reset on October 31, 2006 to $0.065 per ordinary share (equivalent to $0.975 per ADS). The conversion price is subject to adjustment under anti-dilution provisions, including weighted average based anti-dilution protection in the event of issuance of certain equity securities, and shall be proportionally adjusted for share splits, dividends, recombinations and similar events. The warrants are exercisable at a price of $0.01 per ordinary share (equivalent to $0.15 per ADS), subject to adjustment for stock splits and certain other situations specified in the warrants. We have also issued additional Series A Preferred Shares and warrants in connection with our rights offering. On August 23, 2007, we agreed to issue warrants for ordinary shares in connection with the amendment to our purchase money loan agreement, which was required as a condition to closing the solicitation of consents to amend our indenture governing our 9.25% senior notes due 2011, as described below. These warrants will be issued to the lenders under the purchase money loan agreement, subject to certain conditions specified therein. These warrants would, in the aggregate, be exercisable for a total of approximately 4.9% of ASAT Holding’s total outstanding ordinary shares on a fully diluted basis (inclusive of ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of warrants to the holders themselves and which ASAT Holdings will grant to the eligible holders of our 9.25% senior notes due 2011). The warrants will have an exercise price of $0.01 per ordinary share and will expire on February 1, 2011, subject to adjustment as provided in the warrants and the other terms and conditions contained therein. These warrants and the ordinary shares into which they will be exercisable are not registered under the Securities Act of 1933, or any state securities laws, and will be issued in a private transaction under Regulation D and/or in an offshore transaction under Regulation S. Unless the warrants and ordinary shares are registered in the future, they may not be offered or sold in the United States except pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act and applicable state laws. On August 27, 2007, we agreed to issue warrants for ordinary shares in connection with the amendment of the indenture governing our 9.25% senior notes due 2011. These warrants will be issued to eligible holders of our 9.25% senior notes due 2011 who consented to our solicitation of consents ending August 23, 2007 to amend the indenture governing our 9.25% senior notes due 2011, subject to certain conditions specified therein. These warrants would, in the aggregate, be exercisable for a total of approximately 4.9% of ASAT Holding’s total outstanding ordinary shares on a fully diluted basis (inclusive of ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of warrants to the holders themselves and which ASAT Holdings will grant to the lenders under its purchase money loan agreement). The warrants will have an exercise price of $0.01 per ordinary share and will expire on February 1, 2011, subject to adjustment as provided in the warrants and the other terms and conditions contained therein. These warrants and the ordinary shares into which they will be exercisable are not registered under the Securities Act of 1933, or any state securities laws, and will be issued in a private transaction under Regulation D and/or in an offshore transaction under Regulation S. Unless the warrants and ordinary shares are registered in the future, they may not be offered or sold in the United States except pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act and applicable state laws. If holders convert the Series A Preferred Shares or exercise any of the foregoing warrants, we will issue additional ordinary shares, and such issuances will be dilutive to our holders of ordinary shares and ADSs. In addition, we have the option to pay the semiannual dividend due on our outstanding Series A Preferred Shares in our ordinary shares, and we have done so for each dividend payment date thus for. On September 15, 2006, we paid the dividend by issuing 36.73 ordinary shares per Series A Preferred Share and 11,020,338 24 Table of Contents ordinary shares in the aggregate to members of the investor group and Everwarm Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of QPL, and issuing 9.97 ordinary shares per Series A Preferred Share and 97,706 ordinary shares in the aggregate to holders of Series A Preferred Shares who subscribed to our rights offering, all in accordance with the terms of our Series A Preferred Shares. On March 15, 2007, we paid the dividend by issuing 26.74 ordinary shares per Series A Preferred Share and 8,021,906 ordinary shares in the aggregate to members of the investor group and Everwarm Limited, and by issuing 26.74 ordinary shares per Series A Preferred Share and 262,025 ordinary shares in the aggregate to holders of Series A Preferred Shares who subscribed to our rights offering, all in accordance with the terms of our Series A Preferred Shares. On September 15, 2007, we paid the dividend by issuing 84.84 ordinary shares per Series A Preferred Share and 25,452,045 ordinary shares in the aggregate to members of the investor group and Everwarm Limited, and issuing 84.84 ordinary shares per Series A Preferred Share and 825,876 ordinary shares in the aggregate to holders of Series A Preferred Shares who subscribed to our rights offering, all in accordance with the terms of our Series A Preferred Shares. Future dividend payments on the Series A Preferred Shares in such shares or our ordinary shares will be dilutive to holders of ordinary shares or ADSs. In addition, if such shareholders sell substantial amounts of their ADSs in the public market during a short period of time, prices of these securities may decline significantly. If we receive other than an unqualified opinion on the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or identify other issues in our internal controls, or if we are unable to deliver accurate and timely financial information, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the market price of our ADSs. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires a public company to include a report of management on the company’s internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports on Form 20-F that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. Because we qualify as a non-accelerated filer under SEC rules and regulations, such report of management will not be required until the end of our fiscal year ended April 30, 2008. In May 2007, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or PCAOB, approved Auditing Standard No. 5 “An Audit of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting That is Integrated with an Audit of Financial Statements,” or Auditing Standard No. 5, which supersedes PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 2 “An Audit of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting Performed in Conjunction with an Audit of Financial Statements.” In the same month, the SEC approved the issuance of interpretive guidance regarding management’s evaluation and assessment of internal control over financial reporting. Under Auditing Standard No. 5, auditors are only required to provide one opinion on the effectiveness on internal controls (i.e., eliminating the requirement for an auditor’s opinion on management assessment). We are currently implementing a number of measures intended to meet the foregoing objectives with respect to internal controls, delivery of financial information, and compliance with Section 404, and we will need to make significant improvements in our internal controls on an ongoing basis to accomplish these objectives. We have had major changes in our financial management, including the resignation of a former Chief Financial Officer in June 2006, former Chief Executive Officer and Acting Chief Financial Officer on September 1, 2006 and former Acting Chief Financial Officer on June 17, 2007. Although we have recently appointed our permanent Chief Financial Officer on June 18, 2007, we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain him. Although we are currently in the process of searching for a permanent Chief Executive Officer, we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain a permanent Chief Executive Officer and this may impact our ongoing efforts to attain compliance with the Section 404 requirements. Significant resources have been, and may continue to be, required to implement and maintain effective controls and procedures in order to remedy control deficiencies. For example, we have hired, and may need to continue to hire, additional employees and outside consultants with accounting and financial reporting expertise and may need to provide further training for our existing employees. If additional personnel are needed, we cannot assure you that we will be able to recruit qualified personnel in a timely and cost-efficient manner to meet our requirements. 25 Table of Contents We are in the process of conducting a comprehensive review of our financial and accounting systems and our internal controls and procedures. We cannot assure you that our ongoing review will not identify additional control deficiencies or that we will be able to implement improvements to our internal controls in a timely manner. If any identified control deficiencies are not remedied or were to reoccur, if we fail to implement improvements in our internal controls in a timely manner, or if we fail to otherwise attain compliance with the Section 404 requirements, our ability to assure timely and accurate financial reporting may be adversely affected. In addition, as a result of these reviews or otherwise, we cannot assure you that we will not need to make adjustments to any current period operating results or to operating results that have been previously publicly announced or otherwise experience an adverse affect on our operating results, financial condition or business. Moreover, if our independent auditors interpret the Section 404 requirements and the related rules and regulations differently from us or if our independent auditors are not satisfied with our internal controls over financial reporting or with the level at which it is documented, tested or monitored, they may issue a qualified opinion. Any of the foregoing could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. Outbreaks of epidemics and communicable diseases in Hong Kong, China and other parts of Asia may disrupt our business operations, causing us to lose customers and revenue. In early calendar year 2003, China, Hong Kong and certain other countries, largely in Asia, experienced the spread of the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS, virus. The SARS virus was believed to have first originated in Southern China and then spread to Hong Kong before becoming an international health concern. The World Health Organization and several countries issued travel warnings against international travel to Hong Kong, China and several other Asian nations during the period of the alert. This severely curtailed customer visits to our facilities. In addition, we have been unable to obtain insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates for business interruptions resulting from the spread of communicable diseases. In that regard, there can be no assurance that the SARS virus and/or a different or even more virulent virus will not make a reappearance in the future. If such an outbreak were to occur in Hong Kong and China, and if the outbreak were to be prolonged, uncontrolled and/or associated with high mortality, our operations could be severely impacted, such as through plant closures and the imposition of other emergency measures, any of which would have material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, any outbreak in any of our premises or manufacturing plants could result in our management and employees being quarantined and our operations being required to be suspended. 26 Table of Contents 