Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are certain of the important risk factors that could cause, or contribute to causing, our actual operating results to differ materially from those indicated, expected or suggested by forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or presented elsewhere by management from time to time. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may become important factors that impair our business operations. Prospective and existing investors are strongly urged to carefully consider the various cautionary statements and risks set forth in this report and other public filings before deciding to purchase, hold or sell our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business Our quarterly revenue and operating results may be subject to significant fluctuations, which may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Although we achieved profitability in 2011, we may in the future incur losses and experience negative cash flow, either or both of which may be significant and may cause our quarterly revenue and operating results to fluctuate significantly. These fluctuations may be as a result of a variety of factors, including the following factors which are in part within our control, and in part outside of our control: • continued adoption by companies doing business online of real-time sales, marketing and customer service solutions; • continued adoption by individual Experts and consumers of online real-time advice services; • changes in our pricing models, policies or the pricing policies of our current and future competitors; • our customers’ business success; • our customers’ demand for our services; • consumer demand for our services; • our ability to attract and retain customers; • the amount and timing of capital expenditures and other costs relating to the expansion of our operations, including those related to acquisitions; and • the introduction of new services by us or our competitors. Our revenue and results may also fluctuate significantly in the future due to the following factors that are entirely outside of our control: • economic conditions specific to the Internet, electronic commerce and online media; and • general economic and political conditions. Period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful because of these factors. You should not rely upon these comparisons as indicators of our future performance. Due to the foregoing factors, it is possible that our results of operations in one or more future quarters may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. If this occurs, the trading price of our common stock could decline. The ongoing global economic downturn may adversely affect our business and results of operations. The U.S. and other global economies have continued to experience an economic downturn that has affected all sectors of the economy, particularly in the financial services and retail industries, resulting in declines in economic growth and consumer confidence, increases in unemployment rates and uncertainty about economic stability. Global credit and financial markets have also experienced extreme disruptions, including diminished liquidity and credit availability and rapid fluctuations in market valuations. Our business has been affected by these conditions, and there is no certainty that economic conditions will not deteriorate further. 11 TABLE OF CONTENTS These uncertainties affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways, making it difficult to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. Weak economic conditions may also cause our customers to experience difficulty in supporting their current operations and implementing their business plans. Our customers may reduce their spending on our services, may not be able to discharge their payment and other obligations to us, may experience difficulty raising capital, or may elect to scale back the resources they devote to customer service and/or sales and marketing technology, including services such as ours. The economic condition may also lead consumers and businesses to continue to postpone spending, which may cause our customers to decrease or delay their purchases of our products and services. If the current economic conditions continue or further deteriorate for us or our customers, we could be required to record charges relating to restructuring costs or the impairment of assets, may not be able to collect receivables on a timely basis, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If we are not competitive in the markets for online sales, marketing and customer service solutions, or online consumer services, our business could be harmed. The markets for online engagement technology and online consumer services are intensely competitive and characterized by aggressive marketing, evolving industry standards, rapid technology developments and frequent new product introductions. Established or new entities may enter the market in the near future, including those that provide solutions for real-time interaction online, or online consumer services related to real-time advice. We compete directly with companies focused on technology that facilitates real-time sales, email management, searchable knowledgebase applications and customer service interaction. These markets remain fairly saturated with small companies that compete on price and features. We face significant competition from online interaction solution providers, including SaaS providers such as RightNow Technologies (recently acquired by Oracle Corporation), Talisma, eGain and TouchCommerce. We also face potential competition from Web analytics and online engagement service providers, and other enterprise software and SaaS solutions companies such as Adobe, Oracle, Google and SAP. In addition, established technology and/or consumer-oriented companies such as Google, Microsoft, Salesforce.com and Yahoo! may leverage their existing relationships and capabilities to offer online engagement solutions that facilitate real-time assistance. Furthermore, many of our competitors offer a broader range of customer relationship management products and services than we currently offer. We may be disadvantaged and our business may be harmed if companies doing business online choose real-time sales, marketing and customer service solutions from such providers. Finally, we compete with customers and potential customers that choose to provide a real-time sales, marketing and customer service solution in-house as well as, to a lesser extent, traditional offline customer service solutions, such as telephone call centers. We believe that competition will increase as our current competitors increase the sophistication of their offerings and as new participants enter the market. As compared to our company, some of our larger current and potential competitors have: • greater brand recognition; • more diversified lines of products and services; and • significantly greater financial, marketing and research and development resources. Additionally, some competitors may enter into strategic or commercial relationships with larger, more established and better-financed companies. These competitors may be able to: • undertake more extensive marketing campaigns; • adopt more aggressive pricing policies; and • make more attractive offers to businesses or individuals to induce them to use their products or services. 12 TABLE OF CONTENTS Any change in the general market acceptance of the real-time sales, marketing and customer service solution business model or in online, real-time consumer advice services may harm our competitive position. Such changes may allow our competitors additional time to improve their service or product offerings, and would also provide time for new competitors to develop real-time sales, marketing, customer service and Web analytics applications or competitive consumer service offerings and solicit prospective customers within our target markets. Increased competition could result in pricing pressures, reduced operating margins and loss of market share. The success of our business is dependent on the retention of existing customers and their purchase of additional services, as well as attracting new customers and consumer users to our consumer services. Our business services agreements typically have twelve month terms. In some cases, our agreements are terminable or may terminate upon 30 to 90 days’ notice without penalty. If a significant number of our customers, or any one client to whom we provide a significant amount of services, were to terminate services, or reduce the amount of services purchased or fail to purchase additional services, our results of operations may be negatively and materially affected. Dissatisfaction with the nature or quality of our services could also lead customers to terminate our service. We depend on monthly fees and interaction-based fees from our services for substantially all of our revenue. If our retention rate declines, our revenue could decline unless we are able to obtain additional customers or alternate revenue sources. Because of the historically small amount of services sold in initial orders, we depend on the growth of our customer base and sales to new customers and sales of additional services to our existing customers. New and developing regulatory or other legal requirements could materially impact our business. We, and our customers, are subject to a number of foreign and domestic laws and regulations that apply to the conduct of business on the Internet such as, but not limited to, laws and regulations relating to user privacy, data privacy, content, advertising, information security and intellectual property rights. We post on our web site our privacy policies and practices concerning the use and disclosure of user data, and we observe data security protocols and other business practices to comply with applicable laws. Interpretation of user privacy and data protection laws, and their application to the Internet in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions is ongoing. There is a risk that these laws may be interpreted and applied differently in any given jurisdiction in a manner that is not consistent with our current practices, which could cause us to incur substantial costs and otherwise negatively impact our business. Various U.S. and foreign jurisdictions impose laws regarding the collection of data. Some U.S. states have enacted legislation designed to protect consumers’ privacy by prohibiting the distribution of “spyware” over the Internet. Such legislation typically focuses on restricting the proliferation of software that, when installed on an end user’s computer is used to intentionally and deceptively take control of the end user’s machine. We do not believe that the data monitoring methods employed by our technology constitute “spyware” or that our data monitoring methods are prohibited by applicable laws. If the scope of this type of legislation were changed to include Web analytics, such legislation could be deemed to apply to the technology we use and could potentially restrict our ability to conduct our business. Domestic and foreign governments are also considering restricting the collection and use of Internet visitor data generally. Some jurisdictions are considering whether the collection of even anonymous data may invade the privacy of Web site visitors. If laws that limit data collection practices are enacted, we and/or our customers may be required to obtain the express consent of web visitors in order for our technology to perform certain of its basic functions that are based on collection of data. Requirements that a website must first obtain consent from its Web visitors before using our technology could reduce the amount and value of the services we provide to customers, which might impede sales and/or cause some existing customers to discontinue using our services. We could also need to expend considerable effort and resources to develop new product features and/or procedures to comply with any such legal requirements. 13 TABLE OF CONTENTS Businesses using our products may collect personal information from their web users when those web users contact them with inquiries. Federal, state and foreign government bodies and agencies, however, have adopted and are considering adopting laws and regulations regarding the collection, use and disclosure of personal information obtained from consumers. When required, we use a variety of data security procedures and practices such as encryption and masking algorithms to comply with applicable regulations, and encourage our customers to do the same. Changes to applicable laws and or interpretation thereof could significantly increase the economic burden to us of such compliance, and could negatively impact our business. European Union members have imposed restrictions on the collection and use of data that are far more stringent, and impose more substantial burdens on subject businesses than current privacy standards in the United States. All of these domestic and international legislative and regulatory initiatives have the potential to adversely affect our customers’ ability to use our products. Proposed regulations regarding cybersecurity and monitoring of online behavioral data such as the proposed “Do Not Track” regulations could potentially apply to some of our current or planned products and services. The FTC has also ratcheted up its enforcement actions against companies that fail to live up to their privacy or data security commitments to consumers. While there are currently many proposals by lawmakers and industry in this area that address the collection, maintenance and use of personal information, Web browsing and geolocation data, and establish data security and breach notification procedures, and several of those proposals, if adopted, would not be expected to materially impact our business, this is an evolving and unsettled area of regulation and any new significant restrictions or technological requirements imposed could have a negative impact on our business. The Digital Millennium Copyright Act has provisions that limit, but do not necessarily eliminate, our liability for third-party content delivered through our website and products. In the U.S., laws relating to the liability of providers of online services for activities of their users and other third parties are currently being tested and could change. Certain foreign jurisdictions are also testing the liability of providers of online services for activities of their users and other third parties. While providers of online services currently are generally not held liable for activities of their third party users, changes in applicable laws imposing liability on providers of online services for activities of their users and other third parties could harm our business. The Child Online Protection Act and the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act restrict the distribution of materials considered harmful to children and impose additional restrictions on the ability of online services to collect information from children under 13. Today, our policies limit use of our consumer-facing site to adults over 18 years of age. In January 2004, the federal Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003, or CAN-SPAM Act, became effective. The CAN-SPAM Act regulates the transmission and content of commercial emails and, among other things, obligates the sender of such emails to provide recipients with the ability to opt-out of receiving future emails from the sender, and establishes penalties for the transmission of email messages which are intended to deceive the recipient as to source or content. Many state legislatures also have adopted laws that impact the delivery of commercial email, and laws that regulate commercial email practices have been enacted in some of the international jurisdictions in which we do business. In addition, Internet service providers and licensors of software products have introduced a variety of systems and products to filter out certain types of commercial email, without any common protocol to determine whether the recipient desired to receive the email being blocked. As a result, it is difficult for us to determine in advance whether or not emails generated by our customers using our solutions will be permitted by spam filters to reach the intended recipients. If our goodwill becomes impaired, we may be required to record a charge to earnings. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., we review our goodwill for impairment at least annually and when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates in our industry. In December 2008, we recorded a $23.5 million impairment charge in connection with the Kasamba Inc. acquisition. From time to time, we may be required to record additional charges to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill is determined, which may negatively impacting our results of operations. 14 TABLE OF CONTENTS We are exposed to currency rate fluctuations and our results of operations may be affected as a result. Although the functional currency of our Israeli subsidiaries is the U.S. dollar, as a result of the expanding scope of our Israeli operations, our currency rate fluctuation risk associated with the exchange rate movement of the U.S. dollar against the New Israeli Shekel has increased. In addition, the functional currency of our operations in the U.K. is the U.K. pound. Conducting business in currencies other than the U.S. dollar subjects us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could adversely affect our results of operations. Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other foreign currencies affect our revenue, cost of revenue and operating expenses, and result in foreign currency transaction gains and losses. Currently, we are not a party to any hedging transactions intended to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations for our international operations. We may seek to enter into hedging transaction in the future, but we may be unable to enter into those transactions successfully, on acceptable terms or at all. We cannot predict whether or not we will incur foreign exchange losses in the future. To the extent the international component of our revenues grows, our results of operations will become more sensitive to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. We could face additional regulatory requirements, tax liabilities, currency exchange rate fluctuations and other risks as we expand internationally and/or as we expand into direct-to-consumer services. In October 2007, we acquired Kasamba Inc., an Israeli-based provider of a platform for online, real-time expert advice. In October 2000, we acquired HumanClick, an Israeli-based provider of real-time online customer service applications. In addition, we have established a sales, marketing and client support presence in the United Kingdom in support of expansion efforts into Western Europe, and have integrated the United Kingdom operations of Proficient Systems into that office. There are risks related to doing business in international markets as well as in the online consumer market, such as changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, more stringent rules relating to the privacy of Internet users and adverse tax consequences. In addition, there are likely to be different consumer preferences and requirements in specific international markets. Furthermore, we may face difficulties in staffing and managing any foreign operations. One or more of these factors could harm any future international operations. We may be unable to respond to the rapid technological change and changing client preferences in the online sales, marketing, customer service, and/or online consumer services industries and this may harm our business. If we are unable, for technological, legal, financial or other reasons, to adapt in a timely manner to changing market conditions in the online sales, marketing, customer service and/or e-commerce industry or our customers’ or Internet users’ requirements or preferences, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. Business on the Internet is characterized by rapid technological change. In addition, the market for online sales, marketing, customer service and expert advice solutions is relatively new. Sudden changes in client and Internet user requirements and preferences, frequent new product and service introductions embodying new technologies, such as broadband communications, and the emergence of new industry standards and practices such as but not limited to security standards could render the LivePerson services and our proprietary technology and systems obsolete. The rapid evolution of these products and services will require that we continually improve the performance, features and reliability of our services. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to: • enhance the features and performance of our services; • develop and offer new services that are valuable to companies doing business online as well as Internet users; and • respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices in a cost-effective and timely manner. If any of our new services, including upgrades to our current services, do not meet our customers’ or Internet users’ expectations, our business may be harmed. Updating our technology may require significant additional capital expenditures and could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 15 TABLE OF CONTENTS If new services require us to grow rapidly, this could place a significant strain on our managerial, operational, technical and financial resources. In order to manage our growth, we could be required to implement new or upgraded operating and financial systems, procedures and controls. Our failure to expand our operations in an efficient manner could cause our expenses to grow, our revenue to decline or grow more slowly than expected and could otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business is significantly dependent on our ability to retain our current key personnel, to attract new personnel, and to manage staff attrition. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued services of our senior management team. The loss of the services of any member of our senior management team could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We cannot assure you that we would be able to successfully recruit and integrate newly-hired senior managers who would work together successfully with our existing management team. We may be unable to attract, integrate or retain other highly qualified employees in the future. If our retention efforts are ineffective, employee turnover could increase and our ability to provide services to our customers would be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, the requirement to expense stock options may discourage us from granting the size or type of stock option awards that job candidates may require to join our company. Any staff attrition we experience, whether initiated by the departing employees or by us, could place a significant strain on our managerial, operational, financial and other resources. To the extent that we do not initiate or seek any staff attrition that occurs, there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify and hire adequate replacement staff promptly, if at all, and even that if such staff is replaced, we will be successful in integrating these employees. In addition, we may not be able to outsource certain functions. We expect to evaluate our needs and the performance of our staff on a periodic basis, and may choose to make adjustments in the future. If the size of our staff is significantly reduced, either by our choice or otherwise, it may become more difficult for us to manage existing, or establish new, relationships with customers and other counter-parties, or to expand and improve our service offerings. It may also become more difficult for us to implement changes to our business plan or to respond promptly to opportunities in the marketplace. Further, it may become more difficult for us to devote personnel resources necessary to maintain or improve existing systems, including our financial and managerial controls, billing systems, reporting systems and procedures. Thus, any significant amount of staff attrition could cause our business and financial results to suffer. We may be unsuccessful in expanding our operations internationally, which could adversely affect our results of operations. During the past decade, we have completed acquisitions outside the United States. We have also continued to invest in expansion of operations in the United Kingdom, Europe, Israel and the Asia-Pacific region. Our ability to continue our international expansion involves various risks, including the possibility that returns on such investments will not be achieved in the near future, or ever, and the difficulty of competing in markets with which we are unfamiliar. Our international operations may also fail due to other risks inherent in foreign operations, including: • varied, unfamiliar and unclear legal and regulatory restrictions, including different legal and regulatory standards applicable to Internet services, communications, privacy, and data protection; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • differing intellectual property laws that may not provide sufficient protection for our intellectual property; • adverse tax consequences; • difficulty in addressing country-specific business requirements and regulations; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS • strains on financial and other systems to properly administer VAT and other taxes; and • legal, political or systemic restrictions on the ability of U.S. companies to do business in foreign countries. Our current and any future international expansion plans will require management attention and resources and may be unsuccessful. We may find it impossible or prohibitively expensive to continue expand internationally or we may be unsuccessful in our attempt to do so, and our results of operations could be adversely impacted. If we do not successfully integrate past or potential future acquisitions, our business could adversely impacted. We have made several acquisitions during the past decade. In April 2010, we acquired NuConomy Ltd., an Israeli-based development-stage company. In October 2007, we acquired Kasamba Inc., an Israeli-based provider of a platform for online, real-time expert advice. In July 2006, we acquired Proficient Systems, Inc., a U.S. provider of hosted proactive chat solutions that help companies generate revenue on their websites. In the future, we may acquire or invest in complementary companies, products or technologies. Acquisitions and investments involve numerous risks to us, including: • difficulties in integrating operations, technologies, products and personnel with LivePerson; • diversion of financial and management resources from efforts related to the LivePerson services or other pre-existing operations; • risks of entering new markets beyond providing real-time sales, marketing and customer service solutions for companies doing business online; • potential loss of either our existing key employees or key employees of any companies we acquire; and • our inability to generate sufficient revenue following an acquisition to offset acquisition or investment costs. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, expose us to unexpected costs, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses and adversely affect our results of operations. Furthermore, we may incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisitions. The issuance of equity securities could be dilutive to our existing stockholders. We are dependent on technology systems and third-party content that are beyond our control. The success of our services depends in part on our customers’ online services as well as the Internet connections of visitors to websites, both of which are outside of our control. As a result, it may be difficult to identify the source of problems if they occur. In the past, we have experienced problems related to connectivity which has resulted in slower than normal response times to Internet user chat requests and messages and interruptions in service. Our services rely both on the Internet and on our connectivity vendors for data transmission. Therefore, even when connectivity problems are not caused by our services, our customers or Internet users may attribute the problem to us. This could diminish our brand and harm our business, divert the attention of our technical personnel from our product development efforts or cause significant client relations problems. In addition, we rely in part on third-party service providers and other third parties for Internet connectivity and network infrastructure hosting, security and maintenance. These providers may experience problems that result in slower than normal response times and/or interruptions in service. If we are unable to continue utilizing the third-party services that support our Web hosting and infrastructure or if our services experience interruptions or delays due to third party providers, our reputation and business could be harmed. 17 TABLE OF CONTENTS We also rely on the security of our third party providers to protect our proprietary information and information of our customers. Information technology system failures, including a breach of our or our third party providers’ data security, could disrupt our ability to function in the normal course of business by potentially causing, among other things, an unintentional disclosure of customer our information. Additionally, despite our security procedures or those of our third party providers, information systems may be vulnerable to threats such as computer hacking, cyber-terrorism or other unauthorized attempts by third parties to access, modify or delete our or our customers’ personal information. Any such breach could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and our reputation as a provider of business collaboration and communications solutions. We also depend on third parties for hardware and software and our consumer services depend on third parties for content. Such products and content could contain defects or inaccurate information. Problems arising from our use of such hardware or software or third party content could require us to incur significant costs or divert the attention of our technical or other personnel from our product development efforts or to manage issues related to content. To the extent any such problems require us to replace such hardware or software we may not be able to do so on acceptable terms, if at all. Failures or breaches in our services, those of our third party providers, or in the websites of our customers, including those resulting from security vulnerabilities, defects or errors, could harm our business. While we continue to expand our focus on this issue and are taking measures to safeguard our services from cybersecurity threats, device capabilities continue to evolve, enabling more data and processes, such as mobile computing, potentially increasing the risk that security failures will occur are increasing. Our products are inherently complex and may contain defects or errors that are detected only when the products are in use. Because our services are responsible for critical communication between our customers and consumers, security failures, defects or errors in our components, materials or software or those used by our customers could have an adverse impact on us, on our customers and on the end users of their websites. Such adverse impact could include a decrease in demand for our services, damage to our reputation and to our customer relationships, and other financial liability or harm to our business. Privacy concerns relating to the Internet could result in new legislation, negative public perception and/or user behavior that negatively affect our business. We collect data from live online Internet user dialogues and enable our customers to capture and save information about their Internet user interactions. To the extent that additional legislation regarding Internet user privacy is enacted, such as legislation governing the collection and use of information regarding Internet users through the use of cookies, the effectiveness of the LivePerson services could be impaired by restricting us from collecting information which may be valuable to our customers. The foregoing could have a material adverse effect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, privacy concerns may cause Internet users to avoid online sites that collect such behavioral information and even the perception of security and privacy concerns, whether or not valid, may indirectly inhibit market acceptance of our services. In addition, we or our customers may be harmed by any laws or regulations that restrict the ability to collect, transmit or use this data. The European Union and many countries within the E.U. have adopted privacy directives or laws that strictly regulate the collection and use of personally identifiable information of Internet users. The United States has also adopted legislation which governs the collection and use of certain personal information, such as the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act which directs the U.S. Federal Trade Commission to regulate the collection of data from children on commercial websites. The U.S. Federal Trade Commission has also taken action against website operators who do not comply with their stated privacy policies. Furthermore, other foreign jurisdictions have adopted legislation governing the collection and use of personal information. These and other governmental efforts may limit our customers’ ability to collect and use information about their interactions with their Internet users through our services. As a result, such laws and efforts could create uncertainty in the marketplace that could reduce demand for our services or increase the cost of doing business as a result of litigation costs or increased service delivery costs, or could in some other manner have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS We may be liable if third parties misappropriate personal information belonging to our customers’ Internet users. The dialogue transcripts of the text-based chats and email interactions between our customers and Internet users may include personal information, such as contact and demographic information. Although we employ and continually test and update our security measures to protect this information from unauthorized access, it is still possible that our security measures could be breached and such a breach could result in unauthorized access to our customers’ data or our data, including our intellectual property and other confidential business information. Because the techniques employed by hackers to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and are becoming more sophisticated, we may be unable to anticipate all techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Any security breach could result in disclosure of our trade secrets or disclosure of confidential customer, supplier or employee data. If third parties were able to penetrate our network security or otherwise misappropriate personal information relating to our customers’ Internet users or the text of customer service inquiries, our competitive position may be harmed and we could be subject to liability. We could be subject to negligence claims or claims for misuse of personal information. These claims could result in litigation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may incur significant costs to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. The need to physically secure and securely transmit confidential information online has been a significant barrier to e-commerce and online communications. Any well-publicized compromise of security could deter people from using online services such as the ones we offer or from using them to conduct transactions, which involve transmitting confidential information. Because our success depends on the general acceptance of our services and electronic commerce, we may incur significant costs to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. We may be subject to legal liability and/or negative publicity for the services provided to consumers via our technology platforms. Our technology platforms enable representatives of our customers as well as individual service providers to communicate with consumers and other persons seeking information or advice on the Internet. The law relating to the liability of online platform providers such as us for the activities of users of their online platforms is often challenged in the U.S. and internationally. We may be unable to prevent users of our technology platforms from providing negligent, unlawful or inappropriate advice, information or content via our technology platforms, or from behaving in an unlawful manner, and we may be subject to allegations of civil or criminal liability for negligent, fraudulent, unlawful or inappropriate activities carried out by users of our technology platforms. Claims could be made against online services companies under both U.S. and foreign law such as fraud, defamation, libel, invasion of privacy, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, or other theories based on the nature and content of the materials disseminated by users of our technology platforms. In addition, domestic and foreign legislation has been proposed that could prohibit or impose liability for the transmission over the Internet of certain types of information. Our defense of any of these actions could be costly and involve significant time and attention of our management and other resources. The Digital Millennium Copyright Act, or DMCA, is intended, among other things, to reduce the liability of online service providers for listing or linking to third party Web properties that include materials that infringe copyrights or rights of others. Additionally, portions of The Communications Decency Act, or CDA, are intended to provide statutory protections to online service providers who distribute third party content. A safe harbor for copyright infringement is also available under the DMCA to certain online service providers that provide specific services, if the providers take certain affirmative steps as set forth in the DMCA. Important questions regarding the safe harbor under the DMCA and the CDA have yet to be litigated, and we cannot guarantee that we will meet the safe harbor requirements of the DMCA or of the CDA. If we are not covered by a safe harbor, for any reason, we could be exposed to claims, which could be costly and time-consuming to defend. 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our consumer service allows consumers to provide feedback regarding service providers. Although all such feedback is generated by users and not by us, claims of defamation or other injury could be made against us for content posted on our websites. Our liability for such claims may be higher in jurisdictions outside the U.S. where laws governing Internet transactions are unsettled. If we become liable for information provided by our users and carried via our service in any jurisdiction in which we operate, we could be directly harmed and we may be forced to implement new measures to reduce our exposure to this liability. In addition, the increased attention focused upon liability issues as a result of these lawsuits and legislative proposals could harm our reputation or otherwise impact the growth of our business. Any costs incurred as a result of this potential liability could harm our business. In addition, negative publicity and user sentiment generated as a result of fraudulent or deceptive conduct by users of our technology platforms could damage our reputation, reduce our ability to attract new users or retain our current users, and diminish the value of our brand. In the future, we may be required to spend substantial resources to take additional protective measures or discontinue certain service offerings, either of which could harm our business. Any costs incurred as a result of potential liability relating to the sale of unlawful services or the unlawful sale of services could harm our business. In addition to privacy legislation, any new legislation or regulation regarding the Internet, software sales or export and/or the Software-as-a-Service industry, and/or the application of existing laws and regulations to the Internet, software sales or export, and/or the Software-as-a-Service industry could create new legal or regulatory burdens on our business that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, as we operate outside the U.S., the international regulatory environment relating to the Internet, software sales or export, and/or the Software-as-a-Service industry could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our products and services may infringe upon intellectual property rights of third parties and any infringement could require us to incur substantial costs and may distract our management. We are subject to the risk of claims alleging infringement of third-party proprietary rights against us or against our customers for use of our products. Certain of our customer contracts contain indemnification obligations requiring us to indemnify our customers from certain claims arising from the use of our services. Substantial litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in the software industry. In the ordinary course of our business, our services and/or our customers’ use of our services may be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as claims by non-practicing entities become more prevalent and the number of competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of services in different industry segments overlaps. Some of our competitors in the market for real-time sales, marketing and customer service solutions or other third parties may have filed or may intend to file patent applications covering aspects of their technology. Any claims alleging infringement of third-party intellectual property rights could require us to spend significant amounts in litigation (even if the claim is invalid), distract management from other tasks of operating our business, pay substantial damage awards, prevent us from selling our products, delay delivery of the LivePerson services, develop non-infringing software, technology, business processes, systems or other intellectual property (none of which might be successful), or limit our ability to use the intellectual property that is the subject of any of these claims, unless we enter into license agreements with the third parties (which may be costly, unavailable on commercially reasonable terms, or not available at all). Therefore, such claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business and prospects would suffer if we are unable to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights. Our success and ability to compete depend, in part, upon the protection of our intellectual property rights relating to the technology underlying the LivePerson services. It is possible that: • any issued patent or patents issued in the future may not be broad enough to protect our intellectual property rights; 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS • any issued patent or any patents issued in the future could be successfully challenged by one or more third parties, which could result in our loss of the right to prevent others from exploiting the inventions claimed in the patents; • current and future competitors may independently develop similar technologies, duplicate our services or design around any patents we may have; and • effective patent protection may not be available in every country in which we do business, where our services are sold or used, where the laws may not protect proprietary rights as fully as do the laws of the U.S. or where enforcement of laws protecting proprietary rights is not common or effective. Further, to the extent that the invention described in any U.S. patent was made public prior to the filing of the patent application, we may not be able to obtain patent protection in certain foreign countries. We also rely upon copyright, trade secret, trademark and other common law in the U.S. and other jurisdictions, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions, to protect our proprietary technology, processes and other intellectual property. Any steps we might take may not be adequate to protect against infringement and misappropriation of our intellectual property by third parties. Similarly, third parties may be able to independently develop similar or superior technology, processes or other intellectual property. Policing unauthorized use of our services and intellectual property rights is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation of our technology or intellectual property rights, particularly in foreign countries where we do business, where our services are sold or used, where the laws may not protect proprietary rights as fully as do the laws of the United States or where enforcement of laws protecting proprietary rights is not common or effective. The unauthorized reproduction or other misappropriation of our intellectual property rights could enable third parties to benefit from our technology without paying us for it. If this occurs, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, disputes concerning the ownership or rights to use intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming to litigate, may distract management from operating our business and may result in our loss of significant rights. Technological or other defects could disrupt or negatively impact our services, which could harm our business and reputation. We face risks related to the technological capabilities of our services. We expect the number of interactions between our customers’ operators and Internet users over our system to increase significantly as we expand our client base. Our network hardware and software may not be able to accommodate this additional volume. Additionally, we must continually upgrade our software to improve the features and functionality of our services in order to be competitive in our markets. If future versions of our software contain undetected errors, our business could be harmed. If third-party content is flawed, our business could be harmed. As a result of major software upgrades at LivePerson, our client sites have, from time to time, experienced slower than normal response times and interruptions in service. If we experience system failures or degraded response times, our reputation and brand could be harmed. We may also experience technical problems in the process of installing and initiating the LivePerson services on new Web hosting services. These problems, if not remedied, could harm our business. Our services also depend on complex software which may contain defects, particularly when we introduce new versions onto our servers. We may not discover software defects that affect our new or current services or enhancements until after they are deployed. It is possible that, despite testing by us, defects may occur in the software. These defects could result in: • damage to our reputation; • lost sales; • delays in or loss of market acceptance of our products; and • unexpected expenses and diversion of resources to remedy errors. 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS The non-payment or late payment of amounts due to us from a significant number of customers may negatively impact our financial condition or make it difficult to forecast our revenues accurately. During 2011, we increased our allowance for doubtful accounts by $290,000 to approximately $851,000, principally due to an increase in accounts receivable as a result of increased sales and, to a lesser extent, to an increase in the proportion of receivables due from customers with greater credit risk. We wrote off approximately $163,000 of previously reserved accounts, leaving a net allowance for doubtful accounts of approximately $688,000. A larger proportion of receivables are due from larger corporate customers that typically have longer payment cycles. During 2010, we increased our allowance for doubtful accounts by $166,000 to approximately $561,000, principally due to an increase in accounts receivable as a result of increased sales and, to a lesser extent, to an increase in the proportion of receivables due from customers with greater credit risk. As a result of increasingly long payment cycles, we have faced increased difficulty in predicting our operating results for any given period, and have experienced significant unanticipated fluctuations in our revenues from period to period. Any failure to achieve anticipated revenues in a period could cause our stock price to decline. Our services are subject to payment-related risks. For certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating costs and lower our profit margins. We rely on third parties to provide payment processing services, including the processing of credit cards, debit cards and it could disrupt our business if these companies become unwilling or unable to provide these services to us. We are also subject to payment card association operating rules, certification requirements and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. If we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, we may be subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept credit and debit card payments from our customers or facilitate other types of online payments, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Through our consumer-facing platform, we facilitate online transactions between individual service providers who provide online advice and information to consumers. In connection with these services, we accept payments using a variety of methods, such as credit card, debit card and PayPal. These payments are subject to “chargebacks” when consumers dispute payments they have made to us. Chargebacks can occur whether or not services were properly provided. Susceptibility to chargebacks puts a portion of our revenue at risk. We take measures to manage our risk relative to chargebacks and to recoup properly charged fees, however, if we are unable to successfully manage this risk our business and operating results could be adversely affected. As we offer new payment options to our users, we may be subject to additional regulations, compliance requirements, and fraud. We are also subject to a number of other laws and regulations relating to money laundering, international money transfers, privacy and information security and electronic fund transfers. If we were found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties or forced to cease our payments services business. We have a history of losses, we had an accumulated deficit of $88.1 million as of December 31, 2011 and we may incur losses in the future. Although we achieved profitability in 2011, we may, in the future, incur losses and experience negative cash flow, either or both of which may be significant. We recorded net losses from inception through the year ended December 31, 2003. We recorded net income for the years ended December 31, 2004 through 2007 and 2009 through 2011. We recorded a net loss of $23.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. As of December 31, 2011, our accumulated deficit was approximately $88.1 million. We cannot assure you that we can sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. Failure to maintain profitability may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 22 TABLE OF CONTENTS With the recent volatility in the capital markets, there is a risk that we could suffer a loss of principal in our cash and cash equivalents and short term investments and suffer a reduction in our interest income or in our return on investments. As of December 31, 2011, we had $93.3 million in cash and cash equivalents. We regularly invest excess funds from our cash and cash equivalents in short-term money market funds. We currently hold no mortgaged-backed or auction rate securities. However, some of our investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by the ongoing uncertainty in the U.S. and global credit markets that have affected various sectors of the financial markets and caused global credit and liquidity issues. In the future, these market risks associated with our investment portfolio may harm the results of our operations, liquidity and financial condition. Although we believe we have chosen a more cautious portfolio designed to preserve our existing cash position, it may not adequately protect the value of our investments. Furthermore, this more cautious portfolio is unlikely to provide us with any significant interest income in the near term. We cannot assure our stockholders that our current or future stock repurchase programs will enhance/has enhanced long-term stockholder value and stock repurchases could increase the volatility of the price of our common stock and will diminish our cash reserves. On May 14, 2010, our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program through June 30, 2012. Under the program, we are authorized to repurchase shares of our common stock, in the open market or privately negotiated transactions, at times and prices considered appropriate by them depending upon prevailing market conditions and other corporate considerations, up to an aggregate purchase price of $10.0 million. The timing and actual number of shares repurchased depend on a variety of factors including the timing of open trading windows, price, corporate and regulatory requirements, and other market conditions. The program may be suspended or discontinued at any time without prior notice. Repurchases pursuant to our stock repurchase program could affect our stock price and increase its volatility. The existence of a stock repurchase program could also cause our stock price to be higher than it would be in the absence of such a program and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for our stock. Additionally, our stock repurchase program will diminish our cash reserves, which could impact our ability to pursue possible future strategic opportunities and acquisitions and could result in lower overall returns on our cash balances. There can be no assurance that any stock repurchases will enhance stockholder value because the market price of our common stock may decline below the levels at which we repurchased shares of stock. Although our stock repurchase program is intended to enhance long-term stockholder value, short-term stock price fluctuations could reduce the program’s effectiveness. As of March 1, 2012, approximately $6.4 million remained available for purchases under the program. Failure to license necessary third party software for use in our products and services, or failure to successfully integrate third party software, could cause delays or reductions in our sales, or errors or failures of our service. We license third party software that we plan to incorporate into our products and services. In the future, we might need to license other software to enhance our products and meet evolving customer requirements. These licenses may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Some of this technology could be difficult to replace once integrated. The loss of, or inability to obtain, these licenses could result in delays or reductions of our applications until we identify, license and integrate or develop equivalent software, and new licenses could require us to pay higher royalties. If we are unable to successfully license and integrate third party technology, we could experience a reduction in functionality and/or errors or failures of our products, which may reduce demand for our products and services. Third-party licenses may expose us to increased risks, including risks associated with the integration of new technology, the impact of new technology integration on our existing technology, the diversion of resources from the development of our own proprietary technology, and our inability to generate revenue from new technology sufficient to offset associated acquisition and maintenance costs. 23 TABLE OF CONTENTS We believe our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. are subject to interpretation by the FASB, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC, and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. Our reputation depends, in part, on factors which are partially or entirely outside of our control. Our services typically appear under the LivePerson brand or as a LivePerson-branded icon on our customers’ websites. The customer service operators who respond to the inquiries of our customers’ Internet users are employees or agents of our customers; they are not our employees. The experts who respond to the inquiries of Internet users are independent consultants or agents of our customers; they are not our employees. As a result, we are not able to control the actions of these operators or experts. In addition, an Internet user may not know that the operator or expert is not a LivePerson employee. If an Internet user were to have a negative experience in a LivePerson-powered real-time dialogue, it is possible that this experience could be attributed to us, which could diminish our brand and harm our business. Finally, we believe the success of our business services is aided by the prominent placement of the chat icon on a customer’s website, over which we also have no control. Our products are complex, and errors, failures or “bugs” may be difficult to correct. Our products are complex, integrating hardware, software and elements of a customers’ existing infrastructure. Despite quality assurance testing conducted prior to the release of our products our software may contain “bugs” that are difficult to detect and fix. Any such issues could interfere with the expected operation of a solution, which might negatively impact customer satisfaction, reduce sales opportunities or affect gross margins. Depending upon the size and scope of any such issue, remediation may have a negative impact on our business. Our inability to cure an application or product defect, should one occur, could result in the failure of an application or product line, damage to our reputation, litigation and/or product reengineering expenses. Our insurance may not cover or may be insufficient to cover expenses associated with such events. Political, economic and military conditions in Israel could negatively impact our Israeli operations Our product development staff, help desk and online sales support operations are located in Israel. As of December 31, 2011, we had 290 full-time employees in Israel. Although substantially all of our sales to date have been made to customers outside Israel, we are directly influenced by the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors. A state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has caused security and economic problems in Israel. Since September 2000, there has been a marked increase in violence, civil unrest and hostility, including armed clashes, between the State of Israel and the Palestinians, primarily but not exclusively in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, and negotiations between the State of Israel and Palestinian representatives have effectively ceased. The election of representatives of the Hamas movement to a majority of seats in the Palestinian Legislative Council in January 2006 created additional unrest and uncertainty in the region. In July and August of 2006, Israel was involved in a full-scale armed conflict with Hezbollah, a Lebanese Islamist Shiite militia group and political party, in southern Lebanon, which involved missile strikes against civilian targets in northern Israel that resulted in economic losses. Since June 2007, there has been an escalation in violence in the Gaza Strip. In December 2008 and January 2009, Israel engaged in an armed conflict with Hamas, which involved civilian targets in various parts of Israel and negatively affected business conditions in Israel. Recent popular uprisings in various countries in the Middle East and northern Africa are affecting the political stability of those countries. This instability may lead to deterioration of the political and trade relationships that exist between the State of Israel and these countries, as well as potentially affecting the global economy and marketplace through changes in oil and gas prices. In addition, Iran has publicly threatened to attack Israel and is widely believed to be developing nuclear weapons. Iran is also believed to have a strong influence among extremist groups in the region, such 24 TABLE OF CONTENTS as Hamas in Gaza and Hezbollah in Lebanon. This situation may potentially escalate in the future to violent events which may negatively affect Israel. Continued hostilities between Israel and its neighbors and any future armed conflict, terrorist activity or political instability in the region could adversely affect our operations in Israel and adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. Further escalation of tensions or violence might require more widespread military reserve service by some of our Israeli employees and might result in a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations in Israel and our business. In addition, several Arab countries still restrict business with Israeli companies. Our operations in Israel could be adversely affected by restrictive laws or policies directed towards Israel and Israeli businesses. Capital needs necessary to execute our business strategy could increase substantially and we may not be able to secure additional financing to execute this strategy. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents and cash generated from operations, if any, will be sufficient to fund our working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next twelve months. To the extent that we require additional funds to support our operations or the expansion of our business, or to pay for acquisitions, we may need to sell additional equity, issue debt or convertible securities or obtain credit facilities through financial institutions. In the past, we have obtained financing principally through the sale of preferred stock, common stock and warrants. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of debt or preferred equity securities, these securities could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to holders of common stock, and could have terms that impose restrictions on our operations. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of additional equity or convertible securities, our stockholders could suffer dilution. We cannot assure you that additional funding, if required, will be available to us in amounts or on terms acceptable to us. If sufficient funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, our ability to fund any potential expansion, take advantage of acquisition opportunities, develop or enhance our services or products, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. Those limitations would materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Industry Future regulation of the Internet may slow our growth, resulting in decreased demand for our services and increased costs of doing business. State, federal and foreign regulators could adopt laws and regulations that impose additional burdens on companies that conduct business online. These laws and regulations could discourage communication by e-mail or other web-based communications, particularly targeted e-mail of the type facilitated by our services, which could reduce demand for our services. The growth and development of the market for online services may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws or laws that may inhibit the use of Internet-based communications or the information contained in these communications. The adoption of any additional laws or regulations may decrease the expansion of the Internet. A decline in the growth of the Internet, particularly as it relates to online communication, could decrease demand for our services and increase our costs of doing business, or otherwise harm our business. Any new legislation or regulations, application of laws and regulations from jurisdictions whose laws do not currently apply to our business, or application of existing laws and regulations to the Internet and other online services could increase our costs and harm our growth. We depend on the continued viability of the infrastructure of the Internet. To the extent that the Internet continues to experience growth in the number of users and frequency of use by consumers resulting in increased bandwidth demands, we cannot assure you that the infrastructure for the Internet will be able to support the demands placed upon it. The Internet has experienced outages and delays as a result of damage to portions of its infrastructure. Outages or delays could adversely affect online sites, email and the level of traffic on the Internet. We also depend on Internet service providers that provide our customers and Internet users with access to the LivePerson services. In the past, users have experienced difficulties due to system failures unrelated to our service. In addition, the Internet could lose its viability due to delays in the adoption of new standards and protocols required to handle increased levels of Internet 25 TABLE OF CONTENTS activity. Insufficient availability of telecommunications services to support the Internet also could result in slower response times and negatively impact use of the Internet generally, and our customers’ sites (including the LivePerson dialogue windows) in particular. If the infrastructure of the Internet does not effectively support the growth of the Internet, we may not maintain profitability and our business, results of operations and financial condition will suffer. We are dependent on the continued growth and acceptance of the Internet as a medium for commerce, and the related expansion of the Internet infrastructure. We cannot be sure that a sufficiently broad base of consumers will continue to use the Internet as a medium for commerce. Convincing our customers to offer real-time sales, marketing and customer service technology may be difficult. The continuation of the Internet as a viable commercial marketplace is subject to a number of factors, including: • continued growth in the number of users; • concerns about transaction security or security problems such as “viruses” and “worms” or hackers; • concerns about cybersecurity attacks or the security of confidential information online; • continued development of the necessary technological infrastructure; • development of enabling technologies; • uncertain and increasing government regulation; and • the development of complementary services and products. Other Risks Our stock price has been highly volatile and may experience extreme price and volume fluctuations in the future, which could reduce the value of your investment and subject us to litigation. Fluctuations in market price and volume are particularly common among securities of Internet and other technology companies. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and may continue to be highly volatile, with extreme price and volume fluctuations, in response to the following factors, some of which are beyond our control: • variations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in market valuations of publicly-traded companies in general and Internet and other technology companies in particular; • our announcements of significant client contracts, acquisitions and our ability to integrate these acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • our failure to complete significant sales; • additions or departures of key personnel; • future sales of our common stock; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; and • terrorist attacks against the United States, in Israel, or in the United Kingdom, the engagement in hostilities or an escalation of hostilities by or against the United States, Israel, or the United Kingdom, or the declaration of war or national emergency by the United States, Israel, or the United Kingdom. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the subject of securities class action litigation. We may in the future be the target of similar litigation, which could result in substantial costs and distract management from other important aspects of operating our business. 26 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our common stock is traded on more than one market and this may result in price variations. Shares of our common stock are currently traded on the Nasdaq Capital Market and the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange (“TASE”). Trading in our common stock on these markets takes place in different currencies (U.S. dollars on the Nasdaq and NIS on the TASE), and at different times (resulting from different time zones, different trading days and different public holidays in the United States and Israel). The trading prices of our common stock on these two markets may differ due to these and other factors. Any decrease in the trading price of our common stock on one of these markets could cause a decrease in the trading price of our common stock on the other market. Differences in trading prices on the two markets could negatively impact our trading price. Our stockholders who each own greater than five percent of the outstanding common stock and our named executive officers and directors will be able to influence matters requiring a stockholder vote. Our stockholders who each own greater than five percent of the outstanding common stock and their affiliates, and our named executive officers and directors, in the aggregate, and as of December 31, 2011, beneficially own approximately 41% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, if acting together, will be able to significantly influence all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership could also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. The future sale of shares of our common stock may negatively affect our stock price. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock, including shares issuable upon the exercise of outstanding options and warrants in the public market, or if our stockholders are perceived by the market as intending to sell substantial amounts of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could fall. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. No prediction can be made as to the effect, if any, that market sales of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may make it difficult for a third party to acquire us. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, such as our staggered Board of Directors, the manner in which director vacancies may be filled and provisions regarding the calling of stockholder meetings, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders. In addition, provisions of our amended and restated bylaws, such as advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals, and applicable provisions of Delaware law, such as the application of business combination limitations, could impose similar difficulties. Further, provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation relating to directors, stockholder meetings, limitation of director liability, indemnification and amendment of the certificate of incorporation and bylaws may not be amended without the affirmative vote of not less than 66.67% of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (considered for this purpose as a single class) cast at a meeting of our stockholders called for that purpose. Our amended and restated bylaws may not be amended without the affirmative vote of at least 66.67% of our Board of Directors or without the affirmative vote of not less than 66.67% of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (considered for this purpose as a single class) cast at a meeting of our stockholders called for that purpose. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 