Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may adversely impact our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related To Our Business in General We may not successfully enhance existing or develop new products and services in a cost-effective manner to meet customer demand in the rapidly evolving market for Internet, wireless and IP-based voice communications services, including new products and services offered in connection with our voice and municipal broadband network growth initiatives, and we expect these growth initiatives not to be profitable in their early stages. The market for Internet and telecommunications services is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, changes in customer needs and frequent new service and product introductions. We are currently focused on utilizing IP-based technologies to deliver voice services and deploying wireless networks to deliver broadband services, among others. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to use leading technologies effectively, to continue to develop our technical expertise, to enhance our existing services and to develop new services that meet changing customer needs on a timely and cost-effective basis. We may not be able to adapt quickly enough to changing technology, customer requirements and industry standards. If we fail to use new technologies effectively, to develop our technical expertise and new services, or to enhance existing services on a timely basis, either internally or through arrangements with third parties, our product and service offerings may fail to meet customer needs which would adversely affect our revenues and prospects for growth. We have spent and will continue to spend significant resources enhancing our existing services and developing, acquiring, implementing and launching new services, such as voice services and wireless broadband services. We believe IP-based voice services and wireless broadband services represent significant growth opportunities and may require significant investment. These investments consist of initial product development and infrastructure costs, followed by sales and marketing costs to add customers who generate recurring revenues. The operating models for these services are similar to the ISP operating model upon which we have based our current core operations. Specifically, after developing an infrastructure to support the offering, we plan to invest in sales and marketing to add customers who generate recurring revenues, while incurring customer support and telecommunications costs to provide the services. Losses are expected to result in the early stages of these products’ life cycles until a sufficient amount of customers are added whose recurring revenues, net of recurring costs, more than offset sales and marketing expenses incurred to add additional customers. Our service offerings may fail to be competitive with existing and new competitors. Competition for our Internet Access Services The Internet services market is extremely competitive. Current and prospective competitors include many large companies that have substantially greater market presence and greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have. We compete directly or indirectly with the following categories of companies: · established online services companies, such as Time Warner (AOL) and the Microsoft Network (MSN); · local and regional ISPs; 15 · free or value-priced ISPs such as United Online; · national telecommunications companies, such as AT&T and Verizon Communications Inc.; · regional Bell operating companies, such as Qwest; · content companies, such as Yahoo! and Google, who have expanded their service offerings; · cable companies providing broadband access, including Comcast, Charter Communications, Inc. and Cox Communications, Inc.; · local and long distance telephone companies; · municipalities and other entities operating municipal wireless networks, some of which are free or subsidized; · wireless Internet service providers using licensed or unlicensed spectrum; · satellite and fixed wireless service providers offering or developing broadband Internet connectivity; · electric utilities and other providers offering or planning to offer broadband Internet connectivity over power lines; and · resellers providing wireless Internet or other wireless services using infrastructure developed and operated by others. Competition is likely to continue increasing, particularly as large diversified telecommunications and media companies continue to provide ISP services. Diversified competitors may continue to bundle other content, services and products with Internet access services, potentially placing us at a significant competitive disadvantage. The ability to bundle services, as well as the financial strength and the benefits of scale enjoyed by certain of these competitors, may enable them to offer services at prices that are below the prices at which we can offer comparable services. If we cannot compete effectively with these service providers, our revenues and growth may be adversely affected. Because we operate in a highly competitive environment, the number of subscribers we are able to add may decline, the cost of acquiring new subscribers through our own sales and marketing efforts may increase, and/or churn may increase. Increased churn rates indicate more customers are discontinuing services which results in a decrease in our customer base and adversely impacts revenues. Competition in the Telephony Market The market for VoIP services is emerging, intensely competitive, and characterized by rapid technological change. Many traditional telecommunications carriers and cable providers offer, or have indicated that they plan to offer, VoIP services that compete with the services we provide. Competitors for our VoIP services include established telecommunications and cable companies; Internet access companies including AOL and MSN; leading Internet companies including Yahoo!, eBay and Google; and companies that offer VoIP-based services as their primary business, such as Vonage. In addition, some competitors, such as telecommunications carriers and cable providers, may be able to bundle services and products that we do not offer with VoIP telephony services. These services could include various forms of wireless communications, voice and data services, and video services. This form of bundling would put us at a competitive disadvantage if these providers can combine a variety of service offerings at a single attractive price. We can provide no assurance that our VoIP services will achieve significant consumer adoption or, even if such services do achieve consumer adoption, that our VoIP services will generate growth in subscribers or revenues. 16 Many of our current and potential competitors for VoIP services have longer operating histories, are substantially larger, and have greater financial, marketing, technical, and other resources. Many also have greater name recognition and a larger installed base of customers than us. Because of their greater resources, many current and potential competitors may be able to lower their prices substantially, which could eliminate our ability to offer price-competitive services. As a result, our VoIP customer base and revenues would be adversely affected. Competition for Other Services We compete for advertising revenues with major ISPs, content providers, large web publishers, web search engine and portal companies, Internet advertising providers, content aggregation companies, social-networking web sites, and various other companies that facilitate Internet advertising. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger user bases and significantly greater financial and sales and marketing resources than us. This may allow them to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of advertising services. The companies we compete with for Internet access subscribers also compete with us for subscribers to value-added services, such as email storage and security products. In certain cases, companies offer value-added services for free, and we can provide no assurance that our offerings will remain competitive or commercially viable. While the personal web hosting business is fragmented, a number of significant companies, including Yahoo!, currently compete actively for these users. In addition, the personal web hosting industry is very application specific, with many of the competitors focusing on specific applications, such as photo sharing, to generate additional users. We can provide no assurance that any of these value-added services will remain competitive or will generate customer and revenue growth. Competitive product, price or marketing pressures could cause us to lose existing customers to competitors (churn), or may cause us to reduce prices for our services which could adversely impact average revenue per user. Competition impacts our ability to price our services and retain customers. As the market for Internet access remains competitive, some providers have reduced and may continue to reduce the retail price of their Internet services to maintain or increase their market share, which would cause us to reduce, or prevent us from raising, our prices and potentially causing our subscriber base to decrease. We may encounter further market pressures to migrate existing customers to lower-priced service offering packages; restructure service offering packages to offer more value; reduce prices; and respond to particular short-term, market-specific situations, such as special introductory pricing or new product or service offerings. As a result, our revenues could be adversely impacted and our business may suffer. Additionally, we may incur increased sales and marketing expenses in an effort to maintain our existing customers or to attract new customers, which would adversely impact our profitability. We continue to implement plans to address churn, which is adversely affected by increased competition. Our efforts to reduce churn focus on improving the customer’s Internet experience and enhancing service offerings. However, we can provide no assurance that our plans will be successful in mitigating the adverse impact increased churn may have on our subscriber base and operating results. In addition, competitive factors outside of our control may also adversely affect future rates of customer churn. If we experience an increase in monthly churn rates, or if we are unable to attract new subscribers in numbers sufficient to increase or maintain the level of our overall subscriber base, our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. 17 We may be unsuccessful in making and integrating acquisitions and investments into our business, which could result in operating difficulties, losses and other adverse consequences. We have acquired and invested in businesses in the past, including the acquisition of New Edge in April 2006. We also have historically acquired subscriber bases from ISPs. We expect to continue to evaluate and consider a wide array of potential strategic transactions that we believe may complement our current or future business activities, including acquisitions and dispositions of businesses, technologies, services, products and other assets. At any given time, we may be engaged in discussions or negotiations with respect to one or more of such transactions that may be material to our financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that any such discussions or negotiations will result in the consummation of any transaction. The process of integrating any acquired business or assets may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and is itself risky. Acquisitions and investments create difficulties or risks such as: · diversion of management time, as well as a shift in focus from operating the business to issues of integration and future products; · declining employee morale and retention issues resulting from changes in compensation, reporting relationships, future prospects or the direction of the business; · the need to integrate each company’s accounting, management information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management, and the lack of control if such integration is delayed or not implemented; · the need to implement controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company at companies that, prior to acquisition, had lacked such controls, procedures and policies; · the need to remediate significant control deficiencies that may exist at acquired companies, which, if unremediated, could result in a material weakness or significant deficiency in our internal control structure; · in some cases, the need to transition operations, users, and/or customers onto our existing platforms; · the potential impairment of customer and other relationships as a result of any integration of operations; · the potential unknown liabilities associated with a company we acquire or in which we invest; and · the potential impairment of amounts capitalized as intangible assets as part of an acquisition. Additionally, as a result of future acquisitions or investments, we may issue additional equity securities, which could dilute existing shareholders’ interests. We may also spend our cash or incur debt or contingent liabilities to complete transactions which could adversely affect our liquidity. Lastly, as a result of acquisitions, we would record amortization expenses related to acquired definite lived intangible assets, which would adversely affect our results of operations. The continued decline of our narrowband revenues could adversely affect our profitability and adversely impact our ability to invest in our growth initiatives. The number of U.S. households using broadband has grown significantly over the last few years and is expected to continue to grow. Broadband access generally offers users faster connection and download speeds than narrowband access. Pricing for broadband services, particularly for introductory promotional periods; services bundled with cable and telephone services; and services with slower speeds has been declining and is approaching prices for premium narrowband services. As a result of broadband adoption, 18 the total number of narrowband accounts in the U.S. has declined, and industry analysts predict the total number of narrowband accounts will continue to decline. The decline in the size of the narrowband market will likely continue as broadband services become more widely available at lower prices and consumer adoption of broadband applications, such as online video, telephony and music downloads which depend upon connections that provide significant bandwidth, increases. Our premium-priced narrowband service is our most profitable service offering; however, consistent with trends in the market for narrowband access, our premium-priced narrowband subscriber base and revenues have been declining. We expect our premium-priced narrowband subscriber base and revenues to continue to decline, which could adversely affect our results of operations in the future and adversely impact our ability to invest in our growth businesses. We may not be able to successfully manage the costs associated with delivering our broadband services, which could adversely affect our ability to grow or sustain revenues and our profitability. As of December 31, 2006, subscribers for our broadband services comprised approximately 36% of our total customer base, and our broadband services favorably contribute to our overall average monthly service revenue per subscriber. However, our ability to provide these services profitably is dependent upon cost-effectively purchasing wholesale broadband access and managing the costs associated with delivering broadband services. The costs associated with delivering broadband services include recurring service costs such as telecommunications and customer support costs as well as costs incurred to add new broadband customers, such as sales and marketing and installation and hardware costs. While we continuously evaluate cost reduction opportunities associated with the delivery of broadband access services to improve our profitability, our overall profitability would be adversely affected if we are unable to continue to manage and reduce recurring service costs associated with the delivery of broadband services and costs incurred to add new broadband customers. Companies may not provide last mile wireline broadband access to us on a wholesale basis or on terms or at prices that allow us to grow and be profitable. We provide our wireline broadband services to customers using the last mile element of telecommunications and cable companies’ networks. The term “last mile” generally refers to the element of the network that is directly connected to homes and businesses. We have agreements with several network providers that allow us to use the last mile element of their network to provide high-speed Internet access services via DSL or cable. The availability of and charges for access with any of our network providers at the expiration of current terms cannot be assured and may reflect legislative or regulatory as well as competitive and business factors. We cannot be certain of renewal or non-termination of our contracts. Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to renew or extend contracts with our current network providers on acceptable terms, renew or extend current contracts with network providers at all, acquire similar network capacity from other network providers, or otherwise maintain or extend our footprint. One of our largest network providers of wholesale broadband access is Covad, a CLEC. Covad has agreements with varying terms with many of the ILECs; however, if Covad is unable to continue to obtain reasonable line-sharing rates due to recent legal and regulatory developments or otherwise, its wholesale broadband access services may become uneconomic or it may cease selling wholesale broadband access services. In either event, we may be able to use other wholesale broadband providers’ networks to continue to provide retail broadband services. Such events may cause us to incur additional costs, pay increased rates for wholesale broadband access services, cause us to increase the retail prices of our broadband 19 service offerings and/or may cause us to discontinue providing retail DSL services, any of which would adversely affect our ability to compete in the market for retail broadband access services. An order adopted in 2005 by the FCC reclassified wireline broadband services as information services and eliminated the FCC’s long-standing non-discriminatory access requirements. While the long-term implications of the FCC’s new policies are not certain, they may adversely affect our ability to sustain or grow our broadband access customer base and revenues, and our profitability. We will continue our efforts to partner with wholesale broadband providers, including cable providers, ILECs, CLECs and wireless providers, to expand our broadband footprint and the various technologies we can use in various markets to deliver our broadband services. However, we can provide no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts. Each of our telecommunications vendors provides network access to some of our competitors and could choose to grant those competitors preferential network access or pricing. Many of our telecommunications providers compete with us in the market to provide consumer Internet access. As a result, any or all of our current telecommunications service providers could discontinue providing us with service at rates acceptable to us, or at all, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. Our commercial and alliance arrangements may be terminated or may not be as beneficial as anticipated, which could adversely affect our ability to increase our subscriber base. A significant number of our subscribers have been generated through strategic alliances. Generally, our strategic alliances and marketing relationships are not exclusive. In addition, as our agreements expire or otherwise terminate, we may be unable to renew or replace these agreements on comparable terms, or at all. Our inability to maintain our marketing relationships or establish new marketing relationships could result in delays and increased costs in adding paying subscribers and adversely affect our ability to increase or sustain the size of our subscriber base, which could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on us. The number of customers we are able to add through these marketing relationships is dependent on the marketing efforts of our partners, and a significant decrease in the number of gross subscriber additions generated through these relationships could adversely affect the size of our customer base and revenues. During 2006, we and Embarq agreed that our wholesale broadband contract would not be renewed following the contract’s expiration in April 2007. During the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2006, our relationship with Embarq generated more than 10% of our total gross organic subscriber additions. As of December 31, 2006, our broadband subscriber count and total subscriber count included approximately 755,000 subscribers under the marketing relationship. We utilize third-parties for technical and customer support and certain billing services, and our business may suffer if our partners are unable to provide these services, cannot expand to meet our needs or terminate their relationships with us. Our business and financial results depend, in part, on the availability and quality of our customer support services and billing services. We outsource a majority of our technical and customer support functions. As a result, we maintain only a small number of internal customer service and technical support personnel. We are not currently equipped to provide the necessary range of customer service functions in the event that our service providers become unable or unwilling to offer these services to us. Our outsourced contact center service providers utilize several internationally geographically dispersed locations to provide us with technical and customer support services, and as a result, our contact center service providers may become subject to financial, economic, and political risks beyond our or the providers’ control, which could jeopardize their ability to deliver customer support services. We also utilize third parties for certain billing services. If one or more of our service providers does not provide us with quality services, or if our relationship with any of our third parties terminates and we are unable to provide 20 those services internally or identify a replacement vendor in an orderly, cost-effective and timely manner, our business, financial position and results of operations would suffer. Service interruptions or impediments could harm our business. We may experience service interruptions or system failures in the future. Any service interruption adversely affects our ability to operate our business and could result in an immediate loss of revenues. If we experience frequent or persistent system or network failures, our reputation and brand could be permanently harmed. We may make significant capital expenditures to increase the reliability of our systems, but these capital expenditures may not achieve the results we expect. Harmful software programs. Our network infrastructure and the networks of our third-party providers are vulnerable to damaging software programs, such as computer viruses and worms. Certain of these programs have disabled the ability of computers to access the Internet, requiring users to obtain technical support in order to gain access to the Internet. Other programs have had the potential to damage or delete computer programs. The development and widespread dissemination of harmful programs has the potential to seriously disrupt Internet usage. If Internet usage is significantly disrupted for an extended period of time, or if the prevalence of these programs results in decreased residential Internet usage, our business could be materially and adversely impacted. Security breaches. We depend on the security of our networks and, in part, on the security of the network infrastructures of our third-party telecommunications service providers, our outsourced customer support service providers and our other vendors. Unauthorized or inappropriate access to, or use of, our network, computer systems and services could potentially jeopardize the security of confidential information, including credit card information, of our users and of third parties. Some consumers and businesses have in the past used our network, services and brand names to perpetrate crimes and may do so in the future. Users or third parties may assert claims of liability against us as a result of any failure by us to prevent these activities. Although we use security measures, there can be no assurance that the measures we take will be successfully implemented or will be effective in preventing these activities. Further, the security measures of our third-party network providers, our outsourced customer support service providers and our other vendors may be inadequate. These activities may subject us to legal claims, may adversely impact our reputation, and may interfere with our ability to provide our services, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Natural disaster or other catastrophic event. Our operations and services depend on the extent to which our computer equipment and the computer equipment of our third-party network providers are protected against damage from fire, flood, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins, acts of war or terrorism and similar events. We have three technology centers at various locations in the U.S. which contain a significant portion of our computer and electronic equipment. These technology centers host and manage Internet content, email, web hosting and authentication applications and services. Despite precautions taken by us and our third-party network providers, over which we have no control, a natural disaster or other unanticipated problem that impacts one of our locations or our third-party providers’ networks could cause interruptions in the services that we provide. Such interruptions in our services could have a material adverse effect on our ability to provide Internet services to our subscribers and, in turn, on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Network infrastructure. The success of our business depends on the capacity, reliability and security of our network infrastructure, including that of our third-party telecommunications providers’ networks. We may be required to expand and improve our infrastructure and/or purchase additional capacity from third-party providers to meet the needs of an increasing number of subscribers and to accommodate the expanding amount and type of information our customers communicate over the Internet. Such expansion and improvement may require substantial financial, operational and managerial resources. 21 Government regulations could force us to change our business practices. Internet access. Changes in the regulatory environment regarding the Internet could cause our revenues to decrease and/or our costs to increase. Currently, ISPs as “information service” providers, are largely unregulated, other than with respect to regulations that govern businesses generally, such as regulations related to consumer protection. As information services and telecommunications services converge, however, the FCC may seek to impose additional regulations, including the imposition of regulatory fees such as Universal Service Fund payments, on information service providers that could adversely affect our business. VoIP. The current regulatory environment for VoIP services remains unclear. Our VoIP services are not currently subject to all of the same regulations that apply to traditional telephony. It is possible that Congress and some state legislatures may seek to impose increased fees and administrative burdens on VoIP providers. The FCC has already required certain VoIP providers to contribute directly into the Universal Service Fund as well as to meet various emergency service requirements (such as E911) and interception or wiretapping requirements, such as the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act, or CALEA. In addition the FCC may seek to impose other traditional telephony requirements such as disability access requirements, consumer protection requirements, number assignment and portability requirements, and other obligations, including additional obligations regarding E911 and CALEA. Such regulations could result in substantial costs depending on the technical changes required to accommodate the requirements, and any increased costs could erode our pricing advantage over competing forms of communication and may adversely affect our business. CLEC regulation. New Edge is a regulated CLEC. Telecommunications laws and regulations applicable to CLECs have been subject to change and to reversal by the courts, and we cannot be certain that such changes will not continue to occur in the future. Our results of operations could be materially, adversely affected by future changes of these legal and regulatory rights or obligations. In addition, New Edge makes use of ILECs and other CLECS. Such services are often made available by regulation. Changes in such regulation that might curtail New Edge’s access to such services or that would otherwise negatively impact the rates or conditions of such services for New Edge could have a material adverse impact on our operations. Tax. The tax treatment of activities on or relating to the Internet is currently unsettled. A number of proposals have been made at the federal, state and local levels and by foreign governments that could impose taxes on the online sale of goods and services and other Internet activities. Future federal and state laws imposing taxes on the provision of goods and services over the Internet could make it substantially more expensive to operate our business. Other. Our business is also subject to a variety of other U.S. laws and regulations that could subject us to liabilities, claims or other remedies, such as laws relating to bulk email or “spam,” access to various types of content by minors, anti-spyware initiatives, encryption, data protection, data retention, security breaches and consumer protection. Compliance with these laws and regulations is complex and may require significant costs. In addition, the regulatory framework relating to Internet services is evolving and both the federal government and states from time to time pass legislation that impacts our business. It is likely that additional laws and regulations will be adopted that would affect our business. We cannot predict the impact future regulatory changes or developments may have on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The enactment of any additional laws or regulations, increased enforcement activity of existing laws and regulations, or claims by individuals could significantly impact our costs or the manner in which we conduct business, all of which could adversely impact our results of operations and cause our business to suffer. 22 Changes in, or interpretations of, laws regarding consumer protection could subject us to liability or cause us to change our practices. Consumer protection laws and enforcement actions regarding advertising and user privacy, especially relating to children, are becoming more prevalent. The Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) and some state Attorney General offices have conducted investigations into the privacy practices of companies that collect information about individuals on the Internet. The FTC has also investigated Internet service providers in connection with marketing, billing, customer retention, cancellation and disclosure practices. Various state agencies as well as individuals have also asserted claims against, or instituted inquiries into, Internet service providers in connection with marketing, billing, customer retention, cancellation and disclosure practices. Although we believe that we comply with applicable consumer protection laws, we cannot assure you that our services and business practices, or changes to our services and business practices, will not subject us to claims and liability by private parties, the FTC or other governmental agencies. We may not be able to protect our proprietary technologies or successfully defend infringement claims and may be required to enter licensing arrangements on unfavorable terms. We regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, trade secrets, proprietary technologies, domain names and similar intellectual property as critical to our success. We rely on trademark, copyright and patent law; trade secret protection; and confidentiality agreements with our employees, customers, partners and others to protect our proprietary rights. The efforts we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our copyrights, trademarks, patents and similar proprietary rights. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use, our brand image may be harmed and our business may suffer. The protection of our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, trade secrets, domain names, proprietary technologies and intellectual property may require the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. Moreover, we can not be certain the steps we take to protect these assets will adequately protect our rights or that others will not independently develop or otherwise acquire equivalent or superior technology or other intellectual property rights. Such events could substantially diminish the value of our technology and property which could adversely affect our business. We may be accused of infringing upon the intellectual property rights of third parties, which is costly to defend and could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future. Internet, technology and media companies often possess a significant number of patents. Further, many of these companies and other parties are actively developing or purchasing Internet-related technologies. We believe that these parties will continue to take steps to protect these technologies, including, but not limited to, seeking patent protection. As a result, disputes regarding the ownership of technologies and rights associated with online business are likely to continue to arise in the future. From time to time, third parties have alleged that we infringed on their proprietary rights. We have been subject to, and expect to continue to be subject to, claims and legal proceedings regarding alleged infringement by us of the patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties. None of these claims has had an adverse effect on our ability to market and sell and support our Internet access services. As we expand our business and develop new technologies, products and services, we may become increasingly subject to intellectual property infringement claims. Such claims, whether or not meritorious, may result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources, injunctions against us or the imposition of damages that we must pay. We may need to obtain licenses from third parties who allege that we have infringed their rights, but such licenses may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. In addition, we may not be able to obtain or utilize on terms which are acceptable to us, or at all, licenses or other rights with respect to intellectual property we do not own in providing and supporting our service 23 offerings. Any of these could result in increases in operating expenses or could limit or reduce the number of our service offerings. If we are unable to successfully defend against legal actions, we could face substantial liabilities. We are currently a party to various legal actions, including class action litigation. Defending against these lawsuits may involve significant expense and diversion of management’s attention and resources from other matters. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation, we may not prevail in these actions. In addition, our ongoing operations may subject us to litigation risks and costs in the future. Both the costs of defending lawsuits and any settlements or judgments against us could materially and adversely affect our operating expenses and liquidity. Our business depends on the continued development of effective business support systems, processes and personnel. In recent years, we have expanded our service offerings and will endeavor to expand further by offering new products and services to maintain and increase our customer base. Such expansion increases the complexity of our business and places a significant strain on our management, operations, financial resources, and internal financial control and reporting functions. Our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support and effectively manage our growth initiatives which would strain our management, operational and financial resources. Consequently, we may not be able to hire, train, retain, motivate and manage required personnel and develop, implement, and manage adequate systems, procedures and controls to support new products and services, which may limit our growth potential and adversely affect our business. Additionally, our business relies on our financial reporting and data systems, including our billing systems, which have grown increasingly complex due to the diversification and complexity of our business. Our ability to operate our business efficiently depends on these systems, and if we are unable to modify or develop new systems to support our growth initiatives, our business will be adversely affected. We may be unable to hire and retain sufficient qualified personnel, and the loss of any of our key executive officers could adversely affect us. We believe that our success will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled, knowledgeable, sophisticated and qualified managerial, professional and technical personnel. We may have limited or no experience in new product and service initiatives, making it more important to find qualified personnel. We have experienced significant competition in attracting and retaining personnel who possess the skills that we are seeking. As a result of this competition, we may experience a shortage of qualified personnel. In addition, the loss of any of our key executives, including the recent death of Charles G. Betty, our former Chief Executive Officer, could have a material adverse effect on us. Mr. Betty was very experienced in the industry and had a long history with EarthLink. His loss could have a negative impact on our results of operations or on our ability to carry out our growth initiatives. Additional Risks related to Our Growth Initiatives We may not be successful in entering into arrangements with municipalities to build out and operate municipal wireless broadband networks and we may not obtain a sufficient number of subscribers to generate the returns anticipated on our investments to construct and deploy municipal wireless broadband networks. An important element of our business strategy is to deploy competitive alternatives to DSL and cable for delivering broadband Internet access services, reflected in our municipal wireless initiative. We have begun to operate networks in the cities of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Anaheim, California; Milpitas, California; and New Orleans, Louisiana. We are pursuing additional similar arrangements with other 24 municipalities, but there is no assurance that we will be successful in these efforts. The municipal network business is a largely untested business model and we may not obtain the subscriber levels required to earn a return on our investment in this business. The success of our municipal wireless service depends on growth in the number of municipal wireless broadband users, which in part depends on wider public acceptance of this service. Our municipal wireless broadband services may not achieve consumer adoption or, even if these services do achieve consumer adoption, we may not be able generate growth in subscribers or revenue. In addition, this initiative may result in significant capital expenditures in future periods to develop, implement and build wireless broadband networks in various municipalities, and we may not generate the returns anticipated on the capital expenditures and operating losses that may be incurred in this effort. Municipal wireless networks may not perform as expected or may result in unanticipated costs, which could increase our churn and our cost of providing services. Municipal wireless networks may not perform as we expect, and therefore we may not be able to deliver the quality or types of service we expect. We also may discover unanticipated costs associated with deploying and maintaining our network or delivering services we must offer in order to remain competitive. These risks could reduce our subscriber growth, increase our costs of providing services or increase our subscriber churn. We may experience difficulties in constructing, upgrading and maintaining our municipal wireless network, which could adversely affect customer satisfaction, increase subscriber churn and reduce our revenues. The success of our municipal wireless broadband initiative depends on developing and providing services that give subscribers a high quality experience. We expect to expend significant resources in constructing, maintaining and improving our network. Additionally, as the number of subscribers using our network increases, as the usage habits of our subscribers change and as we increase our service offerings, we may need to upgrade our network to maintain or improve the quality of our services. If we do not successfully implement upgrades to our network, the quality of our services may decline and the rate of our subscriber churn may increase. We may experience quality deficiencies, cost overruns and delays with our construction, maintenance and upgrade projects including the portions of those projects not within our control. The construction of our network requires permits and approvals from numerous governmental bodies, including municipalities and zoning boards. Such entities often limit the expansion of transmission towers and other construction necessary for our network. Failure to receive approvals in a timely fashion can delay system rollouts and raise the cost of completing construction projects. In addition, we typically are required to obtain rights from land, building and tower owners to install the antennas and other equipment that provide our service to our subscribers. We may not be able to obtain, on terms acceptable to us or at all, the rights necessary to construct our network and expand our services. We also may face challenges in managing and operating our network. These challenges include ensuring the availability of subscriber equipment that is compatible with our network and managing sales, advertising, customer support, billing and collection functions of our business. We also must provide reliable network service that meets our subscribers’ expectations. There is no industry precedent for the operation of a network of this type over a large municipal area and we may experience technological or other difficulties that we do not currently expect. Our failure in any of these areas could adversely affect customer satisfaction, increase subscriber churn, increase our costs, decrease our revenues and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 25 The market for VoIP services may not develop as anticipated, which would adversely affect our ability to execute our voice strategy. The success of our VoIP service depends on growth in the number of VoIP users, which in part depends on wider public acceptance of VoIP telephony. The VoIP communications medium is still in its growth stages. Potential new users may view VoIP as unattractive relative to traditional telephone services for a number of reasons, including the perception that the price advantage for VoIP is insufficient to justify the perceived inconvenience. We have experienced losses in connection with these services due to the costs of developing and operating them. It is likely we will continue to expend significant resources developing, enhancing, operating and marketing these services. We expect these services to continue to adversely impact our profitability, at least in the near term. If our VoIP services are not commercially successful we will continue to incur operating losses in connection with these services, which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Certain aspects of our VoIP service are not the same as traditional telephone service, which may limit the acceptance of our services by mainstream consumers and our potential for growth. Certain aspects of our service are not the same as traditional telephone service. Our continued growth is dependent on the adoption of our services by mainstream customers, so these differences are becoming increasingly important. For example: · Both our new E911 and emergency calling services are different, in significant respects, from the 911 service associated with traditional wireline and wireless telephone providers and, in certain cases, with other VoIP providers. · Our customers may experience lower call quality than they are used to from traditional wireline telephone companies, including static, echoes and delays in transmissions. · Our customers may experience higher dropped-call rates than they are used to from traditional wireline telephone companies. · Customers who obtain new phone numbers from us do not appear in the phone book and their phone numbers are not available through directory assistance services offered by traditional telephone companies. · Our customers cannot accept collect calls. · Our VoIP service requires an operative broadband connection. In the event of a power loss or Internet access interruption experienced by a customer, our service is interrupted. Unlike some of our competitors, we have not installed batteries at customer premises to provide emergency power for our customers’ equipment if they lose power, although we do have backup power systems for our network equipment and service platform. If customers do not accept the differences between our service and traditional telephone service, they may choose to remain with their current telephone service provider or may choose to return to service provided by traditional telephone companies. Our E911 emergency services are different from those offered by traditional wireline telephone companies and may expose us to significant liability. Our E911 emergency service is different in significant respects from the emergency calling services offered by traditional wireline telephone companies. In each case, those differences may cause significant delays, or even failures, in callers’ receipt of the emergency assistance they need. If one of our customers 26 experiences a broadband or power outage, or if a network failure were to occur, the customer will not be able to reach an emergency services provider. In addition, we rely on customers of our trueVoice VoIP service to register their location with us so that emergency services can be sent to the correct location. If they move their service without updating us and are unable to verbally communicate with an emergency operator, then they will not receive necessary emergency services. Delays or failures in receiving emergency services can be catastrophic. While traditional phone companies may also experience problems in providing emergency calling services, they are covered by legislation that significantly limits their liability for failures of emergency calling services and we are not. This liability could be substantial. In addition, we have lost, and may in the future lose, existing and prospective customers because of the limitations inherent in our emergency calling services. Any of these factors could cause us to lose revenues, incur greater expenses or cause our reputation or financial results to suffer. Our ability to provide our VoIP service is dependent upon third-party facilities and equipment, the failure of which could cause delays or interruptions of our service, damage our reputation, cause us to lose customers and limit our growth. The success of our VoIP service depends on our ability to provide quality and reliable service, which is in part dependent upon the proper functioning of facilities and equipment owned and operated by third parties and is, therefore, beyond our control. Unlike traditional wireline telephone service or wireless service, our service requires our customers to have an operative broadband Internet connection and an electrical power supply, which are provided by the customer’s Internet service provider, which may or may not be us, and electric utility company, respectively. The quality of some broadband Internet connections may be too poor for customers to use our services properly. In addition, if there is any interruption to a customer’s broadband Internet service or electrical power supply, that customer will be unable to make or receive calls, including emergency calls, using our service. We also outsource several of our network functions to third-party providers. For example, we outsource the maintenance of our regional data connection points, which are the facilities at which our network interconnects with the public switched telephone network. If our third-party service providers fail to maintain these facilities properly, or fail to respond quickly to problems, our customers may experience service interruptions. Our customers have experienced such interruptions in the past and will experience interruptions in the future. In addition, our new E911 service is currently dependent upon several third-party providers. Interruptions in service from these vendors could cause failures in our customers’ access to E911 services. Interruptions in our service caused by third-party facilities have in the past caused and may in the future cause us to lose customers, or cause us to offer substantial customer credits, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. If interruptions adversely affect the perceived reliability of our service, we may have difficulty attracting new customers and our brand, reputation and growth will be negatively impacted. We may not realize the benefits we are seeking from our investments in the HELIO joint venture or other investment activities as a result of lower than predicted revenues or subscriber levels of the companies in which we invest, larger funding requirements for those companies or otherwise. We have made equity investments in several companies, including HELIO, a joint venture with SK Telecom that offers wireless voice and data services to consumers in the U.S. As of February 28, 2007, we have invested an aggregate of $214.0 million of cash and non-cash assets in HELIO. HELIO will require additional funding in the future and we expect we may invest additional cash amounts in HELIO. The financing of HELIO’s operations has adversely affected our cash position. In addition, HELIO has incurred losses and we expect HELIO to continue to incur losses due to the start-up nature of its operations, and we include our proportionate share of the losses of HELIO in our statements of operations, which adversely affects our earnings and earnings per share. In addition, HELIO may not be successful in implementing and marketing its wireless voice and data initiatives, and there can be no 27 assurance that these initiatives will be commercially successful. This would adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. HELIO operates in a highly competitive environment. HELIO’s wireless business faces intense competition from other wireless providers, from other MVNOs and from wireless hardware manufacturers such as Apple. Many of those competitors are major communications companies that have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources than HELIO has. These competitors also have greater name recognition and more established relationships with a larger base of current and potential customers and, accordingly, HELIO may not be able to compete successfully. Companies that have the resources to sustain losses for some time have an advantage over those companies without access to these resources. We cannot assure you HELIO will be able to achieve or maintain adequate market share or revenue or compete effectively. HELIO’s ability to compete will depend, in part, on its ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors affecting the telecommunications industry. We continue to evaluate investment opportunities and may make investments in the future in companies that offer products and services that are complementary to our offerings and in companies that allow us to vertically integrate our business. The value of each of our investments is subject to general economic, technological and market trends, as well as to the operating and financial decisions of each company’s management team, all of which are outside of our control. In addition, these companies may not gain the expected number of customers and/or generate the expected level of revenues, and consequently, these companies may require additional funding, any of which could diminish the value of or dilute our investment. Our current and future investments in other companies, including our investment in the HELIO joint venture, may not provide the economic returns we are seeking and may lose value, which would materially, adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Other Risks Our stock price has been volatile historically and may continue to be volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to fluctuations. Our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in operating results; announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; developments in our business strategy; changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us; and news reports relating to trends in the markets in which we operate or general economic conditions. In addition, the stock market in general and the market prices for Internet-related companies in particular, have experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our stock, regardless of our operating performance. Additionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, many of whom have been granted stock incentive awards. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and limit our ability to react to changes in our industry or to implement our strategic initiatives. As of December 31, 2006, we had $258.8 million of indebtedness outstanding due to the issuance of our 3.25% Convertible Senior Notes Due 2026 (the “Notes”) in November 2006. Our indebtedness could have important consequences to us. For example, it could: · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund our business activities; 28 · limit our ability to secure additional financing to implement our strategic initiatives; · increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; · place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that may have proportionately less debt; and · restrict us from making strategic acquisitions, introducing new technologies or otherwise exploiting business opportunities. We may be unable to repurchase the Notes for cash when required by the holders, including following a fundamental change, or to pay the cash portion of the conversion value upon conversion of any Notes by the holders. Holders of the Notes have the right to require us to repurchase the Notes on November 15, 2011, November 15, 2016 and November 15, 2021 or upon the occurrence of a fundamental change prior to maturity. Moreover, upon conversion of the Notes, we are required to settle a portion of the conversion value in cash. Any debt agreements that we may enter into in the future may contain similar repurchase and cash settlement provisions. We may not have sufficient funds to make the required cash payment upon conversion or to purchase or repurchase the Notes in cash at such time or the ability to arrange necessary financing on acceptable terms. In addition, our ability to pay cash upon conversion or to purchase or repurchase the Notes in cash may be limited by law or the terms of agreements relating to our debt outstanding at the time. However, if we fail to repurchase or purchase the Notes or pay cash upon conversion as required by the indenture for the Notes, it would constitute an event of default under the indenture, which, in turn, would constitute an event of default under our other debt agreements, if any. In addition, the requirement to pay the fundamental change repurchase price, including the related make whole premium, may discourage a change in control of our company. The convertible notes hedge and warrant transactions may affect the value of our common stock. In November 2006, in connection with the offering of our Notes, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions and warrant transactions with affiliates of UBS Investment Bank and Banc of America Securities LLC. These transactions are expected to offset the potential dilution upon conversion of the Notes. In connection with hedging these transactions, such affiliates of UBS Investment Bank and Banc of America Securities LLC: · entered into various over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to our common stock, and may purchase our common stock; and · may enter into, or may unwind, various over-the-counter derivatives and/or purchase or sell our common stock in secondary market transactions. The affiliates of UBS Investment Bank and Banc of America Securities LLC party to these transactions are likely to modify their hedge positions from time to time prior to conversion or maturity of the Notes or termination of the transactions by purchasing and selling shares of our common stock, other of our securities, or other instruments they may wish to use in connection with such hedging. In addition, we intend to exercise options we hold under the convertible note hedge transactions whenever Notes are converted. In order to unwind their hedge position with respect to those exercised options, the affiliates of UBS Investment Bank and Banc of America Securities LLC party to these transactions expect to sell shares of our common stock in secondary market transactions or unwind various over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to our common stock during the conversion reference period for the converted Notes. 29 The effect, if any, of any of these transactions and activities on the market price of our common stock will depend in part on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time, but any of these activities could adversely affect the value of our common stock. In addition, in the event that these transactions fail to offset all of the dilution resulting from the conversion of the Notes, the issuance of additional shares of our common stock as a consequence of such conversion would result in some dilution to our shareholders and could adversely affect the value of our common stock. Provisions of our second restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and other elements of our capital structure could limit our share price and delay a change of management. Our second restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and shareholder rights plan contain provisions that could make it more difficult or even prevent a third party from acquiring us without the approval of our incumbent board of directors. These provisions, among other things: · divide the board of directors into three classes, with members of each class to be elected in staggered three-year terms; · limit the right of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; and · authorize the board of directors to issue preferred stock in one or more series without any action on the part of stockholders. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and significantly impede the ability of the holders of our common stock to change management. In addition, we have adopted a rights plan, which has anti-takeover effects. The rights plan, if triggered, could cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire our common stock on terms not approved by the board of directors. Provisions and agreements that inhibit or discourage takeover attempts could reduce the market value of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 