Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may adversely impact our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Changes to our business strategy may reduce our revenues and profitability. In response to declining revenues, changes in our industry and changes in consumer behavior, we recently refocused our business strategy to reduce our back-office cost structure and our sales and marketing efforts. We are focusing efforts primarily on the retention of tenured customers and on acquiring customers through partnerships and acquisitions from other ISPs. If we do not maintain our relationships with current customers and acquire new customers, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. In addition, our results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not implement operating cost structures that align with trends in our revenue. The continued decline of our consumer access services revenues could adversely affect our profitability. Our premium-priced narrowband service is our most profitable service offering; however, due to the continued maturation of the market for premium-priced narrowband access, our premium-priced narrowband subscriber base and revenues have been declining. In addition, the mix of our narrowband customers has shifted towards value-priced narrowband access. We expect our premium-priced narrowband subscriber base and revenues to continue to decline, which could adversely affect our profitability. Prices for certain of our customer access services have been decreasing, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Prices for certain of our consumer access services have been decreasing. We expect that we will continue to experience continuing decreases in prices due to competition, volume-based pricing and other factors. Some providers have reduced and may continue to reduce the retail price of their consumer access services to maintain or increase their market share, which would cause us to reduce, or prevent us from raising, our prices. We may encounter further market pressures to: migrate existing customers to lower-priced service offering packages; restructure service offering packages to offer more value; reduce prices; and respond to particular short-term, market-specific situations, such as special introductory pricing or new product or service offerings. Any of the above could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. We might not realize the benefits we are seeking from the corporate restructuring plan announced in August 2007 and our corporate restructuring plan might have a negative effect on our efforts to maintain our subscribers and our relationships with our business partners. In August 2007, we implemented a corporate restructuring plan intended to reduce costs and improve the efficiency of our operations. There are several risks inherent in our efforts, including the risk that cost-cutting plans will impair our ability to remain competitive and to operate effectively, which could have a negative effect on our efforts to maintain our subscribers and our relationships with our business partners. There is also a risk that we will not be able to reduce expenditures quickly enough and maintain them at a level necessary to increase profitability. Each of these risks could have long-term effects on our business, making it more difficult for us to respond to customers and maintain the quality of services we provide, and limiting our ability to hire and retain key personnel. These circumstances could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 11 As a result of our continuing review of our business, we may have to undertake further restructuring plans that would require additional charges including incurring facility exit and restructuring charges. Our corporate restructuring plan announced in August 2007 was, in part, the result of a review of each of the growth initiatives we had launched in prior years in order to evaluate whether they were complementary to our long-term strategy and allowed us to maximize shareholder value. We continue to evaluate our business, and these reviews may result in additional restructuring activities. Engaging in further restructuring activities could result in additional charges and costs, including facility exit and restructuring costs, and could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We face significant competition that could reduce our market share and reduce our profitability. Competition for our Access Services We face significant competition in the markets for consumer and business Internet access, network access and IP-based voice services and we expect this competition to intensify. The intense competition from our competitors could decrease the number of subscribers we are able to add, increase churn of our existing customers, increase operating costs, such as for marketing or sales incentives, or cause us to reduce prices, which would result in lower revenues and profits. We compete directly or indirectly with established online services companies, such as Time Warner (AOL) and the Microsoft Network (MSN); local and regional ISPs; free or value-priced ISPs such as United Online; national communications companies and local exchange carriers, such as AT&T, Verizon and Qwest; content companies, such as Yahoo! and Google; cable companies providing broadband access, including Comcast, Charter Communications, Inc. and Cox Communications, Inc.; companies that offer VoIP-based services as their primary business, such as Vonage; wireless Internet service providers; satellite and fixed wireless service providers; and electric utilities and other providers offering or planning to offer broadband Internet connectivity over power lines. Many of our current and prospective competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, better strategic relationships and significantly greater financial, technical or marketing resources than we do. As a result, these competitors may be able to develop and adopt new or emerging technologies; respond to changes in customer requirements more quickly; devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products and services; form new alliances to rapidly acquire significant market share; undertake more extensive marketing campaigns; and adopt more aggressive pricing policies. In addition, some of our competitors are able to bundle other content, services and products with Internet access services, placing us at a competitive disadvantage. These services include various forms of video services, voice and data services and wireless communications. The ability to bundle services, as well as the financial strength and the benefits of scale enjoyed by certain of these competitors, may enable them to offer services at prices that are below the prices at which we can offer comparable services. If we cannot compete effectively with these service providers, our revenues and growth may be adversely affected. Competition for Other Services We compete for advertising revenues with major ISPs, content providers, large web publishers, web search engine and portal companies, Internet advertising providers, content aggregation companies, social-networking web sites, and various other companies that facilitate Internet advertising. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger user bases and significantly greater financial, sales and marketing resources than we do. These strengths may allow them to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of advertising services. The companies we compete with for Internet access subscribers also compete with us for subscribers to value-added services, such as email storage and security products. In certain cases, companies offer 12 value-added services for free, and we can provide no assurance that our offerings will remain competitive or commercially viable. While the personal web hosting business is fragmented, a number of significant companies, including Yahoo!, currently compete actively for these subscribers. In addition, the personal web hosting industry is very application specific, with many of the competitors focusing on specific applications, to generate additional subscribers. We can provide no assurance that any of these value-added services will remain competitive or will generate customer and revenue growth. We may be unsuccessful in making and integrating acquisitions and investments into our business, which could result in operating difficulties, losses and other adverse consequences. We have acquired and invested in businesses in the past, including our acquisition of New Edge and our investment in the HELIO joint venture. We expect to continue to evaluate and consider a wide array of potential strategic transactions that we believe may complement our business, including acquisitions of subscriber bases from ISPs; acquisitions of businesses, technologies, services, products and other assets; and investments in companies that offer products and services that are complementary to our offerings or that allow us to vertically integrate our business. At any given time, we may be engaged in discussions or negotiations with respect to one or more of such transactions that may be material to our financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that any such discussions or negotiations will result in the consummation of any transaction. These transactions involve significant challenges and risks including diversion of management's attention from our other businesses; declining employee morale and retention issues; the integration of new employees, business systems and technology; the need to implement controls, procedures and policies or the need to remediate significant control deficiencies that may exist at acquired companies; potential unknown liabilities; or any other unforeseen operating difficulties. These factors could adversely affect our operating results or financial condition. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions or investments, we may not realize them in the time frame expected and our acquisitions and investments may lose value. Additionally, future acquisitions and investments may result in the dilutive issuances of equity securities, use of our cash resources, incurrence of debt or contingent liabilities, amortization expense related to acquired definite lived intangible assets or the potential impairment of amounts capitalized as intangible assets, including goodwill. Any of these items could have a material effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We may not be able to successfully manage the costs associated with delivering our broadband services, which could adversely affect our ability to grow or sustain revenues and our profitability. As of December 31, 2007, subscribers for our broadband services comprised approximately 25% of our total customer base, and our broadband services favorably contribute to our overall average monthly service revenue per subscriber. However, our ability to provide these services profitably is dependent upon cost-effectively purchasing wholesale broadband access and managing the costs associated with delivering broadband services. The costs associated with delivering broadband services include recurring service costs such as telecommunications and customer support costs as well as costs incurred to add new broadband customers, such as sales and marketing and installation and hardware costs. While we continuously evaluate cost reduction opportunities associated with the delivery of broadband access services to improve our profitability, our overall profitability would be adversely affected if we are unable to continue to manage and reduce recurring service costs associated with the delivery of broadband services and costs incurred to add new broadband customers. 13 Companies may not provide access to us on a wholesale basis or on terms or at prices that allow us to grow and be profitable. We provide subscribers with Internet access primarily through third-party telecommunications service providers. Our principal provider for narrowband services is Level 3 Communications, Inc. We provide our broadband services to customers using the last mile element of telecommunications and cable companies' networks. The term "last mile" generally refers to the element of the network that is directly connected to homes and businesses. We have agreements with several network providers that allow us to use the last mile element of their network to provide high-speed Internet access services via DSL or cable. Our largest providers of broadband connectivity are Covad and Time Warner Cable. We also purchase lesser amounts of services from a wide variety of local, regional and other national providers. We continue our efforts to partner with wholesale broadband providers. However, the availability of and charges for access with any of our network providers at the expiration of the current term of our agreement with them (such as our agreement with Covad, a CLEC) cannot be assured and may be affected by legislative or regulatory as well as competitive and business factors. We cannot be certain of renewal or non-termination of our contracts. Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to renew or extend contracts with our current network providers on acceptable terms, renew or extend current contracts with network providers at all, acquire similar network capacity from other network providers, or otherwise maintain or extend our footprint. Additionally, each of our network providers sells network access to some of our competitors and could choose to grant those competitors preferential network access or pricing. Many of our network providers compete with us in the market to provide consumer Internet access. Such events may cause us to incur additional costs, pay increased rates for wholesale access services, increase the retail prices of our service offerings and/or discontinue providing retail access services, any of which could adversely affect our ability to compete in the market for retail access services. We rely on Covad's line-powered voice access to provide our IP-based voice services. In October 2007, Covad entered into a merger agreement pursuant to which an affiliate of Platinum Equity, Blackberry Holding Corporation, will acquire all of the outstanding shares of Covad's common stock. The transaction is subject to shareholder approval, federal and state regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. We cannot be certain that the surviving company will continue to provide these services or provide these services on acceptable terms, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. If we do not continue to innovate and provide products and services that are useful to subscribers, we may not remain competitive, and our revenues and operating results could suffer. The market for Internet and telecommunications services is characterized by changing technology, changes in customer needs and frequent new service and product introductions. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to use leading technologies effectively, to continue to develop our technical expertise, to enhance our existing services and to develop new services that meet changing customer needs on a timely and cost-effective basis. We may not be able to adapt quickly enough to changing technology, customer requirements and industry standards. If we fail to use new technologies effectively, to develop our technical expertise and new services, or to enhance existing services on a timely basis, either internally or through arrangements with third parties, our product and service offerings may fail to meet customer needs which could adversely affect our revenues and prospects for growth. Our commercial and alliance arrangements may be terminated or may not be as beneficial as anticipated, which could adversely affect our ability to increase our subscriber base. A significant number of our subscribers have been generated through strategic alliances, including through our marketing alliance with Time Warner. Generally, our strategic alliances and marketing 14 relationships are not exclusive and may have a short term. In addition, as our agreements expire or otherwise terminate, such as the expiration of our wholesale broadband agreement with Embarq in 2007, we may be unable to renew or replace these agreements on comparable terms, or at all. Our inability to maintain our marketing relationships or establish new marketing relationships could result in delays and increased costs in adding paying subscribers and adversely affect our ability to increase or sustain the size of our subscriber base, which could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on us. The number of customers we are able to add through these marketing relationships is dependent on the marketing efforts of our partners, and a significant decrease in the number of gross subscriber additions generated through these relationships could adversely affect the size of our customer base and revenues. We utilize third parties for technical and customer support and certain billing services, and our business may suffer if these third parties are unable to provide these services, cannot expand to meet our needs or terminate their relationships with us. Our business and financial results depend, in part, on the availability and quality of our customer support services and billing services. We outsource a majority of our technical and customer support functions. As a result, we maintain only a small number of internal customer service and technical support personnel. We are not currently equipped to provide the necessary range of customer service functions in the event that our service providers become unable or unwilling to offer these services to us. Our outsourced contact center service providers utilize several internationally geographically dispersed locations to provide us with technical and customer support services, and as a result, our contact center service providers may become subject to financial, economic, and political risks beyond our or the providers' control, which could jeopardize their ability to deliver customer support services. We also utilize third parties for certain billing services. If one or more of our service providers does not provide us with quality services, or if our relationship with any of our third party vendors terminates and we are unable to provide those services internally or identify a replacement vendor in an orderly, cost-effective and timely manner, our business, financial position and results of operations could suffer. Service interruptions or impediments could harm our business. We may experience service interruptions or system failures in the future. Any service interruption adversely affects our ability to operate our business and could result in an immediate loss of revenues. If we experience frequent or persistent system or network failures, our reputation and brand could be permanently harmed. We may make significant capital expenditures to increase the reliability of our systems, but these capital expenditures may not achieve the results we expect. Harmful software programs. Our network infrastructure and the networks of our third party providers are vulnerable to damaging software programs, such as computer viruses and worms. Certain of these programs have disabled the ability of computers to access the Internet, requiring users to obtain technical support in order to gain access to the Internet. Other programs have had the potential to damage or delete computer programs. The development and widespread dissemination of harmful programs has the potential to seriously disrupt Internet usage. If Internet usage is significantly disrupted for an extended period of time, or if the prevalence of these programs results in decreased residential Internet usage, our business could be materially and adversely impacted. Security breaches. We depend on the security of our networks and, in part, on the security of the network infrastructures of our third party telecommunications service providers, our outsourced customer support service providers and our other vendors. Unauthorized or inappropriate access to, or use of, our network, computer systems and services could potentially jeopardize the security of confidential information, including credit card information, of our subscribers and of third parties. Some consumers and businesses have in the past used our network, services and brand names to perpetrate crimes and may do so in the future. Subscribers or third parties may assert claims of liability against us as a result of any failure by us to prevent these activities. Although we use security measures, there can be no assurance that 15 the measures we take will be implemented successfully or will be effective in preventing these activities. Further, the security measures of our third party network providers, our outsourced customer support service providers and our other vendors may be inadequate. These activities may subject us to legal claims, adversely impact our reputation, and interfere with our ability to provide our services, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Natural disaster or other catastrophic event. Our operations and services depend on the extent to which our equipment and the equipment of our third party network providers are protected against damage from fire, flood, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins, acts of war or terrorism and similar events. We have three technology centers at various locations in the U.S. which contain a significant portion of our computer and electronic equipment. These technology centers host and manage Internet content, email, web hosting and authentication applications and services. Despite precautions taken by us and our third party network providers, a natural disaster or other unanticipated problem that impacts one of our locations or our third party providers' networks could cause interruptions in the services that we provide. Such interruptions in our services could have a material adverse effect on our ability to provide Internet services to our subscribers and, in turn, on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Network infrastructure. The success of our business depends on the capacity, reliability and security of our network infrastructure, including that of our third party network providers' networks. We may be required to expand and improve our infrastructure and/or purchase additional capacity from third party providers to meet the needs of an increasing number of subscribers and to accommodate the expanding amount and type of information our customers communicate over the Internet. Such expansion and improvement could require substantial financial, operational and managerial resources. Government regulations could adversely affect our business or force us to change our business practices. The regulatory environment relating to our business continues to evolve. A number of legislative and regulatory proposals under consideration by federal, state and local governmental entities may lead to the repeal, modification or introduction of laws or regulations which do, or could, affect our business. Significant areas of regulation for our business include Internet access regulation, VoIP regulation and CLEC regulation. Our results of operations could be materially, adversely affected by future changes of these legal and regulatory rights or obligations. Narrowband Internet access. Currently, narrowband Internet access is classified as an "information service" and is not subject to the FCC's carrier access charge regime, which levies per-minute charges for traffic that uses the local telephone network. Any change to these rules that would apply per-minute carrier access charges to dial-up Internet access traffic would significantly impact our costs for this service. Broadband Internet access. Currently, broadband Internet access is classified as an "information service" and, as a result, cable companies and telephone companies that offer a broadband Internet access information service are not required by the FCC to offer unaffiliated ISPs stand-alone broadband transmission. This could adversely affect our broadband Internet access customer base and revenues. In the past few years, a number of the telephone companies that we compete with or who provide us with broadband Internet access services have consolidated through merger activity. Continued consolidation in the telecommunications industry could impact our ability to provide broadband Internet access services. The Communications Act provides the FCC with the authority to not enforce statutory requirements and regulations if certain public interest factors are satisfied. The ability for the FCC to forbear from enforcing regulations that have been established to enable competing broadband Internet access and VoIP, could adversely impact our business. 16 Tax. The Internet Tax Non-Discrimination Act places a moratorium on taxes on Internet access and multiple, discriminatory taxes on electronic commerce. Certain states have enacted various taxes on Internet access and electronic commerce, and selected states' taxes are being contested on a variety of bases. If these state tax laws are not successfully contested, or if future state and federal laws imposing taxes or other regulations on Internet access and electronic commerce are adopted, our cost of providing Internet access services could be increased and our business could be adversely affected. Consumer protection. Consumer protection laws and enforcement actions regarding advertising and user privacy, are becoming more prevalent. The Federal Trade Commission ("FTC") and some state Attorney General offices have conducted investigations into the privacy practices of companies that collect information about individuals on the Internet. The FTC and various state agencies as well as individuals have investigated and asserted claims against, or instituted inquiries into, Internet service providers in connection with marketing, billing, customer retention, cancellation and disclosure practices. Although we believe that we comply with applicable consumer protection laws, we cannot assure you that our services and business practices, or changes to our services and business practices, will not subject us to material liability. VoIP. The current regulatory environment for VoIP services remains unclear, as the decision whether VoIP is an "information service" or "telecommunications service" is still pending. Classifying VoIP as a telecommunications service could require us to obtain a telecommunications license, comply with numerous legacy telephone regulations, and possibly subject the VoIP traffic to inter-carrier access charges, which could result in increased costs. In addition, several state regulatory agencies are seeking jurisdiction over VoIP services. If successful, carrier access charges could be imposed on us, which could also result in increased costs. Such regulations could result in substantial costs depending on the technical changes required to accommodate the requirements, and any increased costs could erode our pricing advantage over competing forms of communication and may adversely affect our business. CLEC regulation. New Edge, our wholly-owned subsidiary, is a CLEC that is subject to both state and federal telecommunications regulation. As such, New Edge relies on certain regulatory rights of CLECs to provide services to business and enterprise customers, including rights to last-mile unbundled network elements of incumbent local exchange carriers (or ILECs) and rights to collocate New Edge equipment at ILEC facilities. New Edge also must contribute to state and federal universal service funds. In addition, New Edge makes use of the special access services and DSL services of ILECs and other CLECs in order to provision New Edge services to its customers. Other laws and regulations. Our business also is subject to a variety of other U.S. laws and regulations that could subject us to liabilities, claims or other remedies, such as laws relating to bulk email or "spam," access to various types of content by minors, anti-spyware initiatives, encryption, data protection, data retention, security breaches and consumer protection. Compliance with these laws and regulations is complex and may require significant costs. In addition, the regulatory framework relating to Internet services is evolving and both the federal government and states from time to time pass legislation that impacts our business. It is likely that additional laws and regulations will be adopted that would affect our business. We cannot predict the impact future laws, regulatory changes or developments may have on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The enactment of any additional laws or regulations, increased enforcement activity of existing laws and regulations, or claims by individuals could significantly impact our costs or the manner in which we conduct business, all of which could adversely impact our results of operations and cause our business to suffer. We may not be able to protect our proprietary technologies. We regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, trade secrets, proprietary technologies, domain names and similar intellectual property as critical to our success. We rely on trademark, copyright and patent law; trade secret protection; and confidentiality agreements with our employees, customers, 17 partners and others to protect our proprietary rights. The efforts we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our copyrights, trademarks, patents and similar proprietary rights. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use, our brand image may be harmed and our business may suffer. In addition, protecting our intellectual property and other proprietary rights is expensive and time consuming. Any increase in the unauthorized use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive to do business and consequently harm our operating results. We may be accused of infringing upon the intellectual property rights of third parties, which is costly to defend and could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future. From time to time, third parties have alleged that we infringe on their intellectual property rights. We have been subject to, and expect to continue to be subject to, claims and legal proceedings regarding alleged infringement by us of the patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties. None of these claims has had an adverse effect on our ability to market and sell and support our services. Such claims, whether or not meritorious, are time consuming and costly to resolve, and could require expensive changes in our methods of doing business, could require us to enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements, or could require us to cease conducting certain operations. Any of these events could result in increases in operating expenses or could limit or reduce the number of our service offerings. If we are unable to successfully defend against legal actions, we could face substantial liabilities. We are currently a party to various legal actions, including consumer class action and patent litigation. Defending against these lawsuits may involve significant expense and diversion of management's attention and resources from other matters. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation, we may not prevail in these actions. In addition, our ongoing operations may subject us to litigation risks and costs in the future. Both the costs of defending lawsuits and any settlements or judgments against us could materially and adversely affect our operating expenses and liquidity. Our business depends on the continued development of effective business support systems, processes and personnel. Our business relies on our data, billing and other operational and financial reporting and control systems. All of these systems have become increasingly complex, largely due to the increased regulation over controls and procedures. To effectively manage our technical support infrastructure, we will need to continue to upgrade and improve our data, billing, and other operational and financial systems, procedures and controls. These upgrades and improvements will require additional costs, a dedication of resources and in some cases are likely to be complex. If we are unable to adapt our systems in a timely manner, our business may be adversely affected. We may be unable to hire and retain sufficient qualified personnel, and the loss of any of our key executive officers could adversely affect us. Our business depends on our ability to attract, hire and retain highly skilled and qualified managerial, professional and technical personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is intense. During 2007, we implemented a corporate restructuring plan, which may harm our ability to hire and retain key personnel. Effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. Failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. Finally, the loss of any of our key executives could have a material adverse effect on us. 18 Our VoIP business exposes us to certain risks that could cause us to lose customers, expose us to significant liability or otherwise harm our business. Our VoIP service depends on growth in the number of VoIP subscribers, which in part depends on wider public acceptance of VoIP telephony. Potential new subscribers may view VoIP as unattractive relative to traditional telephone services for a number of reasons, including the perception that the price advantage for VoIP is insufficient to justify the perceived inconvenience. Our E911 emergency service is different in significant respects from the emergency calling services offered by traditional wireline telephone companies. Those differences may cause significant delays, or even failures, in callers' receipt of the emergency assistance they need. If one of our customers experiences a broadband or power outage, or if a network failure were to occur, the customer will not be able to reach an emergency services provider. Delays or failures in receiving emergency services can be catastrophic. VoIP providers are not currently protected by legislation, so any resulting liability could be substantial. Any of these factors could cause us to lose revenues, incur greater expenses or cause our reputation or financial results to suffer. Our VoIP service, including our E911 service, depends on the proper functioning of facilities and equipment owned and operated by third parties and is, therefore, beyond our control. Our VoIP service requires our customers to have an operative broadband Internet connection and an electrical power supply, which are provided by the customer's Internet service provider, which may or may not be us, and electric utility company, respectively. If our third party service providers fail to maintain these facilities properly, or fail to respond quickly to problems, our customers may experience service interruptions. Interruptions in our service could cause us to lose customers or cause us to offer substantial customer credits, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. If interruptions adversely affect the perceived reliability of our service, we may have difficulty attracting new customers and our brand, reputation and growth may be negatively impacted. We may not be able to sell our municipal wireless broadband assets and that we may incur additional losses related to these operations. We are currently pursuing the sale of our municipal wireless broadband assets. After thorough review and analysis of our municipal wireless operations, we decided that it was no longer consistent with the objective of maximizing shareholder value. The decision to eliminate the operations has resulted in impairment losses recognized during the year ended December 31, 2007. There is no assurance we will be able to sell these assets. We also may incur further impairment losses and transition, wind-up and legal expenses, any of which could cause our operating results to decline. We may not realize the benefits we sought from our investment in the HELIO joint venture. We have made $210.0 million of cash investments in HELIO, a joint venture with SK Telecom that offers wireless voice and data services to consumers in the U.S. The financing of HELIO's operations has adversely affected our cash position. In addition, HELIO will require additional funding in the future and HELIO has incurred losses and we expect HELIO to continue to incur losses. In addition, HELIO may not be successful in implementing and marketing its wireless voice and data initiatives, and there can be no assurance that these initiatives will be commercially successful. We cannot assure you HELIO will be able to achieve or maintain adequate market share or revenue or compete effectively. Our investment in the HELIO joint venture may not provide the economic returns we sought. The use of our net operating losses and certain other tax attributes could be limited in the future. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $677.6 million of tax net operating losses for federal income tax purposes and approximately $290.8 million of tax net operating losses for state income tax purposes. The tax net operating losses for state income tax purposes began to expire in 2006 and the tax 19 net operating losses for federal income tax purposes begin to expire in 2020. Due to uncertainties in projected future taxable income, valuation allowances have been established against deferred tax assets for book accounting purposes. Currently, these tax net operating losses can accumulate and be used to offset any of our future taxable income. However, an "ownership change" that occurs during a "testing period" (as such terms are defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended) could place significant limitations, on an annual basis, on the use of such net operating losses to offset future taxable income we may generate. In general, future stock transactions and the timing of such transactions could cause an "ownership change" for income tax purposes. Such transactions may include our purchases under our share repurchase program, additional issuances of common stock by us (including but not limited to issuances upon future conversion of our outstanding convertible senior notes), and acquisitions or sales of shares by certain holders of our shares, including persons who have held, currently hold, or may accumulate in the future five percent or more of our outstanding stock. Many of these transactions are beyond our control. Calculations of an "ownership change" under Section 382 are complex and to some extent are dependent on information that is not publicly available. However, we believe that as a result of recent transactions in our common stock, the risk of an "ownership change" occurring could increase if additional shares are repurchased, if additional persons acquire five percent or more of our outstanding common stock in the near future and/or current five percent stockholders increase their interest. (In analyzing this risk, we do not think that holdings of independently managed mutual funds would be combined for purposes of calculating who is a five percent stockholder under Section 382.) Due to this risk, we will monitor our purchases of additional shares of our common stock. Our stock price has been volatile historically and may continue to be volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to fluctuations. Our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in results of operations; announcements of new products, services or pricing by us or our competitors; the emergence of new competing technologies; developments in our business strategy; changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us; and news reports relating to trends in the markets in which we operate or general economic conditions. In addition, the stock market in general and the market prices for Internet-related companies in particular, have experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our stock, regardless of our operating performance. Additionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, many of whom have been granted stock incentive awards. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and limit our ability to react to changes in our industry. As of December 31, 2007, we had $258.8 million of indebtedness outstanding due to the issuance of our 3.25% Convertible Senior Notes Due 2026 (the "Notes") in November 2006. Our indebtedness could have important consequences to us. For example, it could: •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund our business activities; •limit our ability to secure additional financing, if necessary; 20 •increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; •place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that may have proportionately less debt; and •restrict us from making strategic acquisitions, introducing new technologies or otherwise exploiting business opportunities. We may be unable to repurchase the Notes for cash when required by the holders, including following a fundamental change, or to pay the cash portion of the conversion value upon conversion of any Notes by the holders. Holders of the Notes have the right to require us to repurchase the Notes on November 15, 2011, November 15, 2016 and November 15, 2021 or upon the occurrence of a fundamental change prior to maturity. Moreover, upon conversion of the Notes, we are required to settle a portion of the conversion value in cash. Any of our future debt agreements may contain similar repurchase and cash settlement provisions. We may not have sufficient funds to make the required cash payment upon conversion or to purchase or repurchase the Notes in cash at such time or the ability to arrange necessary financing on acceptable terms. In addition, our ability to pay cash upon conversion or to purchase or repurchase the Notes in cash may be limited by law or the terms of agreements relating to our debt outstanding at the time, if any. However, if we fail to repurchase or purchase the Notes or pay cash upon conversion as required by the indenture for the Notes, it would constitute an event of default under the indenture, which, in turn, would constitute an event of default under our other debt agreements, if any. In addition, the requirement to pay the fundamental change repurchase price, including the related make whole premium, may discourage a change in control of our company. The convertible notes hedge and warrant transactions may affect the value of our common stock. In November 2006, in connection with the offering of our Notes, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions and warrant transactions with affiliates of UBS Investment Bank and Banc of America Securities LLC. These transactions are expected to offset the potential dilution upon conversion of the Notes. In connection with hedging these transactions, such affiliates of UBS Investment Bank and Banc of America Securities LLC: •entered into various over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to our common stock, and may purchase our common stock; and •may enter into, or may unwind, various over-the-counter derivatives and purchase or sell our common stock in secondary market transactions. Such activities could have the effect of increasing, or preventing a decline in, the price of our common stock. These affiliates of UBS Investment Bank and Banc of America Securities LLC are likely to modify their hedge positions from time to time prior to conversion or maturity of the Notes or termination of the transactions by purchasing and selling shares of our common stock, other of our securities, or other instruments they may wish to use in connection with such hedging. In addition, we intend to exercise options we hold under the convertible note hedge transactions whenever Notes are converted. In order to unwind their hedge position with respect to those exercised options, these affiliates of UBS Investment Bank and Banc of America Securities LLC expect to sell shares of our common stock in secondary market transactions or unwind various over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to our common stock during the conversion reference period for the converted Notes. The effect, if any, of any of these transactions and activities on the market price of our common stock will depend in part on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time, but any of these activities 21 could adversely affect the value of our common stock. In addition, in the event that these transactions fail to offset all of the dilution resulting from the conversion of the Notes, the issuance of additional shares of our common stock as a consequence of such conversion would result in some dilution to our shareholders and could adversely affect the value of our common stock. Provisions of our second restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and other elements of our capital structure could limit our share price and delay a change of management. Our second restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and shareholder rights plan contain provisions that could make it more difficult or even prevent a third party from acquiring us without the approval of our incumbent board of directors. These provisions, among other things: •divide the board of directors into three classes, with members of each class to be elected in staggered three-year terms; •limit the right of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; and •authorize the board of directors to issue preferred stock in one or more series without any action on the part of stockholders. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and significantly impede the ability of the holders of our common stock to change management. In addition, we have adopted a rights plan, which has anti-takeover effects. The rights plan, if triggered, could cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire our common stock on terms not approved by the board of directors. These provisions and agreements that inhibit or discourage takeover attempts could reduce the market value of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 