RISK FACTORS Risks relating to our businesses include the following: We have been operating at a net loss for each fiscal year since the fiscal year ended April 30, 2002, and have had negative operating cash flow in fiscal 2002 and 2003. We have been operating at a net loss for each fiscal year since the fiscal year ended April 30, 2002. Our net loss for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2002 was $102.8 million. Our net loss for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2003 was $99.1 million. Our net loss for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2004 was $16.7 million. Our net loss for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2005 was $60.4 million, and we have also had negative operating cash flow in fiscal 2002 and 2003. We cannot assure you that we will return to profitability in the near future. Due to insufficient cash generated from operations, we have funded our operations primarily through the sale of equity and debt securities, borrowings, equipment lease financings and other financing arrangements. While we have been implementing cost reduction programs since the end of the January 2002 quarter, we continue to have significant fixed expenses, and we expect to continue to incur considerable expenses associated with the completion of the move of our manufacturing operations to China, as well as incurring other manufacturing, sales and marketing, product development and administrative expenses. We are also obligated to make significant interest payments on our 9.25% senior notes due 2011 of approximately $6.9 million on August 1 and February 1 of each year. As a result of this negative cash flow and our ongoing expenditure requirements, even with the financing commitments from our two principal shareholder groups we may be required to seek new or alternative financing to fund our operations in the future. Our ability to raise any future additional or alternate financing will be limited by our future financial situation and market conditions, as well as the covenants in our 9.25% senior notes due 2011 and requirements to obtain approval of certain types of financings from our shareholders. It may be difficult for us to raise additional capital if and when it is required. If we are unable to raise future additional or alternate financing when needed any of the following may occur: • Our customer relationships and orders with our customers could deteriorate; • Suppliers would be less willing to supply us product or extend credit on acceptable terms, if at all; 4 Table of Contents • Employee attrition could increase; and • Lenders could be unwilling to provide or refinance our debt. If adequate capital is not available to us as required, or if it is not available on favorable terms, our business and financial condition would be affected and we may not be able to meet our obligations as they come due. Our financing commitments from QPL International Holdings Limited (“QPL”) and several private equity funds managed by JPMP Master Fund Manager, L.P. (“JPMP”) are subject to a number of conditions that we may not be able to satisfy, and therefore we may not be able to obtain all or any portion of the funds purported to be available under these commitments. In July 2005, we obtained commitments from QPL and JPMP for them and their affiliates to provide us with up to $30 million financing, subject to our meeting certain specified conditions set forth in the commitment documentation. The commitments are comprised of a commitment to purchase $15 million of our convertible preferred shares and a $15 million purchase money loan commitment. These principal shareholder groups will receive warrants in connection with these commitments. See “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a detailed description of this convertible preferred shares commitment and purchase money loan commitment. Our ability to obtain financing under these commitments is subject to a number of important conditions. The satisfaction of certain of these conditions , including QPL obtaining shareholder approval of its convertible preferred share commitment, if and as required by the Hong Kong Stock Exchange, is outside our control. If we are unable to meet any of these conditions or any other condition set forth in the commitment documentation, we will not be able to receive any funds under the commitments. If we are unable to obtain any funds under these commitments, we will need to seek alternative capital from other financing arrangements, sell assets, or seek to undertake a restructuring of our obligations with our creditors, and we cannot give assurances that we will be able to accomplish any of these measures on commercially reasonable terms if at all. We are controlled by two principal groups of shareholders, and their interests may conflict with your interest. Several private equity funds separately managed by or affiliated with JPMP (formerly Chase Capital Partners), Olympus Capital Holdings Asia and Orchid Hong Kong Investment Holdings, respectively, referred to as the “investor group” in this report, collectively owned approximately 42.0% of the outstanding ordinary shares of ASAT Holdings as of April 30, 2005. The investor group has signed a co-investment agreement generally to vote in unison on certain matters. QPL and its controlling shareholder collectively owned approximately 42.5% of the ordinary shares of ASAT Holdings as of April 30, 2005. In addition, the investor group can acquire additional shares of ASAT Holdings from QPL in satisfaction of indemnification claims against QPL and under a credit support arrangement with creditors of QPL. The investor group and QPL together control ASAT Holdings’ board of directors, management and policies. The investor group and QPL are not obligated to provide any financing under their current shareholders agreement. The investor group and QPL are not obligated to exercise their rights as shareholders in the interests of ASAT Holdings and may engage in activities that conflict with such interests. We have not established, and may be unable to establish, any procedures for resolving actual or perceived conflicts of interest between our principal shareholders and our other investors. See “Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions”. Furthermore, disagreements between the investor group and QPL which cannot be resolved could adversely affect the management of our company. QPL and the investor group are subject to a shareholders agreement and vote together on certain matters, including on the election of directors. We will require a significant amount of cash to fund operating and capital expenditures, including the completion of the move of our manufacturing operation to Dongguan China, and to service our debt. Our ability to fund operating and capital expenditures and to service debt will depend significantly on our ability to generate cash from operations. For the fiscal year ended April 30, 2004, the earnings to fixed charges 5 Table of Contents deficiency was $16.7 million and for the year ended April 30, 2005, the earnings to fixed charges deficiency was $59.7 million. For the purpose of this calculation, “earnings” consisted of income (loss) before income taxes and fixed charges, and “fixed charges” consisted of interest expense, including amortization of debt discount and debt issuance costs, and the interest portion within rental expenses which is estimated as one-third of the rental expenses relating to operating leases. We will need to continue generating cash flow in excess of current levels to fund operating and capital expenditures, particularly the completion of the move of our manufacturing operations to China, and to service debt, including our 9.25% senior notes due 2011. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to generate cash flow or obtain funds from our $30 million preferred shares and purchase money loan commitments from two of our principal shareholder groups to fund our planned operations and capital expenditures. In order to obtain funds pursuant to these financing commitments we will be required to meet specified conditions. If we are unable to meet these conditions, we will not obtain the financing from these two principal shareholder groups. In addition, our ability to generate cash from operations is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, industry, legal and other factors and conditions, many of which are outside our control. In particular, our operations are subject to cyclical downturns and price and demand volatility in the semiconductor industry. If we cannot generate sufficient cash to service our debt or obtain financing, we may have to, among other things, reduce capital expenditures associated with the completion of the move of our manufacturing operations to China and other capital and research and development expenditures, sell assets, restructure our debt, or obtain alternate financing, which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. We might not be able to take these actions or they may not be successful. Our ability to take many of these steps may be subject to approval by future creditors, our shareholders and the holders of the 9.25% senior notes due 2011. Our business is and will continue to be substantially affected by the highly cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry, which cyclicality is beyond our control. Our business is substantially affected by market conditions in the semiconductor industry, which is highly cyclical. The industry has been subject to significant downturns characterized by reduced product demand, increased competition and declines in average selling prices and margins. Semiconductor industry conditions are often affected by manufacturing over-capacity and declining demand and reduced pricing in end-user markets. Beginning in the fourth quarter of calendar year 2000, the semiconductor industry experienced a severe downturn. Accordingly, our customers cut back production orders, reflecting inventory corrections and lower demand experienced in their end-user markets. This downturn had a very pronounced and adverse effect on our sales and financial performance. In particular, we suffered the adverse implications of declining average selling prices, or ASPs, for assembled units. In part, this decline in ASPs reflected a shift in product mix to lower cost devices. However, a significant part of this decline in ASPs resulted from external pricing pressures throughout the downturn. In the event of future ASPs declines, we will need to continue to expand our production capacity and throughput to maintain or increase our revenues. While the semiconductor industry experienced a modest recovery in the second quarter of calendar year 2002 and the overall demand for semiconductors increased significantly during the period from the second quarter of calendar year 2003 through the first quarter of calendar year 2004, in the July 2004 quarter the semiconductor industry experienced another downturn and our net sales on a quarterly basis have decreased since that time. If this or any other future downturn in the semiconductor industry proves to be similar to the 2000 downturn, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected and further erode our cash position and, we may be required to seek new financing, which may not be obtainable on acceptable terms or at all. We may also be required to reduce our capital expenditures, which in turn could hinder our ability to implement our business plan, including the move of a substantial portion of our manufacturing facilities to Dongguan, China, and to maintain our competitiveness. Because of the downturn in the industry and the uncertainty of the recent gradual recovery, we continue to re-evaluate our product mix and the direction of 6 Table of Contents our business. This re-evaluation as a result of the downturn led to significant write-downs of property, plant and equipment of $81.8 million for the year ended April 30, 2003 and $19.9 million for the year ended April 30, 2005. We may need to make additional write-downs in the future. Our principal market is in the communications sector, which is subject to fluctuating demand and continuous downturn pressure on selling prices. A significant percentage of our net sales is derived from customers who use assembly or test services for semiconductor devices used in the communications sector. Sales to the communication sector comprised 61% and 54% of total net sales for fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2005, respectively. This sector has been subject to extreme fluctuations in demand and, as a result, in the past we have experienced a prolonged industry-wide slowdown in demand in the communication sector. Historically, the average selling price of communication products has continued to decrease, and the resulting pricing pressure on services provided by us has led to reductions in our net sales and decreasing margins. For the past three years, we have embarked upon a strategy to diversify our customer base and reduce dependency on the communications sector. Some of the other market sectors into which we seek to diversify our customer base include the consumer, personal computers/computing and automotive/industrial sectors. However decreasing average selling prices could also affect products in these sectors. Moreover, the execution of our strategy continues to take time and may ultimately not be successfully implemented, especially if other independent assembly and test companies were to focus on the same market sectors that we have targeted. If we are unable to successfully implement our diversification strategy, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our ability to rapidly develop and successfully bring to market advanced technologies and services is important to maintaining our competitive position and profitability. The semiconductor industry is characterized by rapid technological developments and our research and development efforts may not yield commercially viable packages or test services to keep up with these technological changes. Any inability to meet our customers’ schedules for new product introductions could affect our revenue, prospects for growth and future customer relationships. Our customers seek advanced and quick time-to-market assembly and test capabilities for their increasingly complex end-user applications. Failure to advance our designs and process technologies successfully and in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our competitiveness and our profitability. Technological advances typically lead to rapid and significant decreases in prices for older products. Extended reliance on older products would reduce our gross margins and profitability, as prices decline in the face of newer, higher performance products. We could be required to incur significant capital expenditures for manufacturing technology and equipment to remain competitive. Semiconductor manufacturing has historically required, and in the future is likely to continue to require, a constant upgrading of process technology to remain competitive, as new and enhanced semiconductor processes are developed which permit the manufacture of smaller, more efficient and more powerful semiconductor devices. Our assembly and test facilities have required and will continue to require significant investments in manufacturing technology and equipment in the future. We have made substantial capital expenditures and installed significant production capacity to support new technologies and increase production volume. We expect an increase in capital expenditures in connection with Phase II of our move to Dongguan, China. Although we cannot presently estimate the amount of this increase in capital expenditures beyond our fiscal year 2005, it could be significant. As of April 30, 2005, we had commitments for capital expenditures of approximately $21.1 million, which included the completion of the interior finish and fixtures for the Phase II facility. We currently intend to fund these capital expenditures with the existing cash resources and positive cash flow generated from the savings, if any, expected to be realized from reductions in cost structure associated with the completion of the 7 Table of Contents move of our manufacturing operations to Dongguan, China and from financing commitments from two of our principal shareholder groups. However, these financing commitments are subject to a number of conditions, and we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient capital resources to make further necessary investments in manufacturing technology and equipment. In addition, due to the long lead-time involved in the pre-deployment development and product qualification activities that must precede a new product release, we may be called upon to make substantial investments in both package design efforts and in new manufacturing equipment well in advance of our being able to record appreciable revenues derived from those new products. Further, during each stage of the long qualification process required by customers for our products, which can take up to six months to complete, there is a substantial risk that we will have to abandon a potential assembly or test service which is no longer marketable or technologically feasible or competitive and in which we have invested significant resources. Even if we are able to qualify new packages, a significant amount of time will have elapsed between our investment in new packages and the receipt of any related revenues. Because our industry is highly competitive and many of our competitors have greater operating and financial resources, we may not be able to secure new customers or maintain our customer base. The semiconductor packaging and test industry is highly competitive, with more than 40 independent providers of semiconductor assembly services worldwide. We believe our principal competitors include Advanced Semiconductor Engineering, Inc., Amkor Technology, Inc., Carsem (M) Sdn. Bhd. (a division of the Hong Leong Group), Siliconware Precision Industries Co., Ltd. and STATS ChipPAC Ltd. Many of our competitors have greater operating capacity, financial resources than we do and have proven research and development and marketing capabilities. If demand for semiconductor assembly and test services were to continue to increase, our competitors would be at an advantage to us to capture this increased demand by utilizing their greater financial resources to more rapidly increase capacity. Many of our competitors also have established relationships with many large semiconductor companies that are current or potential customers of us. Further, lengthy qualification periods and a familiarity between potential customers and their current assembly service providers may limit our ability to secure new customers. We also compete indirectly with the in-house assembly and test service resources of many of our largest customers, the integrated device manufacturers, or IDMs. These IDM customers may decide to shift some or all of the assembly and test services to internally sourced capacity. Due to this highly competitive environment, we may experience difficulties in securing business from new customers, additional business from our existing customers or even maintaining our current level of business with our existing customers. In addition, if the trend for semiconductor companies to outsource their packaging needs does not continue, we may not be able to maintain our customer base and our business and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. If any of our competitors grow through acquisitions and we are unable to similarly grow, we may have difficulties competing against those competitors in terms of volume production, price competitiveness and array of services. Some of our competitors with greater financial resources have been able to grow through acquisitions. There have been instances where one of our competitors has acquired the entire back-end assembly operations of an IDM. For example, Amkor acquired a substantial portion of the IBM assembly and test operation in China and Singapore. Another example of merger and acquisition activity among our competitors is the acquisition of ChipPAC, Inc. by ST Assembly Test Services Ltd. As a result of such growth through acquisitions, these competitors will have increased capacity and may be better positioned to increase their market share by decreasing prices. Additionally, as a result of such acquisitions, these competitors may be able to provide a broader array of services. If we are unable to grow our business through acquisitions, we may have difficulties 8 Table of Contents competing successfully against these competitors. In addition, the indenture that governs our 9.25% senior notes due 2011 requires us to comply with certain covenants that limit our ability to enter into mergers or consolidations. We face risks associated with potential acquisitions, investments, strategic partnerships or other ventures, including whether we can identify opportunities, complete the transactions and integrate the other parties into our business. We believe that the semiconductor packaging may undergo consolidation, both with regard to consolidation among independent assembly services providers and with respect to the outsourcing of in-house assembly capacity of semiconductor IDMs. We believe it may become increasingly important to acquire or make investments in complementary business, facilities, technologies, services or products, or enter into strategic partnerships with parties who can provide access to those assets, if appropriate opportunities arise. From time to time we have had discussions with companies regarding our acquiring, investing in or partnering with their businesses, products, services or technologies, and we regularly engage in such discussions in the ordinary course of our business. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition, investment, strategic or other partnership candidates, which may place us at a disadvantage if our competitors are able to grow their market share through acquisitions, investments or strategic partnerships. If we do identify suitable candidates, we may not be able to complete those transactions on commercially acceptable terms or at all. If we acquire another company, we could have difficulty in integrating that company’s personnel, products, operations and technology. In addition, the key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses and reduce the expected benefits of the acquisition. Our assembly and test processes are complex and prone to error, which may create defects and adversely affect production yields. Assembly services are prone to human error and equipment malfunction. Defective packages may also result from: • improper programming of customer specified manufacturing instructions; • contaminants in the manufacturing environment; • equipment deviations from process specifications; • the use of defective raw materials; or • defective vendor provided leadframes or component parts. These factors have periodically contributed to lower production yields and may continue to do so, particularly in connection with any expansion of capacity or change in processing steps. In addition, our production yields on new packaging technologies could be lower during the period necessary for us to develop the requisite expertise and experience with these processes. Any failure by us to maintain high quality standards, acceptable production yields, if significant and sustained, could result in delays in shipments, increased costs or cancellation of orders, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In order to meet customer demands for package design, assembly and test services, we may be required to add new test equipment, which can be very capital intensive and may not result in expected revenues and/or margins. We provide our customers with package design, assembly and test services. Many of our customers seek to do business with independent assemblers who can provide a full range of assembly and test services, particularly 9 Table of Contents testing of mixed-signal semiconductors which perform both analog and digital functions. In order to satisfy such customers’ demands, we may be called upon to acquire additional test equipment capacity, which could require us to increase our capital expenditures on test equipment. Additionally, the use of mixed-signal test equipment involves complex software programming and the use of sophisticated and expensive equipment operated by a highly skilled workforce. However, customers requesting these types of test services are typically not willing to commit to the utilization of such additional capacity beyond their short-term forecasts. If these customers do not place their expected orders or we experience a general decrease in demand for our test services, we could have excess capacity and low utilization rates for our test equipment, which could increase our costs and negatively affect our expected revenues and/or margins. In addition, any failure by us to provide package design, assembly and test services could result in the loss of customers or sales of our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Our profitability has in past periods been affected by low capacity utilization rates, which are significantly influenced by factors outside of our control. As a result of the capital intensive nature of our business, our operations are characterized by high fixed costs. Consequently, insufficient utilization of installed capacity can negatively affect our profitability. For example, in fiscal year 2003, our capacity utilization rates ranged from averages of approximately 42% to 67% per month for our assembly operations as a result of the weak demand for our assembly and test services resulting from the prolonged downturn in the semiconductor industry. In addition, as a result of the most recent industry downturn, which occurred in late 2004, our capacity utilization rates averaged approximately 68% in fiscal year 2005. If we experience low capacity utilization in future periods, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our customers generally do not place purchase orders far in advance, which makes it difficult for us to predict our future sales, adjust our production costs and efficiently allocate our capacity on a timely basis and could therefore have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. Although our customers provide us with forecasts of their expected orders, our customers generally do not place purchase orders far in advance of the required shipping dates. In addition, due to the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry, our customers’ purchase orders have varied significantly from period to period. As a result, we do not typically operate with any significant backlog, which makes it difficult for us to forecast our sales in future periods. Also, since our costs of sales and operating expenses have high fixed cost components, including depreciation and employee costs, we may be unable to adjust our cost structure in a timely manner to compensate for shortfalls in sales. Our current and anticipated customers may not place orders with us in accordance with our expectations or at all. As a result, it may be difficult to plan our capacity, which requires significant lead time to ramp-up and cannot be altered easily. If our capacity does not match our customer demand, we will either be burdened with expensive and unutilized overcapacity or unable to support our customers’ requirements, both of which would have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We generate a significant amount of revenue from a limited number of customers. The loss of, or reduced purchases by, one or more of our larger customers may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. For the year ended April 30, 2005, our top five largest customers by net sales accounted for approximately 53.9% of net sales and our top ten largest customers by net sales accounted for approximately 69.5% of net sales. Our largest customer for that year by net sales accounted for approximately 21.1% of net sales. For the fiscal year ended April 30, 2004, our top five largest customers by net sales accounted for approximately 56.8% of net sales and our top ten largest customers by net sales accounted for approximately 74.3% of net sales. Our largest customer for that same year by net sales accounted for approximately 19.0% of net sales. If any key customer were to significantly reduce its purchases from us, our results of operations would likely be adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents While sales to major customers may vary from period to period, a major customer that permanently discontinues or significantly reduces its purchases from us could be difficult to replace. In line with industry practice, new customers usually require us to pass a lengthy and rigorous qualification process that can take up to six months and be a significant cost to the customer. As a result, customers are reluctant to qualify new assembly and test service providers and it may be difficult for us to attract new major customers and/or break into new markets. In addition, if we fail to qualify packages with potential customers or customers with which we have recently become qualified do not use our services, then our customer base could become more concentrated with an even more limited number of customers accounting for a significant portion of our net sales. Furthermore, we believe that once a semiconductor company has selected a particular assembly and test company’s services, the semiconductor company generally relies on that vendor’s packages for specific applications and, to the extent possible, subsequent generations of that vendor’s packages. Accordingly, it may be difficult to achieve significant sales from a customer once it selects another vendor’s assembly and test services. Because a significant portion of our production is in Asia, we are vulnerable to weaknesses in the economies of Asian countries. Most of our important suppliers of raw materials, leadframes and the semiconductor chips delivered to us for assembly and test are located in Asia. Substantially all our customers are United States or European multinational companies and nearly 100% of our invoices are billed in U.S. Dollars. We estimate that approximately 44.3% of our net sales during the year ended April 30, 2005 and 49.3% of our net sales during the year ended April 30, 2004 represented packages shipped to distribution centers and destinations within Asia (including Hong Kong). These factors raise a number of financial, operational and business risks, including: • exposure to regional economic and political developments; • changes in local intellectual property laws and commercial laws; • the imposition of local currency controls; • adverse changes in local tax law, customs duties and procedures; • transportation difficulties; and • unfavorable changes to import/export regulations and procedures. These factors could adversely affect both our operations and the operations of our suppliers and customers. Future economic downturns in Asia or elsewhere would likely be detrimental to our business, financial condition and results of operations. In moving our assembly and test facilities from Hong Kong to Dongguan, China, we may experience unanticipated costs, delays or business interruptions, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In August 2002, we entered into a 15-year lease agreement and a 6-year management agreement with the Dongguan Changan County Changshi Development Company, or “Changshi”, our development partner in the Zhenan Technology and Industrial Park, Changan County, Dongguan City in Dongguan, China. In August 2003, construction and finish of the interior and fixtures of our modern Phase I 180,000 square foot facility was completed by Changshi to our specifications. Upon completion we started moving assembly equipment to this newly built Phase I facility. We have completed our internal qualification and customer qualification runs for the LPCC, TAPP and fpBGA product lines at this new facility. During the year ended April 30, 2005, we continued to make progress in ramping our Phase I facility towards volume production, and we achieved volume production during the last quarter of fiscal year 2005. We have increased the number of customers that have qualified their semiconductor components for assembly in our Phase I facility to 27 as of April 30, 2005. Unit volume 11 Table of Contents production in our Phase I facility also continued to increase during the January 2005 quarter. As of the date of this report, we have transferred approximately 47% of our existing installed assembly and test capacity to China. In May 2004, we entered into another lease agreement with Changshi to build a 300,000 square foot Phase II facility immediately adjacent to our Phase I facility. Construction of the Phase II facility is now complete, and finish of the interior and fixtures of the Phase II facility is expected to be completed in the October 2005 quarter. The Phase II facility lease also includes the participation of the Changshi subsidiary, Dongguan Changan ASAT Semiconductor Assembly and Test Factory, that holds the subject land use rights. Under the terms of the lease agreement, we will lease the completed Phase II facility from Changshi for a period of 15 years. In August 2004, we entered into an agreement to engage a third party vendor, Dongguan Wellmean Decoration Engineering Company Limited, or Wellmean, to complete the interior finish and fixtures in the Phase II facility. The Phase II facility is expected to house substantially all of the balance of our Hong Kong manufacturing operations plus provide space for the future expansion of our assembly and test operations. See “Business—Operation”. We may experience unexpected costs or delays in moving our assembly and test equipment to or fully completing the interior finish and fixtures in the Phase II facility, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. While our assembly and test equipment is in transit and being installed in our facilities in China, we will be unable to use this equipment to generate sales. In addition, we may not be able to achieve such results by such dates if our move is delayed for any reason, if we encounter other unexpected delays or if our customers fail to agree to qualify their products for assembly and/or test in this new facility. Any interruption in manufacturing or delays in shifting capacity to our China plant would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to operate our Chinese manufacturing operations is dependent upon our working relationship with our partner in China. Our development partner in China, Changshi, is an entity established by the Dongguan government to develop and manage several newly designated industrial parks in Changshi prefecture Chang An town, Dongguan City, Guangdong Province. We believe that the interests of Changshi currently are aligned with our interests and its performance during the construction and completion of the interior finish and fixtures of the Phase I facility met or exceeded our expectations with respect to the quality and timeliness of the construction of the Phase I facility. However, Changshi may not continue to perform at these levels or at all during the completion of the interior finish and fixtures of the Phase II facility or during its assistance to us in the operation of the Phase I facility. See “Business Overview—Operations”. Moreover, we could experience difficulties in our relationship with Changshi, and the decisions made by Changshi may not be consistent with our interests, which in either case could be disruptive to our operations. Changshi is the owner of the Phase I land-use right, buildings and interior finish and fixtures and facilitized equipment and Phase II land-use right and buildings and holds the approvals from the Chinese government necessary to conduct our assembly and test operations our Phase I facility. A dispute with Changshi could cause Changshi to be unwilling to perform its contractual obligations as lessor for our Dongguan Facilities. In such circumstances, Changshi could prevent us from operating the facilities, which, following transfer of substantially all of our manufacturing operations to Dongguan, will mean that we would be unable to conduct our business. Although we have the contractual right under our respective leases with Changshi to purchase the Dongguan facilities from Changshi at stipulated times, there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient funds or access to financing in order to purchase the facilities. Any disruption in our business due to a dispute with Changshi may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, if Changshi were to breach one or more of their agreements with us, we would be called upon to initiate binding arbitration in Beijing before the China International Economic and Trade Arbitration Commission. The outcome of any such arbitration would be controlled by Chinese law and could be time consuming and unfavorable to us. 12 Table of Contents Changshi hires our Dongguan employees and we expect these employees to unionize. If we encounter future labor problems, we may fail to deliver our products in a timely manner, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Pursuant to the terms of the management services agreement with Changshi, Changshi began hiring engineering, managerial and direct labor employees for staffing Phase I of the Dongguan facility and these workers will be employees of Changshi. However, these workers will have been selected by us and will be under our direct supervision and control. The employment agreements for the Dongguan workers, which include workplace rules, salaries and benefits, have been drafted and approved by us and we believe that they are fully compliant with the employment laws of China. None of these employees or our other employees are currently represented by a union. However, we expect the workers in our Dongguan factory to unionize, although we are not sure what percentage of this workforce will be affected. It is possible that the union will be subject to collective bargaining and wage agreements. These agreements could increase our labor costs in China and have an adverse impact on our operating results. In addition, once unionized, this workforce may undertake labor protests and work stoppages, which could also have an adverse impact on our operating results. We cannot assure you that any potential issues with the expected labor union or other employees will be resolved favorably for us in the future, that we will be successful in negotiating any potential wage and collective bargaining agreements, that we will not experience significant work stoppages in the future or that we will not record significant charges related to those work stoppages. Operating a new facility in China can be fraught with uncertainty and there can be no assurances that this China facility will bring its intended benefits to us. Many legal, operational and financial risks may prevent us from realizing our intended benefits in China in connection with the completion of the move of our manufacturing operations to Dongguan, China. These risks include: • economic, political and social uncertainties in China; • changes in, and the arbitrary enforcement of, commercial laws, currency controls, import tariffs and duties, customs regulations, and taxation laws in China; • local infrastructure problems, such as electrical power interruptions, in an area that has only recently undergone a very rapid industrial development; • quality problems arising from the start up of new manufacturing processes by operators who lack experience with our sophisticated manufacturing equipment; • transportation difficulties that may be encountered in receiving supplies and/or in shipping finished products by land or by air; • an unwillingness or hesitancy on the part of customers to qualify their products in the new facilities; • an inability to attract and retain sufficient and qualified engineering and management talent and resources; • measures which may be introduced to control inflation or deflation; • changes in the rate or method of taxation; • continuing fluctuations in the value of the Chinese Renminbi currency; • modifications to fiscal, banking or monetary policies to reduce the rate of future growth in China; and • imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion and remittances abroad. 13 Table of Contents While China’s economy has experienced significant growth in the past twenty years, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The Chinese government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall economy in China, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected by governmental control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations applicable to us. The economy in China has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Despite recent transitions to a market-oriented economy, a substantial portion of productive assets in China is still owned by the Chinese government. In addition, the Chinese government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. It also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency denominated obligations, setting monetary and banking policy and providing preferential treatment of particular industries or companies. The Chinese legal system is based on written statutes. These statutes remain largely untested and prior court decisions interpreting them may be noted for reference but have limited value as precedents. Since 1979, the Chinese government has promulgated laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. However, because these laws and regulations are relatively new and because of the limited volume of published cases and their non-binding nature, interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve significant uncertainty. In addition, as the Chinese legal system develops, changes in such laws and regulations, their interpretation or their enforcement may lead to additional restrictions on our business. The Chinese government and provincial and local governments have provided, and continue to provide, various incentives to Chinese domestic companies in the semiconductor industry, which may include our recently formed Chinese subsidiary, in order to encourage development of the industry. Such incentives include tax rebates, reduced tax rates, favorable lending policies and other measures. Any of these incentives could be reduced or eliminated by governmental authorities at any time. Any such reduction or elimination of incentives which may be provided to us could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our corporate structure may restrict our ability to receive dividends from, and transfer funds to, our Chinese operating subsidiary, which could restrict our ability to make payments on our 9.25% senior notes due 2011 or act in response to changing market conditions. While we are a Cayman Islands holding company, we plan in the future to conduct a substantial portion of our assembly and test operations through a newly formed Chinese subsidiary. The ability of this subsidiary to pay dividend and other payments to us may be restricted by factors that include changes in applicable foreign exchange and other laws and regulations. In particular, under China law, a Chinese subsidiary may pay dividends only after at least 10% of its net profit has been set aside as reserve funds, unless such reserves have reached at least 50% of its registered capital. The profit available for distribution from our Chinese subsidiary is determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in China. This calculation may differ from one performed in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“U.S. GAAP”). Our Chinese subsidiary was founded in late December 2004 in connection with Phase II of the transition of our manufacturing operations from Hong Kong to Dongguan, China and has not yet commenced any operations or generated any net profits. Moreover, its registered capital is approximately $33 million, of which approximately $10.6 million has been contributed as of the date of this report, and may be subject to change. The ability of this subsidiary to pay dividends will depend ultimately on the profitability of its business. As a result, we may not have sufficient distributions from our Chinese subsidiary to enable necessary profit distributions to us or any distributions to our shareholders in the future. 14 Table of Contents Payments by our Chinese subsidiary to us other than as dividends, such as payments of loan principal and interest, may be subject to governmental approval and taxation. Any transfer of funds from ASAT Holdings to our Chinese subsidiary, either as a shareholder loan or as an increase in registered capital, is subject to registration or approval of Chinese governmental authorities, including the relevant administration of foreign exchange or other relevant examining and approval authorities. In addition, it is not permitted under China law for our Chinese subsidiary to directly lend money to our Hong Kong or other subsidiaries. Therefore, it is difficult to change our capital expenditure plans once the relevant funds have been remitted to our Chinese subsidiary. These limitations on the free flow of funds between us and our Chinese subsidiary could restrict our ability to act in response to changing market conditions and reallocate funds from our Chinese subsidiary to our other subsidiaries in a timely manner. With most of our operations conducted in our facilities in Hong Kong and China, we are vulnerable to natural disasters, and other disruptive regional events, which could cause us to lose revenue and perhaps lose customers. We currently conduct our assembly operations in our facilities in Hong Kong and China. Significant damage or other impediments to any of these facilities, whether as a result of fire, weather, disease, civil strife, industrial strikes, breakdowns of equipment, difficulties or delays in obtaining imported spare parts and equipment, natural disasters, terrorist incidents, industrial accidents or other causes could temporarily disrupt or even shut down our operations, which would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. For example, our operations in Hong Kong and Dongguan are both vulnerable to regional typhoons that can bring with them destructive winds and torrential rains, which can in turn cause plant closures and transportation interruptions. With respect to our facilities in Hong Kong, we maintain insurance, including business interruption insurance, against some, but not all, of these events. With respect to the facility in Dongguan, China, Changshi has procured insurance covering the buildings and public liability insurance and we have procured insurance covering the contents of the buildings and public liability insurance. Because commercial production has only recently started at the Phase I facility in Dongguan, we have procured business interruption insurance with only limited coverage. We cannot assure you that our insurance or the insurance procured by Changshi would be adequate to cover any direct or indirect loss or liability resulting from any of the events described above. Our new facilities in Dongguan, China have recently become fully operational and any disruptions in available power supply in Dongguan could disrupt our operations, reduce our sales and increase our expenses. As of the date of this report, we have transferred approximately 47% of our existing installed assembly and test capacity to China. Our assembly and test operations in China are dependent on a reliable source of electrical power. For economic and continuous manufacturing operations, we are dependent on electrical power supplied by state run power generating facilities. Although we have installed back-up generators in our new China facility and have dedicated power lines and substations, we will remain dependent on state supplied electrical power. China is now experiencing an electrical power shortfall that is expected to increase in the near term as the imbalance between capacity and demand grows. The projected power shortfall is expected to be most acute in southern China, including Dongguan where the Company’s factory is located. In Dongguan, demand for power exceeded supply during most of calendar year 2003 and 2004. Should our Phase I facility be subject to rolling blackouts or should the power shortage result in brownouts of increased severity, our operations may suffer temporary shutdowns or be otherwise inconvenienced. We believe that the potential for blackouts and brownouts that could affect our operations at the Phase I facility will be highest during warm weather conditions. We currently have a dedicated power supply line for supporting the Phase I facility. This line should not be subject to any rolling blackouts. In addition, we currently have back-up generators that support a portion of production at our Dongguan facilities. However, the dedicated power line may not provide us with adequate power during prolonged blackouts. Phase II of our move to China includes the installation of a separate dedicated power supply line from an alternative power source, which we expect to provide independent and continuous back-up 15 Table of Contents power. Nevertheless, these dedicated power lines may not provide us with adequate power during prolonged blackouts. Any interruption in our ability to continue our operations at the Dongguan facilities could damage our reputation, harm our ability to retain existing customers and to obtain new customers, and could result in lost revenue and increased expenses, any of which would substantially harm our business and results of operations. In addition to the above, if retail electricity prices rise dramatically in Dongguan, we would expect our expenses to increase and our operating results to be adversely affected. We may not be able to continue to reduce our cost structure. Even if we do, it may not reduce our operating expenses by as much as we anticipate. Beginning in 2001, in response to the severe downturn in the semiconductor sector, we began to reduce costs. Since the end of the January 2002 quarter, we have been implementing our corporate restructuring program in order to reduce our overall cost structure and improve profitability. We implemented cost saving measures, including reductions in material, labor, overhead and administrative costs. We continue to reduce our cost structure and are in the process of installing the SAP’s enterprise resource planning solution and Camstar’s manufacturing tracking and execution system to enable us to implement improved business processes. We are also moving our assembly and test facilities from Hong Kong to lower-cost facilities in Dongguan, China. We cannot assure you that these cost saving measures will lead to profitability or that any expected net savings will occur. During the remainder of calendar year 2005, we anticipate that there will be some additional expenses associated with commencing production in our Dongguan facilities and in completing the move of our manufacturing operations to China. In addition, with respect to our new information systems, there can be no assurances that we will not encounter delays, errors or cost-overruns or other adverse consequences in implementing such systems. As we upgrade our information systems, we may encounter difficulties in integrating such technology into our business and we may find that such new systems may not be appropriate for our business. If our new information systems prove to be inadequate or their implementation severely delayed, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. We rely on the development and perfection of ownership interests in a substantial amount of intellectual property in our business. If we are unable to protect this intellectual property, we may lose advantages in innovation over our competitors. We have patents, confidentiality agreements, and other arrangements intended to protect certain of our proprietary manufacturing processes and product technologies. As of April 30, 2005, we had approximately two dozen issued U.S. patents. In addition, in May 2005, we entered into a multi-year cross-licensing agreement with LSI Logic Corporation (“LSI”) under which LSI will provide us with a license to use its Flip Chip Semiconductor package assembly technology. During the April 2005 quarter, we entered into a multi-year cross licensing agreement with Amkor Technology, Inc. (“Amkor”) under which we will provide Amkor with a license for our TAPP semiconductor package technology and Amkor will provide us with a license for its Flip Chip semiconductor package technology. During the October 2003 quarter, we also entered into a “quad flat pack no lead” chipscale package, or QFN, patent cross-license agreement with Amkor. These protections and any future measures we take might not adequately cover or protect our intellectual property. In particular, our competitors may be able to develop similar or superior products or manufacturing technologies, and many of these competitors invest greater amounts of capital towards such development efforts than we do. As a result, our patent portfolio may not have the breadth or depth of that of some of our competitors. Also, we cannot assure you that the Asian countries in which we manufacture and market our products will protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as does the United States. That could leave us vulnerable to willful patent infringement or to the theft of trade secret information. However, even if we have valid protections in place, we may not have sufficient financial and legal resources to protect or enforce our rights. Furthermore, because many of our products and technologies are not covered by any patents or pending patent applications, they are susceptible to independent duplication and/or reverse engineering by competitors. 16 Table of Contents We are vulnerable to intellectual property infringement claims by third parties and may need to enforce our intellectual property rights against third parties. The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent claims regarding patent infringement. From time to time, third parties may claim that we are infringing on their intellectual property rights. Such claims could have a serious adverse effect on our business and financial condition. If a third party were to bring a valid legal claim against us for patent infringement, we could be required to: • discontinue the use of any of our processes considered infringing; • cease the manufacture, use, import and sale of infringing products; • pay substantial royalties and/or damages; • develop non-infringing technologies; or • acquire licenses to the technology that we had allegedly infringed. We may seek licenses from such parties, but they could either refuse to grant us a license or demand commercially unreasonable terms. We might not have sufficient resources both to pay for the licenses and to remain competitive. Such infringement claims could also cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to have to suspend or permanently cease the use of critical technologies or processes for the production and/or sale of major products. For instance, we recently settled a patent litigation case with Motorola, Inc. in connection with their claim of a breach under a patent cross-license agreement. See “Information on the Company—Business Overview”. We may also need to enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights against infringement by third parties. If we were called to defend against a claim of patent infringement, or were we compelled to litigate to assert our intellectual property rights, we could incur substantial legal and court costs and be required to consume substantial management time and engineering resources in the process. We could be adversely affected by an adverse outcome in legal proceedings to which we are, or in the future may become, subject. We have in the past and may in the future become involved in various intellectual property, product liability, commercial, environmental, and tax litigations and claims, government investigations and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. Litigation is inherently unpredictable, and we could in the future incur judgment or enter into settlement of claims that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, if we receive a final unsatisfied judgment in any litigation not covered by insurance in excess of $10 million that is not cured within 60 days following such judgment, there will be an event of default under the indenture for the 9.25% senior notes due 2011. Upon an event of default, either the trustee or the holders of at least 25% of the outstanding principal amount of the notes may declare the amounts payable on the notes due and payable. In the event that our obligations on the notes are accelerated at the time when we do not have sufficient funds to repay amount due on the notes, there will be a payment default on the notes and our financial results will be materially adversely affected. The loss of key executive officers and engineers could negatively impact our business prospects. In addition, our inability to retain key personnel at all levels would limit our ability to develop new and enhanced assembly and test services. We depend on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical, managerial, sales and marketing personnel. Competition for highly skilled technical, managerial, sales and marketing personnel is intense, particularly in Hong Kong and Southern China and the retention of skilled engineering personnel in our industry 17 Table of Contents typically requires competitive compensation packages. In attracting and retaining such personnel, we may be required to incur significantly increased compensation costs. We cannot predict whether we will be successful in attracting and retaining the personnel we need to successfully develop and market new and enhanced assembly and test services in order to grow our business and achieve profitability. The loss of key suppliers or their failure to deliver sufficient quantities of materials on a timely basis could negatively impact our business prospects. Our inability to qualify second sources for certain suppliers could limit our production capabilities. The principal materials used in our assembly process are polymer substrates, leadframes, gold wire and plastic molding compounds. In the ordinary course of business, we purchase most of our leadframes from QPL International Holdings Limited and its affiliates, or QPL, our largest affiliated shareholder group, and our substrates from several suppliers in Japan, Korea and Hong Kong. To maintain competitive packaging operations, we must obtain from these suppliers, in a timely manner, sufficient quantities of acceptable quality materials and equipment at competitive prices. We purchase all of our materials on a purchase order basis and, have no long-term contracts with any suppliers, other than the inventory management and supply agreement we entered into with QPL Limited (“QPLL”) and Talent Focus Industries Limited (“Talent Focus”) on June 23, 2005. See “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources. From time to time, particularly during industry upturns, vendors have extended lead times or limited the supply of required materials to us because of vendor capacity constraints and, consequently, we have experienced difficulty in obtaining acceptable materials on a timely basis. In addition, particularly during industry upturns, prices that we pay for materials may increase due to increased industry demand. This increase could negatively impact our operating results especially if we are unable to pass this cost on to our customers. Further, if any of our vendors, particularly QPL, were to cease operations for any reason, we may experience difficulty in obtaining acceptable materials from alternative vendors on a timely, cost-effective basis. For example, in the April 2004 quarter, an upstream vendor to one of our key suppliers announced the discontinuance of the production of metalized tape of a certain composition. This discontinuance forced our suppliers to send “end of life” notices to almost a dozen of its customers, several of whom were highly dependent on products assembled with the discontinued material. Environmental, health and safety laws could impose material liability on us and our financial condition may be negatively affected if we are required to incur significant costs of compliance. Our operations in Hong Kong are subject to environmental, health and safety laws. These Hong Kong laws impose controls on our air and water discharges, on the storage, handling, discharge and disposal of chemicals, and on employee exposure to hazardous substances. If these laws were to change, they could require us to incur costs to maintain compliance and could impose liability to remedy the effects of hazardous substance contamination. Stricter enforcement of existing laws, the adoption of new laws or regulations or our failure to comply with these laws or regulations could cause us to incur material liabilities and require us to incur additional expense, curtail our operations and restrict our ability to grow. In addition, our operations in China will be required to comply with various Chinese environmental laws and regulations administered by the central and local government environmental protection bureaus, including any environmental rules introduced by the local Chinese governments in Dongguan, China. These laws impose controls on our air and water discharges, on the storage, handling, discharge and disposal of chemicals, and on employee exposure to hazardous substances and impose fees for the discharge of waste substances above prescribed levels, require the payment of fines for serious violations and provide that the Chinese national and local governments may at their own discretion close or suspend any facility which fails to comply with orders requiring it to cease or cure operations causing environmental damage. If these laws were to change, they could require us to incur costs to maintain compliance and could impose liability to remedy the effects of hazardous substance contamination. Stricter enforcement of existing laws, the adoption of new laws or regulations or our failure to comply with these laws or regulations could cause us to incur material liabilities and require us to incur additional expense, curtail our operations and restrict our ability to grow. 18 Table of Contents QPL has provided us with chemical waste disposal services in Hong Kong due to our respective manufacturing operations being located in the same building. QPL, which was previously the landlord of our assembly facility in Tsuen Wan, Hong Kong, has provided these services to us pursuant to a license issued to QPL by the Hong Kong government that was required to be renewed by October 31 every other year. However, in June 2003 QPL relocated all of its manufacturing operations from our shared facility to its new facility in Dongguan, China. QPL agreed to continue to renew this license for our Tsuen Wan, Hong Kong facility for our benefit and we received a renewal license in November 2003 that will expire in October 2005. Prior to its expiration, we intend to renew this license ourselves. Any failure by us to obtain or to maintain such a license could materially and adversely affect our operations. We do not anticipate making material environmental capital expenditures in connection with our current operations or the construction of the new facilities in Dongguan, China. However, we cannot predict whether future environmental, health and safety laws in either Hong Kong or China will require additional capital expenditures or impose other process requirements upon us, curtail our operations, or restrict our ability to expand our operations. We could be subject to material liabilities if the governments in Hong Kong or China adopts new environmental, health and safety laws, we fail to comply with new or existing laws, or other issues relating to hazardous substances arise. Recent changes in environmental laws and regulations applicable to manufacturers of electrical and electronic equipment are causing us to redesign certain products, and may increase our costs and expose us to liability. The implementation of new environmental regulatory legal requirements, such as lead free initiatives, could impact our product designs and manufacturing processes. The impact of such regulations on our product designs and manufacturing processes could affect the timing of compliant product introductions, the cost of our products as well as their commercial success. For example, a recent directive in the European Union bans the use of lead and other heavy metals in electrical and electronics equipment beginning in 2006. As a result, in advance of this deadline, some of our customers selling products in Europe have begun demanding products from component manufacturers, such as us, that do not contain these banned substances. Because most of our existing assembly processes utilize a tin-lead alloy as a soldering material in the manufacturing process, in order to continue our product designs and manufacturing processes we must redesign some of our assembly processes and products in response to this new legislation. The redesign may result in increased research and development costs and manufacturing and quality control costs. In addition, the products we assemble to comply with the new regulatory standards may not perform as well as our current products. Moreover, if we are unable to successfully and timely redesign existing products and introduce new products that meet the standards set by environmental regulation and our customers, sales of our products could decline, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of our costs are denominated in foreign currencies and the continued depreciation of the U.S. dollar against such foreign currencies, including the Chinese Renminbi, could increase these costs. While substantially all of our revenues are U.S. dollar denominated, a portion of our costs are denominated in other currencies, primarily Hong Kong dollars, Chinese Renminbi and, to a lesser extent, Japanese yen. The Hong Kong dollar historically has accounted for the largest share of our costs. Because the exchange rate of the Hong Kong dollar to the U.S. dollar has remained close to the current linked rate of HK$7.80 = $1.00 since 1983, we have not experienced significant foreign exchange gains or losses associated with that currency. However, the Hong Kong government could change the linked rate or abandon the link altogether. The Japanese yen has fluctuated significantly against the U.S. dollar in recent years and may continue to fluctuate. The depreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Hong Kong dollar or Japanese yen would generally increase our Hong Kong dollar or Japanese yen expenses, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Additionally, we expect that our exposure to fluctuations in the value of the Chinese Renminbi will significantly increase due to our new manufacturing facilities in Dongguan, China. From 1994 to July 2005, the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, including Hong Kong and U.S. dollars, was based on rates set by the People’s Bank of China, which were set daily based on the previous day’s interbank foreign market exchange rate and current exchange rates on the world financial markets. As a result, the exchange rate of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar was previously substantially pegged or fixed. On July 21, 2005 the government of China announced that the exchange rate of the Renminbi was being appreciated against the U.S. dollar and that the Renminbi would henceforth have a more flexible exchange rate within a 0.3% band that would float against a basket of unidentified foreign currencies. However, the Chinese government may decide to change or abandon this new policy at its sole discretion at any time in the future. This recent appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and any further appreciation in the exchange rate of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar will increase our costs relating to our planned China operations. Economic, political and legal developments in Hong Kong could affect our business. Our results of operations, financial position and prospects are subject to a significant degree to the economic, political and legal developments in Hong Kong. On July 1, 1997, Hong Kong became a Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China when the People’s Republic of China resumed the exercise of sovereignty over Hong Kong. The basic policies of the People’s Republic of China regarding Hong Kong are embodied in the Basic Law of Hong Kong, which was adopted by the National People’s Congress of the People’s Republic of China on April 4, 1990 and came into effect on July 1, 1997. The Basic Law provides that Hong Kong will have a high degree of autonomy and enjoy executive, legislative and independent judicial power, including that of final adjudication, in accordance with the provisions of the Basic Law. Under the principle of “one country, two systems,” the socialist system and policies will not be practiced in Hong Kong, and the previous capitalist system and way of life shall remain unchanged for 50 years. There can be no assurance that economic, political and legal developments in Hong Kong will not adversely affect our operations. Outbreaks of epidemics and communicable diseases in Hong Kong, China and other parts of Asia may disrupt our business operations, causing us to lose customers and revenue. In early calendar year 2003, China, Hong Kong and certain other countries, largely in Asia, experienced the spread of the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS, virus. The SARS virus was believed to have first originated in Southern China and then spread to Hong Kong before becoming an international health concern. The World Health Organization and several countries issued travel warnings against international travel to Hong Kong, China and several other Asian nations during the period of the alert. This severely curtailed customer visits to our facilities. In addition, we have been unable to obtain insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates for business interruptions resulting from the spread of communicable diseases. In that regard, there can be no assurance that the SARS virus and/or a different or even more virulent virus will not make a reappearance in the future. If such an outbreak were to occur in Hong Kong and China, and if the outbreak were to be prolonged, uncontrolled and/or associated with high mortality, our operations could be severely impacted, such as through plant closures and the imposition of other emergency measures, any of which would have material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, any outbreak in any of our premises or manufacturing plants could result in our management and employees being quarantined and our operations being required to be suspended. We may experience seasonality in the sales of our products, which could cause our operating results to be adversely impacted. We may experience a decline in business activity during the Lunar New Year, which is a major holiday celebrated in China and many other countries in Asia. Many businesses within China are closed for a period of approximately 10 days around the Lunar New Year, which occurs in January or February of each year. This could lead to decreased sales during the fiscal quarter in which the Lunar New Year falls. Since we only recently 20 Table of Contents commenced operations in China, to date we have not experienced material seasonality. We expect that as we conduct more of our business in China, we will experience seasonality, although it is difficult for us to evaluate the degree to which seasonality may affect our business in future periods. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our operations. We have a significant amount of indebtedness that will increase further if we are able to borrow funds upon meeting the specified conditions set forth in the purchase money loan commitment from one of our principal shareholder groups. As of April 30, 2005, we had total liabilities of $205.2 million. If new debt is added to our consolidated debt level, the related risks that we now face could intensify. Covenants in the agreements governing our existing debt, and debt we may incur in the future, may materially restrict our operations, including our ability to incur debt, pay dividends, make certain investments and payments, and encumber or dispose of assets. In addition, financial covenants contained in agreements relating to our existing and future debt could lead to a default in the event our results of operations do not meet our plans and we are unable to amend such financial covenants prior to default. A default under one debt instrument may also trigger cross-defaults under our other debt instruments. An event of default under any debt instrument, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us and our capital structure. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to our ability to operate our company. For example, it could: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our ability to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, research and development and other general corporate requirements; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service payments on our debt; • limit our flexibility to react to changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage to any of our competitors that have less debt; and • limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds. We may not be able to finance future needs because of restrictions placed on us by the indenture governing our 9.25% senior notes due 2011. The indenture governing our 9.25% senior notes due 2011 contains, and agreements governing our future debt may contain, various covenants that limit our ability to, among other things: • pay dividends, redeem capital stock and make certain other restricted payments or investments, including loans, guarantees and advances; • incur additional indebtedness, including guarantees, or issue certain equity interests; • merge, consolidate or sell all or substantially all of our assets; • issue or sell capital stock of some of our subsidiaries; • sell or exchange assets or enter into new businesses; • create or permit restrictions on the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to us; 21 Table of Contents • create liens on assets; and • enter into particular types transactions with affiliates or related persons. Our ability to comply with covenants contained in the indenture for our 9.25% senior notes due 2011 and other agreements governing indebtedness to which we may become a party may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. We operate in an industry that requires large capital expenditures in order to stay competitive, and the indenture, and agreements governing other debt we may incur, may limit our ability to finance these capital expenditures. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in an acceleration of our indebtedness and cross-defaults under the agreements governing other indebtedness to which we may become a party. Any such acceleration or cross-default could require us to repay or repurchase debt, together with accrued interest, prior to the date it otherwise is due, which could adversely affect our financial condition. Even if we are able to comply with all applicable covenants, the restrictions on our ability to operate our business in our sole discretion could harm our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, mergers, acquisitions and other corporate opportunities that we believe would be beneficial to us. When we issue preferred shares and warrants in connection with the preferred shares commitment and warrants in connection with the purchase money loan commitment with our two principal shareholder groups, it will have a significant dilutive effect upon our shareholders. As described in “Operative and Financing Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources” and “Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Related Party Transactions” in July 2005, we entered into a preferred shares financing and a purchase money loan financing commitment with our two principal shareholder groups. In addition, we will issue warrants in connection with the preferred shares commitment to the two principal shareholder groups and to a member of the JPMP shareholder group in connection with the purchase money loan commitment, and will be required to issue warrants to these shareholders if we borrow funds under the purchase money loan commitment to the extent such shareholders are lenders and fund the first tranche of loans. If issued pursuant to the terms of the commitment, the holders can convert their preferred shares into ordinary shares at any time prior to their maturity. The initial conversion price of the preferred shares is $0.09 per ordinary share (equivalent to $0.45 per ADS), but would be reset on October 31, 2006 to 80% of the average trading price per share equivalent of our ordinary shares during the preceding three months if such amount were below the conversion price of $0.09 per ordinary share (equivalent to $0.45 per ADS), subject to a floor of $0.065 per ordinary share (equivalent to $0.325 per ADS) each subject to adjustment under anti-dilution provisions. The conversion price will also be subject to weighted average based anti-dilution protection in the event of issuance of certain equity securities and shall be proportionally adjusted for share splits, dividends, re-combinations and similar events. The warrants are exercisable at a price of $0.01 per ordinary share (equivalent to $0.05 per ADS), subject to adjustment for stock splits and certain other situations specified in the warrants. If holders convert the preferred shares or exercise the warrants, we will issue ordinary shares and such issuances will be dilutive to our holders of ordinary shares and ADSs. In addition, if such shareholders sell substantial amounts of their ADSs in the public market during a short period of time, prices of these securities may decline significantly. The market price of our American Depositary Shares, or ADSs, may be volatile and you may not be able to resell your ADSs at or above the price you paid, or at all. In addition, the liquidity of the ADSs may also be adversely affected by any future transfer to the Nasdaq SmallCap Market or delisting Our ADSs have experienced substantial price volatility during the past three years, particularly as a result of variations between our anticipated and actual financial results, the published expectations of analysts, and announcements by our competitors and by us. From time-to-time, this volatility has been exacerbated by the relatively low average daily trading volumes of our ADSs. In addition, the stock market itself has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have negatively affected the market price of the stocks of many technology and manufacturing companies. These factors, as well as general worldwide economic and political conditions, may materially adversely affect the market price of our ADSs in the future. 22 Table of Contents While our ADSs are currently quoted on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol “ASTT”, we have failed in the past to meet the listing requirements for inclusion on the Nasdaq National Market, and may fail to maintain these listing requirements in future periods. On October 17, 2002, we received a compliance notice from The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. stating that, for a period of 30 consecutive trading days, our ADSs had closed below the minimum bid price of $1.00 per share as required under the Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5) for continued listing on the Nasdaq National Market. In accordance with Nasdaq’s Marketplace Rules, we had until April 15, 2003 to regain compliance with the Nasdaq’s continued listing requirements. Because we are unable to demonstrate compliance with the continued listing requirements, the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel determined that we should transfer the listing of our ADSs to The Nasdaq SmallCap Market. In anticipation of this determination, we submitted an application to transfer the listing of our ADSs to the Nasdaq SmallCap Market on June 2, 2003. That application was approved and the transfer of the listing of ours ADSs to The Nasdaq SmallCap Market became effective from July 1, 2003. Our ADSs were quoted on The Nasdaq SmallCap Market from July 1, 2003 to April 12, 2004. On April 12, 2004, the listing of our ADSs on the Nasdaq National Market once again became effective, and we have listed on The Nasdaq National Market since that date. On May 25, 2005, we received a compliance notice from The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. stating that, for a period of 30 consecutive trading days, our ADSs had closed below the minimum bid price of $1.00 per share as required under the Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5) for continued listing on the Nasdaq National Market. In accordance with Nasdaq’s Marketplace Rules, we have until November 21, 2005 to regain compliance with the Nasdaq’s continued listing requirements, and we may be required to transfer the listing of our ADSs to The Nasdaq SmallCap Market again. The liquidity and price of our ADSs could be negatively impacted by any transfer to The Nasdaq SmallCap Market. For example, the demand for our ADSs may be curtailed by certain investment entities that have self-imposed restrictions and/or investment limitations regarding the trading in and holding of securities that are listed on The Nasdaq SmallCap Market. Any of these entities that hold our ADSs prior to a transfer to The Nasdaq SmallCap Market would likely sell their ADSs, which would tend to depress the price of our ADSs. In addition, the quotation of our ADSs on the Nasdaq National Market preempts the operation of the laws of the various U.S. states relating to the qualification of securities. Securities listed on The Nasdaq SmallCap Market do not preempt the operation of these laws and the liquidity of the ADSs may be negatively impacted. If we are unable to meet the listing requirements of the Nasdaq SmallCap Market, our ADSs may not be traded on any market, and the price and liquidity of your ADSs may decline. 23 Table of Contents 