Item 1A. Risk Factors We have identified risk factors described below, which should be viewed in conjunction with the other information contained in this document and information incorporated by reference, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. If any of the following risks or other risks which have not been identified or which we may believe are immaterial or unlikely, actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. As noted previously, this report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including statements about our future plans, objectives, intentions and expectations. Many factors, including those described below, could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in forward-looking statements. Risks Related to Our Business Recent negative developments in the financial services industry and the U.S. and global credit markets may adversely impact our operations and results Negative developments in the latter portion of 2007 and during 2008 in the capital markets have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general with the expectation of the general economic downturn continuing in 2009 and beyond. Loan portfolio performances have deteriorated at many institutions resulting from, among other factors, a weak economy and a decline in the value of the collateral supporting their loans. The competition for our deposits has increased significantly due to liquidity concerns at many of these same institutions. Stock prices of bank holding companies, like ours, have been negatively affected by the current condition of the financial markets, as has our ability, if needed, to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets, compared to prior years. As a result, there is a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and capital and liquidity standards, and financial institution regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of 12 Table of Contents many formal enforcement actions. Negative developments in the financial services industry and the impact of any new legislation in response to those developments could negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. Deterioration in the housing market and homebuilding industry could lead to additional loan losses and reduced earnings There has been substantial industry concern and publicity over asset quality among financial institutions due in large part to issues related to declining real estate values and general economic concerns. As of December 31, 2008, the Banks’ non-performing loans were approximately $19.9 million, or 2.23% of the loan portfolio. Nonperforming assets were approximately $24.8 million as of this same date, or 1.86% of total assets. Furthermore, the housing and the residential markets recently have experienced a variety of difficulties and changed economic conditions. If market conditions continue to deteriorate, they may lead to additional valuation adjustments on the Banks’ loan portfolios and real estate owned as the Banks continue to reassess the market value of their loan portfolios, the losses associated with the loans in default and the net realizable value of real estate owned. The homebuilding industry has experienced a significant and sustained decline in demand for new homes and an oversupply of new and existing homes available for sale in various markets, including the markets in which the Banks lend. Customers who are builders and developers face greater difficulty in selling their homes in markets where these trends are more pronounced. Consequently, the Banks are facing increased delinquencies and non-performing assets as these customers are forced to default on their loans. The Banks do not anticipate that the housing market will improve in the near-term, and accordingly, additional downgrades, provisions for loan losses and charge-offs relating to their loan portfolios may occur. Loan Portfolio includes commercial and industrial loans that have higher risks The Banks’ commercial and commercial real estate loans at December 31, 2008, were $80.5 million and $434.5 million, respectively, or 9.0% and 48.7% of total loans. Commercial and commercial real estate loans generally carry larger loan balances and can involve a greater degree of financial and credit risk than other loans. Any significant failure to pay on time by the Banks’ customers would hurt our earnings. The increased financial and credit risk associated with these types of loans are a result of several factors, including the concentration of principal in a limited number of loans and borrowers, the size of loan balances, the effects of general economic conditions on income-producing properties and the increased difficulty of evaluating and monitoring these types of loans. In addition, when underwriting a commercial or industrial loan, the Banks may take a security interest in commercial real estate, and, in some instances upon a default by the borrower, we may foreclose on and take title to the property, which may lead to potential financial risks for us under applicable environmental laws. If hazardous substances were discovered on any of these properties, we may be liable to governmental agencies or third parties for the costs of remediation of the hazard, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Many environmental laws can impose liability regardless of whether the Banks knew of, or were responsible for, the contamination. Furthermore, the repayment of loans secured by commercial real estate is typically dependent upon the successful operation of the related real estate or commercial project. If the cash flow from the project are reduced, a borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. This cash flow shortage may result in the failure to make loan payments. In such cases, the Banks may be compelled to modify the terms of the loan. In addition, the nature of these loans is such that they are generally less predictable and more difficult to evaluate and monitor. As a result, repayment of these loans may, to a greater extent than residential loans, be subject to adverse conditions in the real estate market or economy. 13 Table of Contents Possible use of more costly brokered deposits We can offer no assurance that the Banks will be able to maintain or increase their market share of deposits in their highly competitive service areas. If they are unable to do so, they may be forced to accept increased amounts of out-of-market or brokered deposits. As of December 31, 2008, the Banks had no brokered deposits. At times, the cost of out-of-market and brokered deposits may exceed the cost of deposits in the local market. In addition, the cost of out-of-market and brokered deposits can be volatile, and if the Banks are unable to access these markets or if costs related to out-of-market and brokered deposits increases, the Banks’ liquidity and ability to support demand for loans could be adversely affected. Our business is subject to the success of the local economies where we operate Our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in our primary and secondary markets. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally continue to remain challenged, our business may be adversely affected. Prolonged adverse economic conditions in our specific market area could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans to us and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are less able than a larger institution to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur. If the value of real estate in our core Florida market were to decline materially, a significant portion of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized, which could have a material adverse effect on us With most of our loans concentrated in Central Florida, a continued decline in local economic conditions could adversely affect the values of our real estate collateral. Consequently, a prolonged decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are geographically diverse. In addition to the financial strength and cash flow characteristics of the borrower in each case, the Banks often secure loans with real estate collateral. At December 31, 2008, approximately 84% of the Banks’ loans have real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. An inadequate allowance for loan losses would reduce our earnings The risk of credit losses on loans varies with, among other things, general economic conditions, the type of loan being made, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the value and marketability of the collateral for the loan. Management maintains an allowance for loan losses based upon, among other things, historical experience, an evaluation of economic conditions and regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality. Based upon such factors, management makes various assumptions and judgments about the ultimate collectibility of the loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses based upon a percentage of the outstanding balances and for specific loans when their ultimate collectibility is considered questionable. If management’s assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect and the allowance for loan losses is inadequate to absorb losses, or if the bank regulatory authorities require the Banks to increase the allowance for loan losses as a part of their examination process, the Banks’ earnings and capital could be significantly and adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents Our business strategy includes continued growth, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively We intend to continue pursuing a growth strategy for our business. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in significant growth stages of development. Particularly in light of prevailing economic conditions, we cannot assure you we will be able to expand our market presence in our existing markets or successfully enter new markets or that any such expansion will not adversely affect our results of operations. Failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, future prospects, financial condition or results of operations, and could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategy. Also, if our growth occurs more slowly than anticipated or declines, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. Our ability to successfully grow will depend on a variety of factors including the continued availability of desirable business opportunities, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in our market areas and our ability to manage our growth. While we believe we have the management resources and internal systems in place to successfully manage our future growth, there can be no assurance growth opportunities will be available or growth will be successfully managed. We may face risks with respect to future expansion We may acquire other financial institutions or parts of those institutions in the future and we may engage in additional de novo branch expansion. We may also consider and enter into new lines of business or offer new products or services. We also may receive future inquiries and have discussions with potential acquirors of us. Acquisitions and mergers involve a number of risks, including: • the time and costs associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and merger partners; • the estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to the target institution may not be accurate; • the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring experienced local management and opening new offices, and the time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion; • our ability to finance an acquisition and possible dilution to our existing shareholders; • the diversion of our management’s attention to the negotiation of a transaction, and the integration of the operations and personnel of the combining businesses; • entry into new markets where we lack experience; • the introduction of new products and services into our business; • the incurrence and possible impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and possible adverse short-term effects on our results of operations; and • the risk of loss of key employees and customers. We may incur substantial costs to expand, and we can give no assurance such expansion will result in the levels of profits we seek. There can be no assurance integration efforts for any future mergers or acquisitions will be successful. Also, we may issue equity securities, including common stock and securities convertible into shares of our common stock in connection with future acquisitions, which could cause ownership and economic dilution to our current shareholders and to investors purchasing common stock in this offering. There is no assurance that, following any future mergers or acquisition, our integration efforts will be successful or our company, after giving effect to the acquisition, will achieve profits comparable to or better than our historical experience. 15 Table of Contents The building of market share throughout our de novo branching strategy could cause our expenses to increase faster than revenues We may continue to build market share in Central Florida through our de novo branching strategy. There are considerable costs involved in opening branches and new branches generally do not generate sufficient revenues to offset their costs until they have been in operation for at least a year or more. Accordingly, our new branches can be expected to negatively impact our earnings for some period of time until the branches reach certain economies of scale. Our expenses could be further increased if we encounter delays in the opening of any of our new branches. Finally, we have no assurance our new branches will be successful even after they have been established. Our recent results may not be indicative of our future results We may not be able to sustain our historical rate of growth or may not even be able to grow our business at all. In addition, our recent growth may distort some of our historical financial ratios and statistics. Various factors, such as economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations and competition, may also impede or prohibit our ability to expand our market presence. If we experience a significant decrease in our historical rate of growth, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected due to a high percentage of our operating costs being fixed expenses. Our continued pace of growth may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We anticipate our capital resources as a result of the recent sale of the Series A preferred stock to the Treasury will satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We may at some point, however, need to raise additional capital to support our continued growth. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital if needed on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. Changes in interest rates may negatively affect our earnings and the value of our assets. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earnings assets, such as loans and investment securities, and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, competition and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest our Banks receive on loans and investment securities and the amount of interest they pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) the Banks’ ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, including the available for sale securities portfolio, and (iii) the average duration of our interest-earning assets. This also includes the risk that interest-earning assets may be more responsive to changes in interest rates than interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa (repricing risk), the risk that the individual interest rates or rates indices underlying various interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities may not change in the same degree over a given time period (basis risk), and the risk of changing interest rate relationships across the spectrum of interest-earning asset and interest-bearing liability maturities (yield curve risk), including a prolonged flat or inverted yield curve environment. Any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents Competition from financial institutions and other financial service providers may adversely affect our profitability The banking business is highly competitive and we experience competition in each of our markets from many other financial institutions. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds, and other mutual funds, as well as other super-regional, national and international financial institutions that operate offices in our primary market areas and elsewhere. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, we have to attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Many of our competitors are well-established, larger financial institutions. While we believe we can and do successfully compete with these other financial institutions in our primary markets, we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size, lack of geographic diversification and inability to spread our marketing costs across a broader market. Although we compete by concentrating our marketing efforts in our primary markets with local advertisements, personal contacts, and greater flexibility and responsiveness in working with local customers, we can give no assurance this strategy will be successful. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies. Our compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. We are also subject to capitalization guidelines established by our regulators, which require us to maintain adequate capital to support our growth. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. We are dependent upon the services of our management team Our future success and profitability is substantially dependent upon the management and banking abilities of our senior executives. We believe that our future results will also depend in part upon our attracting and retaining highly skilled and qualified management and sales and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in retaining such personnel. We also cannot guarantee that members of our executive management team will remain with us. Changes in key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our profitability could be adversely affected if we are unable to promptly deploy the capital raised in our recent offering We may not be able to immediately deploy all of the capital raised in the recent sale of the Series A preferred stock to the Treasury. Investing the offering proceeds in securities until we are able to deploy the proceeds will provide lower margins than we generally earn on loans, potentially adversely affecting shareholder returns, including earnings per share, return on assets and return on equity. 17 Table of Contents The trading volume in our common stock has been low and the sale of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could depress the price of our common stock Our common stock is thinly traded. The average daily trading volume of our shares on The Nasdaq National Market during 2008 was approximately 14,000 shares. Thinly traded stock can be more volatile than stock trading in an active public market. We cannot predict the extent to which an active public market for our common stock will develop or be sustained after this offering. In recent years, the stock market has experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and market prices for the stock of many companies have experienced wide price fluctuations that have not necessarily been related to their operating performance. Therefore, our shareholders may not be able to sell their shares at the volumes, prices, or times that they desire. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of our common stock in the market, or availability of shares of our common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market price of our common stock. We therefore can give no assurance sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the market, or the potential for large amounts of sales in the market, would not cause the price of our common stock to decline or impair our ability to raise capital through sales of our common stock. Our ability to pay dividends is limited and we may be unable to pay future dividends Our ability to pay dividends is limited by regulatory restrictions and the need to maintain sufficient consolidated capital. The ability of our four bank subsidiaries to pay dividends to us is limited by their obligations to maintain sufficient capital and by other general restrictions on their dividends that are applicable to national banks and state banks that are regulated by the FDIC. If we do not satisfy these regulatory requirements, we will be unable to pay dividends on our common stock. Our preferred shares impact net income available to our common shareholders and our earnings per share As long as there are Series A preferred shares outstanding, no dividends may be paid on our common stock unless all dividends on the preferred shares have been paid in full. The dividends declared on our Series A preferred shares will reduce the net income available to common shareholders and our earnings per common share. Additionally, warrants to purchase our common stock issued to the Treasury, in conjunction with the Series A preferred shares may be dilutive to our earnings per share. The Series A preferred shares will also receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of our business. Holders of our junior subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of our common stockholders We have supported our continued growth through the issuance of trust preferred securities from a special purpose trust and accompanying junior subordinated debentures. At December 31, 2008, we had outstanding trust preferred securities and accompanying junior subordinated debentures totaling $12.5 million. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities of this special purpose trust are conditionally guaranteed by us. Further, the accompanying junior subordinated debentures we issued to the special purpose trust are senior to our shares of common stock. As a result, we must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures before any dividends can be paid on our common stock and, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the junior subordinated debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made on our common stock. We have the right to defer distributions on our junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid on our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 18 Table of Contents 