ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks described below are not the only risks we face. If any of the events described in the following risk factors actually occurs, or if additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, materialize, then our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment in our shares. The risks discussed below include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Risks Related to Our Company We may be required to raise additional capital, but that capital may not be available when it is needed, or it may only be available on unfavorable terms. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. The proceeds of our 2010 rights offering returned our Bank capital levels to published “Well-Capitalized” levels, including exceeding the 10.0% risk-based capital level. We are, however, subject to a Consent Order that requires higher capital levels, including a 10.0% leverage ratio. Our Bank leverage ratio as of December 31, 2010, was 8.85%. We may need to raise additional capital to maintain or improve our capital position or to comply with regulatory requirements and support our operations. In addition, future losses could reduce our capital levels. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we may not be able to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our financial condition and our ability to support our operations could be materially impaired. We could be required to take other actions to improve capital ratios including reducing asset levels or shifting asset types to assets with lower risk-weightings, which could reduce our ability to generate revenues and adversely affect our financial condition. We are subject to formal regulatory agreements with the FDIC, DCBS and Federal Reserve. In light of the current challenging operating environment, along with our elevated level of non-performing assets, delinquencies and adversely classified assets, we are subject to increased regulatory scrutiny, including a Consent Order with the FDIC and DCBS dated effective April 6, 2010, and a Written Agreement with the Federal Reserve and DCBS dated effective June 4, 2010. The Consent Order requires us to take steps to strengthen the Bank and to refrain from undertaking certain activities. We have limitations on our lending activities and on the rates paid by the Bank to attract retail deposits in its local markets. We are required to reduce our levels of non-performing assets within specified time frames, which could result in less than ideal pricing on the sale of assets. We are restricted from paying dividends from the Bank to the Holding Company during the life of the Consent Order, which restricts our ability to issue preferred stock dividends and make junior subordinated debenture interest payments. The added costs of compliance with additional regulatory requirements could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and earnings. Our ability to grow is constrained by the Consent Order and Written Agreement and we will be unable to expand our operations until we achieve material compliance with the regulatory agreements. The requirements and restrictions of the Consent Order and the Written Agreement are judicially enforceable and the failure of the Company or the Bank to comply with such requirements and restrictions may subject the Company and the Bank to additional regulatory restrictions including: the imposition of civil monetary penalties; the issuance of directives to increase capital or enter into a strategic transaction, whether by merger or otherwise, with a third party; the appointment of a conservator or receiver for the Bank; the liquidation or other closure of the Bank and inability of the Company to continue as a going concern; the termination of insurance of deposits; the issuance of removal and prohibition orders against institution-affiliated parties; and the enforcement of such actions through injunctions or restraining orders. Generally, these enforcement actions will be lifted only after subsequent examinations substantiate complete correction of the underlying issues. 19 Table of Contents The negative impact of the current economic recession has been particularly acute in our primary market areas of southern and central Oregon and in northern California. Our operations are geographically concentrated in southern and central Oregon and northern California and our business is sensitive to regional business conditions. Substantially all of our loans are to businesses and individuals in our primary market areas. Our customers are directly and indirectly dependent upon the economies of these areas and upon the timber and tourism industries, which are significant employers and revenue sources in our markets – economic factors that affect these industries will have a disproportionately negative impact on our region and our customers. All geographic regions in which we operate have seen precipitous declines in property values. The State of Oregon suffers from one of the nation’s highest unemployment rates and major employers have implemented substantial layoffs or scaled back growth plans. The State of California continues to face significant fiscal challenges, the long-term effects of which cannot be predicted. A further deterioration in the economic and business conditions or a prolonged delay in economic recovery in our primary market areas could result in the following consequences that could materially and adversely affect our business: increased loan delinquencies; increased problem assets and foreclosures; reduced demand for our products and services; reduction in cash balances of consumers and businesses resulting in declines in deposits; reduced property values that diminish the value of assets and collateral associated with our loans; and a decrease in capital resulting from charge-offs and losses. We have continuing losses and continuing volatility in our results of operations. We reported a net loss applicable to shareholders of $7.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. Losses resulted primarily from the high level of nonperforming assets and the related reduction in interest income and increased provision for loan losses. We can provide no assurance that we will not have continuing losses in our operations. We are required to reduce levels of nonperforming assets under our Consent Order. We are required to improve our financial condition by reducing nonperforming assets. We may seek to sell assets, but market conditions for the sale of assets may not be favorable and we may not be able to lower nonperforming asset levels sufficiently to meet the requirements of the Consent Order or to maintain existing capital levels. If other banks are also required to improve capital levels and choose to sell assets, or if the FDIC sells assets in its position as receiver for a failed bank in our market area, asset pricing could be unfavorable. The sale of nonperforming assets could reduce capital levels and delay compliance with the Consent Order. We have high levels of nonperforming assets which negatively affect our results of operations. Our nonperforming assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. Until economic and market conditions improve, we expect to continue to incur additional losses relating to nonperforming loans. We do not record interest income on non-accrual loans, thereby adversely affecting our income, and increasing loan administration costs. When we receive collateral through foreclosures and similar proceedings, we are required to mark the related loan to the then fair market value of the collateral, which may result in a loss. An increase in the level of nonperforming assets also increases our risk profile and may impact the capital levels our regulators believe are appropriate in light of such risks. Decreases in the value of problem assets, the underlying collateral, or in the borrowers’ performance or financial condition, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the resolution of nonperforming assets requires significant commitments of time from management and staff, which can be detrimental to performance of their other responsibilities. We could experience further increases in nonperforming loans in the future. 20 Table of Contents The Consent Order limits the types of funding sources on which we may rely and may have a negative impact on our liquidity. We cannot accept, renew or roll over any brokered deposits, and are required to submit a plan that eliminates our reliance on brokered deposits. In addition, certain interest-rate limits apply to our brokered and solicited deposits. The reduction in the level of brokered deposits, even according to their regular maturity dates, may have a negative impact on our liquidity. Our financial flexibility could be severely constrained if we are unable to obtain brokered deposits or renew wholesale funding or if adequate financing is not available in the future at acceptable rates of interest. We may not have sufficient liquidity to continue to fund new loan originations, and we may need to liquidate loans or other assets unexpectedly in order to repay obligations as they mature. Furthermore, we are now required to provide a higher level of collateral for any funds that we borrow from the Federal Reserve, and we may be required to provide additional collateral to our other funding sources as well. Any additional collateral requirements or limitations on our ability to access additional funding sources are expected to have a negative impact on our liquidity. We are subject to restrictions on our ability to declare or pay dividends on and repurchase shares of our common stock. Our ability to pay dividends, and the Bank’s ability to pay dividends to us, is limited by regulatory restrictions and the need to maintain sufficient capital. In the second quarter of 2009, we suspended payment of dividends on our common stock in order to conserve capital. We are subject to formal regulatory restrictions that will continue to prohibit us from declaring or paying any dividend without prior approval of banking regulators. Although we can seek to obtain waiver of such prohibition, we would not expect to be granted such waiver or to be released from this obligation until our financial performance improves significantly. Therefore, we may not be able to resume payments of dividends in the future. Under the terms of our agreements with the U.S. Treasury in connection with the sale of our Series B Preferred Stock, we are unable to declare dividend payments on common, junior preferred or pari passu preferred shares if we are in arrears on the dividends on the Series B Preferred Stock. We suspended further dividend payments on the Series B Preferred Stock in the fourth quarter of 2009 in order to conserve capital. If dividends on the Series B Preferred Stock are not paid in full for six dividend periods, whether or not consecutive, the holders of the Series B Preferred Stock will have the right to elect two directors. Such right to elect directors will end when full dividends have been paid for four consecutive dividend periods. We also announced that we would defer, as permitted under the terms of indentures, interest payments on junior subordinated debentures issued in connection with trust preferred securities. We are permitted to defer such interest payments for up to 20 consecutive quarters, but during a deferral period we are prohibited from making dividend payments on our capital stock. Further, if we become current on our Series B Preferred Stock dividends and junior subordinated debenture payments, we cannot increase dividends on our common stock above $0.57 per share per quarter without the U.S. Treasury’s approval or redemption or transfer of the Series B Preferred Stock. We are subject to executive compensation restrictions because of our participation in the U.S. Treasury’s TARP Capital Purchase Program. We are subject to TARP rules and standards governing executive compensation, which generally apply to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and the three next most highly compensated senior executive officers and, with amendments to the rules in 2009, apply to a number of other employees. The standards include (i) a requirement to recover any bonus payment to senior executive officers or certain other employees if payment was based on materially inaccurate financial statements or performance metric criteria; (ii) a prohibition on making any golden parachute payments to senior executive officers and certain other employees; (iii) a prohibition on paying or accruing any bonus payment to certain employees, with narrow 21 Table of Contents exceptions for grants of long-term restricted stock; (iv) a prohibition on maintaining any plan for senior executive officers that encourages such officers to take unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten the Company’s value; (v) a prohibition on maintaining any employee compensation plan that encourages the manipulation of reported earnings to enhance the compensation of any employee; and (vi) a prohibition on providing tax gross-ups to senior executive officers and certain other employees. These restrictions and standards could limit our ability to recruit and retain executives. Our business is heavily regulated and the creation of additional regulations may negatively affect our operations. We are subject to government regulation that could limit or restrict our activities, which in turn could adversely impact our operations. The financial services industry is regulated extensively. Federal and state regulations are designed primarily to protect the deposit insurance funds and consumers, and not to benefit shareholders. These regulations can sometimes impose significant limitations on our operations as well as result in higher operating costs. In addition, these regulations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. Significant new regulation or changes in existing regulations or repeal of existing laws may affect our results materially. Further, federal monetary policy, particularly as implemented through the Federal Reserve System, significantly affects credit conditions and interest rates that impact the Company. We could experience credit losses if new federal or state legislation, or regulatory changes, are implemented to protect customers by reducing the amount that the Bank’s borrowers are otherwise contractually required to pay under existing loan contracts or by limiting the Bank’s ability to foreclose on property or other collateral or makes foreclosure less economically feasible. Our earnings depend to a large extent upon the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, and our inability to manage credit risk would negatively affect our business. We will suffer losses if a significant number of our borrowers, guarantors and related parties fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. We have adopted underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and a credit policy, including the establishment and review of the allowance for loan losses that our management believes are appropriate to minimize this risk by assessing the likelihood of non-performance, tracking loan performance and diversifying our credit portfolio. These policies and procedures, however, involve subjective judgments and may not prevent unexpected losses that could materially affect our results of operations. Moreover, bank regulators frequently monitor loan loss allowances. If regulators were to determine that the allowance was inadequate, they may require us to increase the allowance, which also would adversely impact our financial condition. Approximately 78% of our gross loan portfolio is secured by real estate, the majority of which is commercial real estate and continued market deterioration could lead to losses. Declining real estate values have caused increasing levels of charge-offs and provisions for loan losses. Continued declines in real estate market values may precipitate increased charge-offs and a further increase in the allowance for loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in interest rates could adversely impact our net interest margin, net interest income and net income. Our earnings depend upon the spread between the interest rate we receive on loans and securities and the interest rates we pay on deposits and borrowings. We are impacted by changing interest rates. Changes in interest rates affect the demand for new loans, the credit profile of existing loans, the rates received on loans and securities and rates paid on deposits and borrowings. The relationship between the rates received on loans and securities and the rates paid on deposits and borrowings is known as interest rate spread. Given our current 22 Table of Contents volume and mix of interest-bearing liabilities and interest-earning assets, our interest rate spread could be expected to increase during times of rising interest rates and, conversely, to decline during times of falling interest rates. Exposure to interest rate risk is managed by adjusting the re-pricing frequency of PremierWest Bank’s rate-sensitive assets and rate-sensitive liabilities over any given period. Significant fluctuations in interest rates may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Market conditions or regulatory constraints could restrict our access to funds necessary to meet liquidity demands. Liquidity measures the ability to meet loan demand and deposit withdrawals and to pay liabilities as they come due. A sharp reduction in deposits or rapid increase in loans outstanding could force us to borrow heavily in the wholesale deposit market, purchase federal funds from correspondent banks, borrow at the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle or Federal Reserve discount window, raise deposit interest rates or reduce lending activity. Wholesale deposits, federal funds and sources for borrowings may not be available to us due to future regulatory constraints, market conditions or unfavorable terms. We rely on the Federal Home loan Bank (“FHLB”) of Seattle as a source of liquidity. The Company has the ability to borrow from FHLB of Seattle to provide a source of wholesale funding for immediate liquidity and borrowing needs. Changes or disruptions to the FHLB of Seattle or the FHLB system in general, may materially impair the Company’s ability to meet its growth plans or to meet short and long term liquidity demands. The Federal Housing Finance Agency reaffirmed FHLB of Seattle’s “undercapitalized” classification at December 31, 2010. The FHLB of Seattle cannot pay a dividend on their common stock and it cannot repurchase or redeem common stock. While the FHLB of Seattle has announced it does not anticipate that additional capital is immediately necessary, and believes that its capital level is adequate to support realized losses in the future, the FHLB of Seattle could require its members, including the Company, to contribute additional capital in order to return the FHLB of Seattle to compliance with capital guidelines. The financial services industry is highly competitive. Competition may adversely affect our performance. The financial services industry is highly competitive due to changes in regulation that permit more non-bank companies to offer financial services, technological advances that expand the ability of our competitors to reach our customers and offer products through the internet, and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial services providers including due to bank failures. Credit unions, as a result of exemptions from federal corporate income tax and regulatory requirements facing banks that reduce operating costs, are able to offer certain products to our current and targeted customers at more competitive rates. We face competition both in attracting deposits and in originating loans and providing transactional services. Our ability to pay dividends, repurchase shares or repay indebtedness depends primarily upon the results of operations of PremierWest Bank. We are a separate, distinct legal entity from the Bank and receive substantially all of our revenue from dividends from the Bank. Our inability to receive dividends from the Bank adversely affects our financial condition. The Bank’s ability to pay dividends is primarily dependent on net interest income, which is the income that remains after deducting from total income generated by earning assets the expense attributable to the acquisition of the funds required to support earnings assets, the general level of interest rates, the dynamics of changes in interest rates and the levels of nonperforming loans. Various statutory and regulatory provisions restrict the amount of dividends the Bank can pay to us without regulatory approval and the Bank is currently restricted from paying dividends without prior regulatory approval until its condition improves. In addition the Bank may not pay cash dividends if that payment could reduce the amount of its capital below that necessary to meet the “adequately capitalized” level in accordance with 23 Table of Contents regulatory capital requirements. It is also possible that, depending on the financial condition of the Bank and other factors, regulatory authorities could assert that payment of dividends or other payments by the Bank, including payments to the Company, is an unsafe and unsound practice. Under Oregon law, the amount of a dividend from the Bank may not be greater than net unreserved retained earnings, after first deducting to the extent not already charged against earnings or reflected in a reserve, all bad debts, which are debts on which interest is unpaid and past due at least six months unless the debt is fully secured and in the process of collection; all other assets charged-off as required by the DCBS or state or federal examiner; and all accrued expenses, interest and taxes. Compliance with the recently enacted financial reform legislation may increase our costs of operations and adversely impact our earnings. Dodd-Frank will change the current bank regulatory structure and affect the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. Dodd-Frank requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting and implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of Dodd-Frank may not be known for many months or years. Significant changes will include: • The establishment of the Financial Stability Oversight Counsel, which will be responsible for identifying and monitoring systemic risks posed by financial firms, activities, and practices. The establishment of a Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, within the Federal Reserve, to serve as a dedicated consumer-protection regulatory body with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks with more than $10 billion in assets. Banks with $10 billion or less in assets will continue to be examined for compliance with the consumer laws by their primary bank regulators. • Amendments to the Truth in Lending Act aimed at improving consumer protections with respect to mortgage originations, including originator compensation, minimum repayment standards, and prepayment considerations. • Elimination of federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest bearing checking accounts. Depending on competitive responses, this significant change to existing law could have an adverse impact on the Company’s interest expense. • Broadened base for Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance assessments. Assessments will now be based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution. • Federal Reserve determination of reasonable debit card fees. • Permanent increase to the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per depositor, retroactive to January 1, 2009, and non-interest bearing transaction accounts have unlimited deposit insurance through December 31, 2013. • Requirement of publicly traded companies to provide stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called “golden parachute” payments, and by authorizing the Securities and Exchange Commission to promulgate rules that would allow stockholders to nominate their own candidates using a company’s proxy materials. The legislation also directs the Federal Reserve Board to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives, regardless of whether the company is publicly traded or not. Many provisions in the Dodd-Frank Reform Act are aimed at financial institutions that are significantly larger than the Company or the Bank. Nonetheless, there are provisions that apply to us and we must begin to comply 24 Table of Contents with immediately. In addition, federal agencies will promulgate rules and regulations to implement and enforce provisions in the Dodd-Frank Reform Act. We will have to apply resources to ensure that we are in compliance with all applicable provisions, which may adversely impact our earnings. The precise nature, extent and timing of many of these reforms and the impact on us is still uncertain. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected our industry. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past three years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities. These write-downs have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial services industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: • We face increased regulation of our industry, as a result of Dodd-Frank, EESA and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”). Compliance will increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. • Government stimulus packages and other responses to the financial crises may not stabilize the economy or financial system. • Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite our customers become less predictive of future behaviors. • The process we use to estimate losses inherent in its credit exposure requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic predictions might impair the ability of the Bank’s borrowers to repay their loans. These may no longer be capable of accurate estimation which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process. • We will be required to pay significantly higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation premiums because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. • There may be continued downward pressure on our stock price due to such conditions. • Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions and government sponsored entities. • We may face new competitive forces due to intensified consolidation of the financial services industry. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital, on our business, our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on technology to deliver products and services and interact with our customers. We face operational risks as we depend on internal and outsourced technology to support all aspects of our business operations. Interruption or failure of these systems creates a risk of loss of customer confidence if 25 Table of Contents technology fails to work as expected and risk of regulatory scrutiny if security breaches occur. Risk management programs are expensive to maintain and will not protect the company from all risks associated with maintaining the security of customer information, proprietary data, external and internal intrusions, disaster recovery and failures in the controls used by vendors. Changes in accounting standards may impact how we report our financial condition and results of operations. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) changes the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. The value of securities in our investment securities portfolio may be negatively affected by disruptions in securities markets. Market conditions may negatively affect the value of securities. There can be no assurance that the declines in market value associated with these disruptions will not result in other-than-temporary impairments of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges that could have a material adverse effect on our net income and capital levels. Our deposit insurance premium could be substantially higher in the future. The FDIC insures deposits at the Bank and other financial institutions. The FDIC charges insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund at a certain level. Current economic conditions have caused bank failures and expectations for additional bank failures, in which case the FDIC, through the Deposit Insurance Fund, ensures payments of customer deposits at failed banks up to insured limits. In addition, deposit insurance limits on customer deposit accounts have generally increased to $250,000 from $100,000. These developments will cause the premiums assessed by the FDIC to increase and may materially increase our noninterest expense. An increase in the risk category of the Bank will also cause our premiums to increase. Whether through adjustments to base deposit insurance assessment rates, significant special assessments or emergency assessments under the TLGP, increased deposit insurance premiums could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. If we fail to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or to remedy any future material weaknesses in our internal controls that we may identify, such failure could result in material misstatements in our financial statements, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. Any failure to remediate any material weakness that we may identify or to implement new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure also could adversely affect the results of the periodic management evaluations and, in the case of a failure to remediate any material weaknesses that we may identify, would adversely affect the annual auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting that we are required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our capital stock. 26 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 