Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, you should consider the following risk factors before investing in our securities. We do not have a history of profitable operations and our cash resources are limited. 11 Table of Contents Our year ended October 31, 2003 was the first and only full year we were profitable in our operating history. Our profitability for the year ended October 31, 2003 resulted primarily from our SCOsource business. For the years ended October 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, we incurred net losses of $8,687,000 $6,826,000 and $16,598,000, respectively. As of October 31, 2008, our accumulated deficit was $267,053,000. If our revenue from the sale of our UNIX products and services continues to decline, or if we continue to devote significant cash resources to the SCO Litigation, we will need to further reduce operating expenses to generate positive cash flows. During October 2006 and January 2008, we implemented a reduction in force and decreased our ongoing operating expenses in an effort to decrease our total costs. We may not be able to further reduce operating expenses without damaging our ability to support our existing UNIX business. Additionally, we may not be able to achieve profitability through additional cost-cutting actions. As of October 31, 2008, we had a total of $1,237,000 in cash and cash equivalents and an additional $1,534,000 is to be used to pursue the SCO Litigation and to cover any amounts required to be put into constructive trust under the Novell judgment. Since October 31, 2004, we have spent a total of $13,447,000 for expert, consulting and other costs and fees as agreed to in the Engagement Agreement with our legal counsel in the SCO Litigation. Our limited cash resources may not be sufficient to fund continuing losses from operations and the expenses of the SCO Litigation. A long period of operating under Chapter 11 may harm our business. A long period of operating under Chapter 11 could adversely affect our business and operations. So long as the Chapter 11 cases continue, our senior management will be required to spend a significant amount of time and effort dealing with the bankruptcy reorganization instead of focusing exclusively on business operations. A prolonged period of operating under Chapter 11 may also make it more difficult to attract and retain management and other key personnel necessary to the success and growth of our business. In addition, the longer the Chapter 11 cases continue, the more likely it is that our customers and suppliers will lose confidence in our ability to successfully reorganize our businesses and seek to establish alternative commercial relationships. Furthermore, so long as the Chapter 11 cases continue, we will be required to incur substantial costs for professional fees and other expenses associated with the administration of the cases. A prolonged continuation of the Chapter 11 cases may also require us to seek financing. If we require financing during the Chapter 11 cases and we are unable to obtain the financing on favorable terms or at all, our chances of successfully reorganizing our businesses may be seriously jeopardized. We may not be able to obtain confirmation of our Chapter 11 plan; we may not be able to emerge from bankruptcy and our assets may be liquidated. To successfully emerge from Chapter 11 as a viable entity, one must meet certain statutory requirements with respect to adequacy of disclosure with respect to the Chapter 11 plan of reorganization (the “Plan”), solicit and obtain the requisite acceptances of the Plan, and fulfill other statutory conditions for confirmation. We may not receive the requisite acceptances to confirm the Plan. Even if the requisite acceptances of the Plan are received, the Bankruptcy Court may not confirm the Plan. On February 29, 2008, we filed a Plan and a Disclosure Statement with the United States Bankruptcy Court. A hearing for approval of the Disclosure Statement was scheduled before the Bankruptcy Court on April 2, 2008. The April 2, 2008 hearing proceeded as a status conference regarding our progress towards a new Memorandum of Understanding (“MOU”) with Stephen Norris Capital Partners, LLC. Therefore, we indicated that we were not presently seeking approval of the adequacy of the Disclosure Statement, which would need to be amended to reflect the changes to the MOU. On May 12, 2008, we filed a motion seeking an extension of our exclusive period to submit and solicit acceptance to an amended or new plan of reorganization. At the hearing to consider that motion on June 17, 2008, the Bankruptcy Court granted the motion. The Debtors filed another motion for an extension of our exclusive periods to submit and solicit acceptances of a plan of reorganization to a date 45 12 Table of Contents and 105 days, respectively, following the entry of a final judgment in the Novell Litigation. The hearing on that motion was held on September 16, 2008. The Bankruptcy Court granted the motion for an extension of our exclusive period to submit a plan of reorganization to December 31, 2008 and 60 days thereafter for the solicitation of acceptances of that plan. On January 8, 2009, we filed our Amended Reorganization Plan and Disclosure Statement. Under the proposed Plan, we intend to hold an open auction to sell certain assets including our mobility business assets and our OpenServer operating system assets and business. Through this sale, we hope to obtain enough consideration to pay our creditors and continue operations as set forth in the Plan. In the event that the asset sale does not generate enough cash to meet the aforementioned objectives, we will scale back our operations and costs, and initiate other strategies to implement the plan of reorganization. In the event that certain SCO assets are not sold, we will continue to sell and support our UNIX and mobility business and will also focus on the following key provisions: (a) an enhanced pricing and discount strategy, (b) an updated “True-up” licensing program with current customers, (c) reducing overall operating costs (d) delivering SCO UNIX Virtual product lines for VMware and Hyper-V to allow SCO legacy applications to run on modern hardware; and (e) shipping FCmobilelife and FCtasks for the iPhone with a new pricing structure. If our Plan is not confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court, it is unclear whether we would be able to reorganize our businesses and what, if anything, holders of claims against us would ultimately receive with respect to their claims. If an alternative reorganization could not be agreed upon, it is possible that our bankruptcy case could be converted to a liquidation under Chapter 7 and we would have to liquidate our assets, in which case it is likely that holders of claims would receive substantially less favorable treatment than they would receive if we were to emerge as a viable, reorganized entity and stockholders would likely receive nothing from the liquidation. A plan of reorganization may result in holders of our common stock receiving no distribution on account of their interests and cancellation of their common stock. Under the priority scheme established by the Bankruptcy Code, unless creditors agree otherwise, post-petition liabilities and prepetition liabilities must be satisfied in full before stockholders are entitled to receive any distribution or retain any property under a plan of reorganization. The ultimate recovery to creditors and/or stockholders, if any, will not be determined until confirmation of a plan or plans of reorganization. No assurance can be given as to what values, if any, will be ascribed in the Chapter 11 cases to each of these constituencies or what types or amounts of distributions, if any, they would receive. No assurance can be provided regarding the date any plan or plans of reorganization will be proposed, confirmed or consummated or regarding when any distributions could be made to parties in interest. A plan of reorganization could result in holders of our common stock receiving no distribution on account of their interests and cancellation of their existing stock. If certain requirements of the Bankruptcy Code are met, a plan of reorganization can be confirmed notwithstanding its rejection by the class comprising the interests of our equity security holders. Therefore, an investment in our common stock is highly speculative. Operating under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. Under the Bankruptcy Code, all debtors must obtain Bankruptcy Court approval to, among other things: • sell assets outside the ordinary course of business; • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and • obtain financing secured by the Company’s assets. In addition, if a trustee is appointed to operate the Debtors in Chapter 11 (or the case is converted to a case under Chapter 7), the trustee would assume control of our assets, including the SCO Litigation. We suffered a significant setback in our lawsuit with Novell that has significantly limited our claims and raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern and we may not prevail in our lawsuits with IBM, Novell and others. 13 Table of Contents On August 10, 2007, the Court ruled in favor of Novell on several of the summary judgment motions that were pending. The effect of these rulings was to significantly reduce or to eliminate certain of our claims in both the Novell and IBM cases, and possibly others. The Court ruled that Novell was the owner of the UNIX and UnixWare copyrights that existed at the time of the APA and that Novell retained broad rights to waive our contract claims against IBM. The Court ruled that we own the copyrights to post-APA UnixWare derivatives and that we have certain other ownership rights in the UNIX technology. We were directed to accept Novell’s waiver of its UNIX contract claims against IBM. In addition, the Court determined that certain SCOsource licensing agreements that we executed in fiscal year 2003 and thereafter included older SVRx licenses and that we were possibly required to remit some portion of the proceeds to Novell. Over our objection, a bench trial was set to begin on September 17, 2007, and the federal judge was to determine what portion, if any, of the proceeds of the SCOsource agreements were attributable to such SVRx licenses and should be remitted to Novell, as well as whether we had authority to enter into such SVRx licenses. The potential payment to Novell for those SVRx licenses ranged from a de minimis amount to in excess of $30,000,000, the latter amount being the amount claimed by Novell, plus interest. The trial of these issues, however, was automatically stayed as a result of our filing a voluntary petition for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code on September 14, 2007. On October 4, 2007, Novell filed a Motion for Relief from Automatic Stay. On November 27, 2007, the Bankruptcy Court modified the automatic stay to permit Novell to pursue the trial scheduled in the Court in Utah on the allocation of proceeds from the SCOsource agreements and the question of SCO’s alleged lack of authority to enter into them, but the Bankruptcy Court retained jurisdiction to determine whether to impose a constructive trust on any amounts found to be payable to Novell. From April 29 through May 2, 2008, the Court held a bench trial on Novell’s monetary claim for certain portions of fees we received from the SCOsource agreements and whether we had the authority to enter into those agreements. Prior to the commencement of the trial, Novell conceded that it would not be making a claim to a portion of the fees paid to us by Microsoft in 2003 and Novell, therefore, reduced the principal amount of its claim to $19,979,561. The Court also heard oral argument on the motions filed by us and Novell. After the trial and arguments the Court took all matters under advisement and stated that it would attempt to issue a ruling without undue delay. On July 16, 2008, the Court entered its Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Order, ruling that (1) the SCOsource agreements with Linux end-users were not SVRx licenses and therefore Novell was not entitled to revenue from those agreements and that we had the authority to enter into such agreements; (2) the 2003 SCOsource agreement with Microsoft contained an SVRx license that was incidental to the UnixWare license in the agreement, and therefore we were authorized to enter into the license and Novell was not entitled to revenue from the agreement; and (3) the 2003 SCOsource agreement with Sun was an unauthorized amendment of a prior UNIX buy out agreement, and Novell was entitled to $2,547,817 of the revenue from the Sun agreement as attributable to that amendment. The Court directed Novell to file a brief identifying the amount of prejudgment interest it sought based on this award. On August 29, 2008, Novell filed an Unopposed Submission Regarding Prejudgment Interest, informing the Court that the parties had agreed that Novell was entitled to $918,122 in prejudgment interest through that date, plus $489 per day until the entry of final judgment, based on the Court’s $2,547,817 award. In its ruling of July 16, 2008, the Court also directed Novell to file a proposed Final Judgment consistent with the Court’s trial and summary judgment orders. In its proposed submission to the Court in compliance with this order, Novell took the position that final judgment could not be entered because our claims were stayed pending arbitration and the imposition of a constructive trust remained an open question in the Bankruptcy Court. Subsequently, in order to expedite the entry of final judgment, we sought to resolve these issues with Novell and agreed to an extension of Novell’s deadline for filing its submission. Based on our tracing of Sun’s payments under the 2003 SCOsource agreement, Novell agreed that only $625,487 of SCO’s current assets were traceable as trust funds. We also proposed dismissing our stayed claims with prejudice on the basis of the Court’s ruling that Novell owns the pre-APA UNIX copyrights in the Court’s summary judgment order of August 10, 2007. On August 29, 2008, in its Submission Regarding the Entry of Final Judgment, Novell informed the Court of the parties’ agreement as to the trust amount, but Novell stood by its position that final judgment could not be entered in light of the stayed claims. On September 15, 2008, we filed papers arguing for the entry of final judgment. 14 Table of Contents On November 20, 2008, after further negotiations between the parties, the Court entered a Final Judgment, incorporating the material rulings from the August 10, 2007 and July 16, 2008 rulings as explained above. On November 25, 2008, we filed a notice of appeal of that Final Judgment. The appeal before the United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit will proceed over the next several months with briefing and then argument before the Court. On January 23, 2009, we filed an unopposed motion for an expedited appeal. A decision on the appeal could be forthcoming in approximately the next ten to fourteen months, unless we are successful in our motion that the Court handle the appeal on an expedited basis. We believe that we have a strong basis for the appeal but we cannot predict or guarantee success on appeal; on average success on an appeal such as this is less than fifty percent. As a result of this Final Judgment against us, as of October 31, 2008,we have accrued $3,518,000 for this contingent liability and related interest. However, we continue to contest this liability. We believe that this judgment is in error, and that we have strong grounds to have the adverse rulings embodied in the Final Judgment overturned upon appeal. However, in the event that our assets are further depleted or frozen, we may not be in a financial position to appeal those rulings. Our management and board of directors determined that filing for relief under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code on September 14, 2007 was appropriate and necessary. As a result of both the Court’s August 10, 2007 order and our entry into Chapter 11, among other factors, there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern including continuing the SCO Litigation or appealing the adverse ruling of August 10, 2007 and the July 16, 2008 order. The lawsuits with IBM and Novell will continue to be costly. In the event that we are not successful with the IBM or Novell motions, or the continuing litigation requires more cash than expected, our business and operations would be materially harmed. We must continue to pay for expert, consulting and other expenses through the conclusion of our litigation with IBM and Novell. As we continue with discovery and other trial preparations, we may be required to place additional amounts into the escrow account, which could further reduce our liquidity position. Our claims relating to our UNIX intellectual property may subject us to additional legal proceedings. In August 2003, Red Hat brought a lawsuit against us asserting that the Linux operating system does not infringe our UNIX intellectual property rights and seeking a declaratory judgment for non-infringement of copyrights and non-misappropriation of trade secrets. In addition, Red Hat claims that we have engaged in false advertising in violation of the Lanham Act, deceptive trade practices, unfair competition, tortious interference with prospective business opportunities, and trade libel and disparagement. This case is currently stayed pending the resolution of our suit against IBM and because of the bankruptcy cases. If Red Hat is successful in its claim against us, our business and results of operations could be materially harmed. Our Engagement Agreement with the Law Firms representing us in the SCO Litigation requires us to pay for expert, consulting and other costs, which could harm our liquidity position. On October 31, 2004, we entered into an engagement agreement (the “Engagement Agreement”) with Boies, Schiller & Flexner LLP, Kevin McBride and Berger Singerman P.A. (the “Law Firms”). This Engagement Agreement superseded and replaced the original engagement agreement that was entered into in February 2003. The Engagement Agreement governs the relationship between the Law Firms and us in connection with the Law Firms’ representation of us in the SCO Litigation. Berger Singerman P.A. was a member of this group of Law Firms. With our consent, the engagement of this firm was mutually terminated. The last payment received by Berger Singerman P.A. with regard to that representation was on November 24, 2004. We must pay one or more contingency fees upon any amount that we or our stockholders may receive as a result of a settlement, judgment or a sale of the company. The contingency fee amounts payable to the Law Firms will be, subject to certain credits and adjustments, as follows: 15 Table of Contents • 33 percent of any aggregate recovery amounts received up to $350,000,000; • plus 25 percent of any aggregate recovery amounts above $350,000,000 but less than or equal to $700,000,000; • plus 20 percent of any aggregate recovery amounts in excess of $700,000,000. The Engagement Agreement specifically provides that, except for the compensation obligations specifically described above, we will not be obligated to pay any legal fees, whether hourly, contingent or otherwise, to the Law Firms, or any other law firms that may be engaged by the Law Firms, in connection with our SCO Litigation through the end of the current litigation between us and IBM, including any appeals. On June 5, 2006, we entered into an amendment to the Engagement Agreement and agreed with the Law Firms to deposit an additional $5,000,000 into the escrow account to cover additional expert, consulting and other expenses. During October 2006, we deposited an additional $5,000,000 into the escrow account. In the event that we exhaust these funds, we must continue to pay for expert, consulting and other expenses through the conclusion of our litigation with IBM. As we continue with discovery and other trial preparations, we may be required to place additional amounts into the escrow account, which could further reduce our liquidity position. As of October 31, 2008, we had a total of $1,237,000 in cash and cash equivalents and an additional $1,554,000 of restricted cash to be used to pursue the SCO Litigation and to cover any amounts required to be put into constructive trust under the Novell judgment. Since October 31, 2004, we have spent a total of $13,447,000 for expert, consulting and other costs and fees as agreed to in the Engagement Agreement with the Law Firms in the SCO Litigation. In light of the Chapter 11 filings, these arrangements are subject to Bankruptcy Court approval. Developments in the SCO Litigation and fluctuations in our operating results or the failure of our operating results to meet the expectations of public market analysts and investors may negatively impact our stock price and our ability to continue in business. Developments in the SCO Litigation and fluctuations in our operating results or our failure to meet the expectations of analysts or investors, even in the short-term, could cause our stock price to decline significantly. Because of the potential for fluctuations in our expenses related to the SCO Litigation in any particular period, you should not rely on comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of future performance. Factors that may affect our results include: • our ability to operate effectively under Chapter 11 protection and changes in business attitudes toward UNIX as a viable operating system compared to other competing operating systems, especially Linux, as well as the possibility that the automatic stay triggered by our Chapter 11 filing will be lifted or modified, or our reorganization plan will not be confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court; • the outcome of pending litigation with Novell and pending motions for summary judgment in our lawsuit with IBM, adverse rulings relating to IBM’s counterclaims, and results of, developments in, or costs of the SCO Litigation as well as adverse publicity regarding our business and the SCO Litigation; • changes in general economic conditions, such as recessions, that could affect capital expenditures in the software industry; • the interest level of resellers in recommending our UNIX business solutions to end users and the introduction, development, timing, competitive pricing and market acceptance of our products and services and those of our competitors; • the contingency and other costs we may pay to the Law Firms representing us in our efforts to establish and defend our intellectual property rights; 16 Table of Contents • changes in attitudes of customers and partners due to the decline in our UNIX business and our position against the inclusion of our UNIX code and derivative works in Linux; and • the activities of short sellers. We also experience fluctuations in operating results in interim periods in Europe and the Asia Pacific region due to seasonal slowdowns and economic conditions in these areas. Seasonal slowdowns in these regions typically occur during the summer months. As a result of the factors listed above and elsewhere, it is possible that our results of operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors in any particular period. This could cause our stock price to decline. If revenue falls below our expectations, and we are unable to quickly reduce our spending in response, our operating results will be lower than expected. Our stock price may fall in response to these events. For a further description of recent developments in our litigation with Novell, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Recent Developments, Novell, Inc. Ruling”. For a further description of the risks we face as a result of filing for Chapter 11, see A long period of operating under Chapter 11 may harm our business, We may not be able to obtain confirmation of our Chapter 11 plan, A plan of reorganization may result in holders of our common stock receiving no distribution on account of their interests and cancellation of their common stock, and Operating under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. If we are unable to retain key personnel in an intensely competitive environment, our operations could be adversely affected. We need to retain our key management, technical and support personnel. Competition for qualified professionals in the software industry is intense, and departures of existing personnel could be disruptive to our business and might result in the departure of other employees. During January 2008, we were required to reduce our operating expenses and eliminated certain positions within our worldwide workforce in an effort to reduce operating costs. The loss or departure of any officers or key employees could harm our ability to implement our business plan and could adversely affect our operations. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued service and coordination of our management team, particularly Darl C. McBride, our Chief Executive Officer, and Ryan E. Tibbitts, our General Counsel. For a discussion of the risks we face in attracting and retaining employees due to our Chapter 11 filing, see “A long period of operating under Chapter 11 may harm our business.” We operate in a highly competitive market and face significant competition from a variety of current and potential sources; many of our current and potential competitors have greater financial and technical resources than we do; thus, we may fail to compete effectively. In the operating system market, our competitors include IBM, Red Hat, Novell, Sun, Microsoft, and other UNIX and Linux distributors. These and other competitors are aggressively pursuing the current UNIX operating system market. Many of these competitors have access to substantially greater resources than we do. The major competitive alternative to our UNIX products is Linux. The expansion of our competitors’ offerings may restrict the overall market available for our UNIX products, including some markets where we have been successful in the past. Our future success may depend in part on our ability to continue to meet the increasing needs of our customers by supporting existing and emerging technologies. If we do not have the resources to enhance our products to meet these evolving needs, we may not remain competitive and be able to sustain our business. Additionally, because technological advancement in the UNIX operating system market and alternative operating system markets is progressing at an advanced pace, we will have to develop and introduce enhancements to our existing products and any new products on a timely basis to keep pace with these developments, evolving industry standards, changing customer requirements and keeping current on certifications. Our failure to meet any of these and other competitive pressures may render our existing products and services obsolete, which would have an adverse impact on our revenue and operations. 17 Table of Contents The success of our UNIX business will depend on the level of commitment and certification we receive from industry partners and developers. In recent years, we have seen hardware and software vendors as well as software developers turn their certification and application development efforts toward Linux and elect not to continue to support or certify to our UNIX operating system products. If this trend continues, our competitive position will be adversely impacted and our future revenue from our UNIX business will decline. The decline in our UNIX business may be accelerated if industry partners withdraw their support from us for any reason, including our SCO Litigation. If the market for UNIX continues to contract, our business will be harmed. Our revenue from the sale of UNIX products has declined over the last several years. This decrease in revenue has been attributable primarily to increased competition from other operating systems, particularly Linux, and from the negative publicity we have received from the SCO Litigation. Our sales of UNIX products and services are primarily to existing customers. If the demand for UNIX products continues to decline, and we are unable to develop UNIX products and services that successfully address a market demand, our UNIX revenue will continue to decline, industry participants may not certify to our operating system and products, we may not be able to attract new customers or retain existing customers and our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. Additionally, with the recent adverse summary judgment rulings in our lawsuit with Novell and our entry into Chapter 11, customers may likely determine to no longer buy our products and services. Because of the long adoption cycle for operating system purchases and the long sales cycle of our operating system products, we may not be able to reverse these revenue declines quickly. We may lose the support of industry partners leading to an accelerated decline in our UNIX products and services revenue. The decline in our UNIX business, the recent rulings in our lawsuit with Novell and our filing for protection under Chapter 11 may cause industry partners, developers, customers and hardware and software vendors to choose not to support or certify to our UNIX operating system products. This would lead to an increased decline in our UNIX products and services revenue and would adversely impact our results of operations and liquidity. We rely on our indirect sales channel for distribution of our products, and any disruption of our channel at any level could adversely affect the sales of our products. We have a two-tiered distribution channel. The relationships we have developed with resellers allow us to offer our products and services to a much larger customer base than we would otherwise be able to reach through our own direct sales and marketing efforts. Some solution providers also purchase solutions through our resellers, and we anticipate they will continue to do so. Because we usually sell indirectly through resellers, we cannot control the relationships through which resellers, solution providers or equipment integrators purchase our products. In turn, we do not control the presentation of our products to end users. Therefore, our sales could be affected by disruptions in the relationships between us and our resellers, between our resellers and solution providers, or between solution providers and end users. Also, resellers and solution providers may choose not to emphasize our products to their customers. Any of these occurrences could diminish the effectiveness of our distribution channel and lead to decreased sales. Our foreign-based operations and sales are subject to the imposition of governmental controls and taxes and fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could hurt our results. We have employees or contractors in certain locations in Europe, the Middle East, Latin America, and Asia. These foreign operations are subject to certain inherent risks, including: • potential loss of developed technology through piracy, misappropriation, or more lenient laws regarding intellectual property protection; • imposition of governmental controls, including trade restrictions and other tax requirements; 18 Table of Contents • fluctuations in currency exchange rates and economic instability; • longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries; and • seasonal reductions in business activity. In addition, certain of our operating expenses are denominated in local currencies, creating risk of foreign currency translation losses that could reduce our financial results and cash flows. When we generate profits in foreign countries, our effective income tax rate is increased. During the three months ended April 30, 2004, our India office was assessed withholding taxes by the Government of India Income Tax Department. The Tax Department assessed a 15% withholding tax on certain revenue transactions in India that the Tax Department deemed royalty revenue under the Income Tax Act. We have filed an appeal with the Tax Department and believe that revenue from our packaged software does not qualify for royalty treatment and therefore would not be subject to withholding tax. However, we may be unsuccessful in our appeal against the Tax Department and be obligated to pay the assessed taxable amounts. Because of our international operations, we may be subject to additional withholding or other taxes from other international jurisdictions. We have lost our listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market as a result of our bankruptcy filing and the loss of our listing has made our stock significantly less liquid and has significantly reduced its value. As a result of our having filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, Nasdaq used its authority under Marketplace Rules 4300, 4450(f) and IM-4300 to de-list our securities from The Nasdaq Capital Market. Upon delisting from the Nasdaq Capital Market, our stock is traded on the Pink Sheets. In order to trade on the Pink Sheets, there must be market makers for our stock. Without a number of market makers in our stock, our stock would be less liquid than it would otherwise be, and the value of our stock could decrease. In addition, compliance with the rules and regulations of the Exchange Act relating to “penny stock” may make it more difficult for holders of our common stock to resell their shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them. Our stock price is volatile. The trading price for our common stock has been volatile during the last several years and our share price has changed dramatically over short periods. We believe that changes in our stock price are affected by the factors mentioned above as well as from changing public perceptions concerning the strength of the SCO Litigation, developments in our Bankruptcy proceedings and other factors beyond our control. Public perception can change quickly and without any change or development in our underlying business or litigation position. An investment in our stock is subject to such volatility and, consequently, is subject to significant risk. There are risks associated with the potential exercise of our outstanding options. As of December 31, 2008, we have issued outstanding options to purchase up to approximately 5,188,000 shares of common stock with an average exercise price of $2.82 per share. The existence of such rights to acquire common stock at fixed prices may prove a hindrance to our efforts to raise future equity and debt funding, and the exercise of such rights will dilute the percentage ownership interest of our stockholders and may dilute the value of their ownership. The possible future sale of shares issuable on the exercise of outstanding options could adversely affect the prevailing market price for our common stock. Further, the holders of the outstanding stock options may exercise them at a time when we would otherwise be able to obtain additional equity capital on terms more favorable to us. Our stock price could decline further because of the activities of short sellers. Our stock has attracted significant interest from short sellers. The activities of short sellers could further reduce the price of our stock or inhibit increases in our stock price. 19 Table of Contents The right of our board of directors to authorize additional shares of preferred stock could adversely impact the rights of holders of our common stock. Our Board of Directors currently has the right, with respect to the 5,000,000 shares of our preferred stock, to authorize the issuance of one or more additional series of our preferred stock with such voting, dividend and other rights as our directors determine. The Board of Directors can designate new series of preferred stock without the approval of the holders of our common stock. The rights of holders of our common stock may be adversely affected by the rights of any holders of additional shares of preferred stock that may be issued in the future, including without limitation, further dilution of the equity ownership percentage of our holders of common stock and their voting power if we issue preferred stock with voting rights. Additionally, the issuance of preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. Our stockholder rights plan could make it more difficult for a hostile bid for our company or a change of control transaction to succeed at current market prices for our stock. We have adopted a stockholder rights plan. The power given to the Board of Directors by the stockholder rights plan may make it more difficult for a change of control of our Company to occur or for our Company to be acquired if the acquisition is opposed by our Board of Directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 