ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We do not believe there have been any material changes in our risk factors since the filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006. However, we may update our risk factors in our SEC filings from time to time for clarification purposes or to include additional information, at management's discretion, even when there have been no material changes. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS WE HAVE A NARROW PRODUCT RANGE AND OUR PRODUCTS MAY BECOME OBSOLETE, OR TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES MAY REDUCE OR LIMIT INCREASES IN CMP CONSUMPTION Our business is substantially dependent on a single class of products, CMP slurries, which historically has accounted for almost all of our revenue. We are also developing our business in CMP pads. Our business would suffer if these products became obsolete or if consumption of these products decreased. Our success depends on our ability to keep pace with technological changes and advances in the semiconductor industry and to adapt, improve and customize our products for advanced IC applications in response to evolving customer needs and industry trends. Since its inception, the semiconductor industry has experienced rapid technological changes and advances in the design, manufacture, performance and application of IC devices, and our customers continually pursue lower cost of ownership of materials consumed in their manufacturing processes, including CMP slurries and pads. We expect these technological changes and advances, and this drive toward lower costs, to continue in the future. Potential technology developments in the semiconductor industry, as well as our customers’ efforts to reduce consumption of CMP slurries and pads, could render our products less important to the IC device manufacturing process. A SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF OUR BUSINESS COMES FROM A LIMITED NUMBER OF LARGE CUSTOMERS AND OUR REVENUE AND PROFITS COULD DECREASE SIGNIFICANTLY IF WE LOST ONE OR MORE OF THESE CUSTOMERS Our customer base is concentrated among a limited number of large customers. One or more of these principal customers could stop buying CMP slurries from us or could substantially reduce the quantity of CMP slurries they purchase from us. Our principal customers also hold considerable purchasing power, which can impact the pricing and terms of sale of our products. Any deferral or significant reduction in CMP slurries sold to these principal customers, or a significant number of smaller customers, could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In fiscal 2007, our five largest customers accounted for approximately 43% of our revenue, with TSMC accounting for approximately 17% of our revenue. In fiscal 2006, our five largest customers accounted for approximately 44% of our revenue; Marketech, a distributor, was our largest customer at that time. Effective April 2006, with our transition to direct sales in Taiwan, we began selling directly to TSMC and other customers in Taiwan rather than through Marketech. Due to the timing of this transition, TSMC accounted for approximately 10% of our revenue for the full fiscal year 2006. 12 Table of Contents OUR BUSINESS COULD BE SERIOUSLY HARMED IF OUR EXISTING OR FUTURE COMPETITORS DEVELOP SUPERIOR SLURRY PRODUCTS, OFFER BETTER PRICING TERMS OR SERVICE, OR OBTAIN CERTAIN INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS Competition from current CMP slurry manufacturers or new entrants to the CMP slurry market could seriously harm our business and results of operations. Competition from other existing providers of CMP slurries could continue to increase, and opportunities exist for other companies with sufficient financial or technological resources to emerge as potential competitors by developing their own CMP slurry products. Increased competition has and may continue to impact the prices we are able to charge for our slurry products as well as our overall business. In addition, our competitors could have or obtain intellectual property rights which could restrict our ability to market our existing products and/or to innovate and develop new products. ANY PROBLEM OR DISRUPTION IN OUR SUPPLY CHAIN, INCLUDING SUPPLY OF OUR MOST IMPORTANT RAW MATERIALS, OR IN OUR ABILITY TO MANUFACTURE AND DELIVER OUR PRODUCTS TO OUR CUSTOMERS, COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS We depend on our supply chain to enable us to meet the demands of our customers. Our supply chain includes the raw materials we use to manufacture our products, our production operations, and the means by which we deliver our products to our customers. Our business could be adversely affected by any problem or interruption in our supply of the key raw materials we use in our CMP slurries, including fumed metal oxides such as fumed alumina and fumed silica, or any problem or interruption that may occur during production or delivery of our products, such as weather-related problems or natural disasters. For example, Cabot Corporation continues to be our primary supplier of particular amounts and types of fumed alumina and fumed silica. We believe it would be difficult to promptly secure alternative sources of key raw materials, including fumed metal oxides, in the event one of our suppliers becomes unable to supply us with sufficient quantities of raw materials that meet the quality and technical specifications required by our customers. In addition, contractual amendments to the existing agreements with, or non-performance by, our suppliers could adversely affect us. Also, if we change the supplier or type of key raw materials we use to make our CMP slurries, or are required to purchase them from a different manufacturer or manufacturing facility or otherwise modify our products, in certain circumstances our customers might have to requalify our CMP slurries for their manufacturing processes and products. The requalification process could take a significant amount of time and expense to complete and could motivate our customers to consider purchasing products from our competitors, possibly interrupting or reducing our sales of CMP slurries to these customers. WE ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR FOREIGN OPERATIONS We currently have operations and a large customer base outside of the United States. Approximately 79%, 79% and 78% of our revenue was generated by sales to customers outside of the United States for fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We encounter risks in doing business in certain foreign countries, including, but not limited to, adverse changes in economic and political conditions, fluctuation in exchange rates, compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, as well as difficulty in enforcing business and customer contracts and agreements, including protection of intellectual property rights. BECAUSE WE HAVE LIMITED EXPERIENCE IN BUSINESS AREAS OUTSIDE OF CMP SLURRIES, EXPANSION OF OUR BUSINESS INTO NEW PRODUCTS AND APPLICATIONS MAY NOT BE SUCCESSFUL An element of our strategy has been to leverage our current customer relationships and technological expertise to expand our CMP business from CMP slurries into other areas, such as CMP polishing pads. Additionally, pursuant to our engineered surface finishes business, we are actively pursuing a variety of surface modification applications, such as high precision optics. Expanding our business into new product areas could involve technologies, production processes and business models in which we have limited experience, and we may not be able to develop and produce products or provide services that satisfy customers’ needs or we may be unable to keep pace with technological or other developments. Also, our competitors may have or obtain intellectual property rights which could restrict our ability to market our existing products and/or to innovate and develop new products. 13 Table of Contents BECAUSE WE RELY HEAVILY ON OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY, OUR FAILURE TO ADEQUATELY OBTAIN OR PROTECT IT COULD SERIOUSLY HARM OUR BUSINESS Protection of intellectual property is particularly important in our industry because we develop complex technical formulas for CMP products that are proprietary in nature and differentiate our products from those of our competitors. Our intellectual property is important to our success and ability to compete. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as employee and third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. Due to our international operations, we pursue protection in different jurisdictions, which may require varying degrees of protection, and we cannot provide assurance that we can obtain adequate protection in each such jurisdiction. Our failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason, including through the patent prosecution process or in the event of litigation related to such intellectual property, such as the current litigation between us and DA Nano described above in Item 1 under the heading “Intellectual Property”, could seriously harm our business. In addition, the costs of obtaining or protecting our intellectual property could negatively affect our operating results. WE MAY PURSUE ACQUISITIONS OF, INVESTMENTS IN, AND STRATEGIC ALLIANCES WITH OTHER ENTITIES, WHICH COULD DISRUPT OUR OPERATIONS AND HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS IF THEY ARE UNSUCCESSFUL We expect to continue to make investments in companies, either through acquisitions, investments or alliances, in order to supplement our internal growth and development efforts. Acquisitions and investments involve numerous risks, including the following: difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, products and personnel of acquired companies; diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business; potential difficulties in entering markets in which we have limited or no direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions; potential difficulties in operating new businesses with different business models; potential difficulties with regulatory or contract compliance in areas in which we have limited experience; initial dependence on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply partners; insufficient revenues to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions; potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies; or inability to effectively cooperate and collaborate with our alliance partners. Further, we may never realize the perceived or anticipated benefits of a business combination or investments in other entities. Acquisitions by us could have negative effects on our results of operations, in areas such as contingent liabilities, gross profit margins, amortization charges related to intangible assets and other effects of accounting for the purchases of other business entities. Investments and acquisitions of technology and development stage companies are inherently risky because these businesses may never develop, and we may incur losses related to these investments. In addition, we may be required to write down the carrying value of these investments to reflect other than temporary declines in their value, which could harm our business and results of operations. DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS AND OUR BUSINESS MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY WORLDWIDE ECONOMIC AND INDUSTRY CONDITIONS Our business is affected by economic and industry conditions and our revenue is dependent on semiconductor demand. Semiconductor demand, in turn, is impacted by semiconductor industry cycles, and these cycles can dramatically affect our business. During the first half of fiscal 2007, for example, the apparent softening of demand for our products due to excess inventory of semiconductor devices caused our CMP slurry revenue to decrease during the inventory correction. Some additional factors that affect demand for our products include customers’ production of logic versus memory devices, their transition from 200 mm to 300 mm wafers, customers’ specific integration schemes, share gains and losses and pricing changes by us and our competitors. 14 Table of Contents OUR INABILITY TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN KEY PERSONNEL COULD CAUSE OUR BUSINESS TO SUFFER If we fail to attract and retain the necessary managerial, technical and customer support personnel, our business and our ability to maintain existing and obtain new customers, develop new products and provide acceptable levels of customer service could suffer. Competition for qualified personnel, particularly those with significant experience in the semiconductor industry, is intense. The loss of services of key employees could harm our business and results of operations. RISKS RELATING TO THE MARKET FOR OUR COMMON STOCK THE MARKET PRICE MAY FLUCTUATE SIGNIFICANTLY AND RAPIDLY The market price of our common stock has fluctuated and could continue to fluctuate significantly as a result of factors such as: economic and stock market conditions generally and specifically as they may impact participants in the semiconductor and related industries; changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts who follow our stock; earnings and other announcements by, and changes in market evaluations of, us or participants in the semiconductor and related industries; changes in business or regulatory conditions affecting us or participants in the semiconductor and related industries; announcements or implementation by us, our competitors, or our customers of technological innovations, new products or different business strategies; and trading volume of our common stock. ANTI-TAKEOVER PROVISIONS UNDER OUR CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION AND BYLAWS AND OUR RIGHTS PLAN MAY DISCOURAGE THIRD PARTIES FROM MAKING AN UNSOLICITED BID FOR OUR COMPANY Our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, our rights plan and various provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may make it more difficult to effect a change in control of our Company. For example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to issue up to 20 million shares of blank check preferred stock and to attach special rights and preferences to this preferred stock, which may make it more difficult or expensive for another person or entity to acquire control of us without the consent of our Board of Directors. Also our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides for the division of our Board of Directors into three classes as nearly equal in size as possible with staggered three-year terms. We have adopted change in control arrangements covering our executive officers and other key employees. These arrangements provide for a cash severance payment, continued medical benefits and other ancillary payments and benefits upon termination of service of a covered employee’s employment following a change in control, which may make it more expensive to acquire our Company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 15 Table of Contents ITEM 