Item 1A. Risk Factors.The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may adversely impact our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.Risks Related to Our StrategyWe may not be able to execute our strategy to be an IT services company for small and medium-sized businesses with IT and network security needs, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.Our strategy for growth is for EarthLink to serve as an IT services company for small and medium-sized businesses with IT and network security needs. We believe IT services is an emerging market with significant opportunity for growth. We are investing capital to extend our core fiber IP network, expand our IT services footprint with additional data centers and launch a next generation cloud hosting platform. We are also investing in the personnel to support this strategy. We are focused on growing our IT services revenues through new and existing channels, leveraging distribution channels, increasing brand awareness and positioning our business to take advantage of important trends in these markets. At the same time we are accelerating investments in IT services, we are decreasing investments in legacy products, which makes us more reliant on the IT services market.There can be no assurance that our strategy will be successful. The market for IT services is relatively new and continues to evolve. While we believe our expertise, investments in infrastructure and breadth of services provides us with a strong foundation to compete, if we do not have sufficient customer demand to support our new services, our financial results may be harmed. Our success depends on the timing and market acceptance of our new products and services, our ability to market our services in a cost-effective manner to new customers, our ability to differentiate our services from those of our competitors, our ability to maintain and expand our sales to existing customers, our ability to strengthen awareness of our brand, our ability to develop an effective sales model for this strategy, our ability to provide quality implementation and customer support for these products and the reliability and quality of our services. To date the sales cycle for these services has been slower than our traditional communications products. If the market for these services fails to grow or continues to grow more slowly than we currently anticipate, or if our services fail to achieve widespread customer acceptance, our business would suffer. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.We may not be able to grow revenues from our evolving Business Services product portfolio to offset declining revenues from our legacy Business Services products and from our Consumer Services segment, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.Revenues from our legacy products and services have been declining and we expect these revenues to continue to decline. Specifically, our legacy Business Services revenues, including traditional voice, lower-end broadband and web hosting, have been declining due to economic, competitive, technological and regulatory developments. Additionally, our consumer access subscriber base and revenues have been declining and are expected to continue to decline due to the continued maturation of the market for Internet access and competitive pressures in the industry. We believe our growth products are IT services, MPLS and hosted voice, and we are focused on growing revenues by selling these services to new and existing customers. However, we may not be successful in our efforts to increase revenues generated from our growth products to offset the revenue declines in our legacy products. If we are unable to successfully implement our strategy to counteract these declining revenues or if revenue growth takes longer than expected, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.We may not be able to develop the optimal sales model necessary to implement our business strategy.Our ability to execute our growth strategy depends largely on our ability to develop the optimal sales model appropriate for our changing product portfolio, including our ability to identify the appropriate geographic markets to develop, to employ key sales and technical personnel and to engage productive indirect channel partners to execute that model. The shift in our strategic product portfolio requires continued change and improvements in marketing, sales and operational practices. To be successful, we must define the optimal sales model for getting our products to market. In addition, our ability to achieve growth in revenue will depend, in large part, on our success in effectively retaining and attracting skilled sales and support personnel. Finally, as we increase sales efforts through indirect channel partners, we are more reliant on third parties and have less control over the sales process for our products and services. If we are not successful in developing the optimal sales model or hiring, training, retaining and motivating employees, or if our current or future employees perform poorly, growth in the sales of our services and products may not materialize and our business will suffer. 15Table of ContentsWe may be unsuccessful integrating acquisitions into our business, which could result in operating difficulties, losses and other adverse consequences.We have completed two major acquisitions and several smaller acquisitions since December 2010, including our acquisitions of ITC^DeltaCom, One Communications and STS Telecom. Our management has been and continues to be involved in integrating these acquisitions into our business. Our ability to achieve the benefits of acquisitions depends in part on the successful integration and leveraging of technology, operations, sales and marketing channels and personnel. Integration and other risks associated with acquisitions can be more pronounced for larger and more complicated transactions or if multiple transactions are integrated simultaneously. The challenges and risks involved in the integration of our acquired businesses, as well as any future businesses that we may acquire, include: •diversion of management's attention and resources that would otherwise be available for the current operation of our business; •failure to fully achieve expected synergies and costs savings; •higher integration costs than anticipated; •the impact on employee morale and the retention of employees, many of whom may have specialized knowledge about the business; •lost revenues or opportunities as a result of our current or potential customers or strategic partners deciding to delay or forego business;•difficulties combining product offerings and entering into new markets in which we are not experienced; •difficulties integrating the sales organizations of acquired companies;•the integration of departments, operating support systems, such as provisioning and billing systems, and technologies, such as network equipment; •the need to implement and maintain uniform controls, procedures and policies throughout all of our acquired companies or the need to remediate significant control deficiencies that may exist at acquired companies; and•potential unknown liabilities.We are currently integrating our operating support system and certain billing systems. This is a complicated undertaking requiring significant resources and expertise and support from third-party vendors. There are numerous critical deliverables to enable a successful launch, including: completion of systems development and testing, training for employees and careful process documentation. We believe the current operating support systems and processes are impacting sales productivity and effectiveness due to the significant degree of manual processing for quoting, sales order creation and service delivery processes which is more time consuming and prone to error than automated processing. We may not realize anticipated synergies, cost savings, growth opportunities and operational efficiencies from our acquisitions, or the anticipated benefits may take longer or present greater costs to realize than expected. In addition, the failure to integrate our operating support and billing systems successfully or delay of integration could adversely affect our ability to implement our business plans. The occurrence or continuation of any of these risks could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. If we are unable to adapt to changes in technology and customer demands, we may not remain competitive, and our revenues and operating results could suffer.We operate in an industry characterized by changing technology, changes in customer needs and frequent new service and product introductions. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to use leading technologies effectively, to continue to develop our technical expertise, to enhance our existing services and to develop new services that meet changing customer needs on a timely and cost-effective basis. We may not be able to adapt quickly enough to changing technology, customer requirements and industry standards. If the technology choices we make prove to be incorrect, ineffective or unacceptably costly, we may not be able to compete effectively. In addition, new technologies may be protected by patents or other intellectual property laws, and, therefore, may be available only to our competitors. 16Table of ContentsOur failure to achieve operating efficiencies will adversely affect our results of operations. We have an operating framework that includes a disciplined focus on operational efficiency. The success of our operating efficiency and cost reduction initiatives is necessary to align costs with trends in revenues for our non-strategic products. If we do not recognize the anticipated benefits of our cost reduction opportunities in a timely manner, our results of operations and cash flows will decline. Additionally, we are incurring increased costs related to our Business Services growth strategy, such as our recent investments in our network and data centers and increased sales and marketing. If the increased costs required to support our revenue growth turn out to be greater than anticipated, or our resulting revenues lower than expected, we may be unable to improve our results of operations and/or cash flows. As a result of our continuing review of our business, we may have to undertake further restructuring plans that would require additional charges, including incurring facility exit and restructuring charges. In January 2013, we restructured our sales organization in order to better meet the needs of the IT services market, which resulted in a reduction in our sales workforce and some office closings. We decided to exit telecom systems sales early in 2013 to enable focus on our hosted VoIP platform for new voice customers, which also resulted in a small number of position eliminations. We will continue to evaluate our business, which may result in restructuring activities or changes in estimates to amounts previously recorded. We may choose to divest certain business operations based on our management's assessment of their strategic value to our business, consolidate or close certain facilities or outsource certain functions. Decisions to eliminate or limit certain business operations in the future could involve the expenditure of capital, consumption of management resources, realization of losses, transition and wind-up expenses, further reduction in workforce, impairment of the value of purchased assets, facility consolidation and the elimination of revenues along with associated costs, any of which could cause our operating results to decline and may fail to yield the expected benefits. Engaging in further restructuring activities could result in additional charges and costs, including facility exit and restructuring costs, and could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Unfavorable general economic conditions could harm our business.Unfavorable general economic conditions, including recession and disruptions to the credit and financial markets, could negatively affect our business. These conditions could adversely affect the affordability of, and customer demand for, some of our products and services and could cause customers to delay or forego purchases of our products and services, especially our IT services. Many of our existing and target customers are small and medium-sized businesses. We believe these businesses are more likely to be affected by economic downturns than larger, more established businesses. Unfavorable general economic conditions could cause business customers to reduce technology spending, which could negatively impact sales of our growth services. In addition, our business customers may not be able to obtain adequate access to credit, which could affect their ability to make timely payments to us. One or more of these circumstances could cause our revenues to decline, churn to increase, allowance for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable to increase or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Unfavorable general economic conditions could also negatively impact third-party vendors we rely on for services and network equipment integral to our business. If these vendors encounter financial difficulties, their ability to supply services and network equipment to us may be curtailed. If such vendors were to fail, we may not be able to replace them without disruption to, or deterioration of, our service and we may incur higher costs associated with new vendors. If we were required to purchase another manufacturer's equipment, we could incur significant initial costs to integrate the equipment into our network and to train personnel to use the new equipment. Any interruption in the services provided by our third-party vendors could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.We may be unable to successfully identify, manage and assimilate future acquisitions, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We expect to continue to evaluate and consider potential strategic transactions in order to grow our business. At any given time, we may be engaged in discussions or negotiations with respect to one or more of such transactions that may be material to our financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that any such discussions or negotiations will result in the consummation of any transaction, or that we will identify appropriate transactions on terms acceptable to us. Future acquisitions may result in significant costs and expenses and charges to earnings, including those related to severance, employee benefit costs, retention costs for executive officers and key employees, asset impairment charges, integration costs, charges from the elimination of duplicative facilities and contracts, unexpected liabilities, legal, accounting and financial advisory fees. Adverse capital markets conditions could also negatively impact our ability to make acquisitions. Additionally, future acquisitions may result in the dilutive issuances of equity securities, use of our cash resources, incurrence of debt or contingent liabilities, amortization 17Table of Contentsexpense related to acquired definite-lived intangible assets or the potential impairment of amounts capitalized as intangible assets, including goodwill. Any of these items could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.We also may experience risks relating to the challenges and costs of closing a transaction and the risk that an announced transaction may not close. Completion of certain acquisition transactions are conditioned upon, among other things, the receipt of government approvals, including from the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) and certain state public utility commissions. Failure to complete a pending transaction would prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits. We would also remain liable for significant transaction costs, including legal and accounting fees, whether or not the transaction is completed. We may also face increased market risks due to delays in completing transactions due to the need to receive these approvals. In addition, the market price of our common stock may reflect a market assumption as to whether the transaction will occur. Consequently, the completion of, or a failure to complete, a transaction could result in a significant change in the market price of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business Services SegmentWe face significant competition in the communications and IT services industry that could reduce our profitability.The communications industry is highly competitive, and we expect this competition to intensify. These markets are rapidly changing due to industry consolidation, an evolving regulatory environment and the emergence of new technologies. We compete directly or indirectly with incumbent local exchange carriers (“ILECs”), such as AT&T, CenturyLink, Inc. and Verizon Communications Inc.; competitive telecommunications companies (“CLECs”), such as Level 3 Communications Inc., MegaPath, Inc., Windstream Corporation and XO Communications; interexchange carriers, such as Sprint Nextel Corporation; wireless and satellite service providers; cable service providers, such as Charter Communications, Inc., Comcast Corporation, Cox Communications, Inc. and Time Warner Cable; and stand-alone VoIP providers. We experience significant pricing and product competition from AT&T and other incumbents that are the dominant providers of telecommunications services in our markets. We have reduced, and may be required to further reduce, some or all of the prices we charge for our retail local, long distance and data services.The IT services industry is also highly competitive. These markets are highly fragmented and evolving. Competitors range in size from small, local independent firms to very large telecommunications companies, hardware manufacturers and system integrators. We compete directly or indirectly with telecommunications companies such as AT&T, CenturyLink, Level 3 and Verizon; system integrators such as Accenture, CSC, Hewlett-Packard and IBM; managed hosting and cloud providers such as Amazon Web Services, Equinix, Inc., Internap Network Services Corporation, Rackspace Hosting, Inc. and Web.com Group, Inc.; and managed security companies such as Perimeter eSecurity and Dell Secure Works. We believe the primary competitive factors in the communications and IT services industries include price, availability, reliability of service, network security, variety of service offerings, quality of service and reputation of the service provider. While we believe our business services compete favorably based on some of these factors, we are at a competitive disadvantage with respect to certain of our competitors. Many of our current and potential competitors have greater market presence, engineering, technical and marketing capabilities and financial, personnel and other resources substantially greater than ours; own larger and more diverse networks; are subject to less regulation; or have substantially stronger brand names. In addition, industry consolidation has resulted in larger competitors that have greater economies of scale. Consequently, these competitors may be better equipped to charge lower prices for their products and services, to provide more attractive offerings, to develop and expand their communications and network infrastructures more quickly, to adapt more swiftly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, to increase prices that we pay for wholesale inputs to our services and to devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products and services. Competition could adversely impact us in several ways, including: (i) the loss of customers and resulting revenue; (ii) the possibility of customers reducing their usage of our services or shifting to less profitable services; (iii) reduced traffic on our networks; (iv) the need to expend substantial time or money on new capital improvement projects; and (v) the need to lower prices or increase marketing expenses to remain competitive.18Table of ContentsDecisions by legislative or regulatory authorities, including the Federal Communications Commission relieving incumbent carriers of certain regulatory requirements, and possible further deregulation in the future, may restrict our ability to provide services and may increase the costs we incur to provide these services. We rely in significant part on purchasing wholesale services, including special access services, and leasing network facilities from AT&T, CenturyLink, Verizon and other incumbent carriers. Over the past several years, the FCC has reduced or eliminated a number of regulations governing the incumbent carriers' offerings, which has had the impact of reducing these carriers' competition-related obligations. These FCC actions include removal of local switching and other network elements from the list of elements that the incumbent carriers must provide on an unbundled basis at TELRIC cost-based rates, as well as the grant of broad pricing flexibility to incumbents for their special access services in many areas. If the FCC continues to reduce or eliminate regulations governing incumbent carriers, and if the incumbent carriers do not continue to permit us to purchase these services from them under commercial arrangements at reasonable rates, our business could be adversely affected and our cost of providing local service could increase. This can have a significant adverse impact on our operating results and cash flows. The incumbent carriers regularly attempt to further reduce their competition-related obligations to non-incumbent carriers like us. Most recently, in November 2012 AT&T filed a petition with the FCC requesting that the FCC open a proceeding “to facilitate… the transition” from technology platforms such as copper loops to IP-based platforms, which proceeding could have the effect of further reducing the local competition-related obligations of the incumbent carriers. In addition, the FCC has established a task force to coordinate its efforts on IP interconnection. Likewise, certain states have taken steps to address IP interconnection. If the FCC, Congress, state legislatures or state regulatory agencies were to adopt measures further reducing the local competition-related obligations of the incumbents or allowing those carriers to increase further the rates we must pay, we could experience additional increases in operating costs that would negatively affect our operating results and cash flows. In addition, the FCC currently is considering whether and how to reform its special access rules. We rely to a considerable extent on interstate special access services purchased from the incumbent carriers in order to connect to our customers. If the FCC adopts rules that do not protect our ability to purchase these services at reasonable prices on non-discriminatory terms as compared to our competitors, our business could be adversely affected.If we are unable to interconnect with AT&T, Verizon and other incumbent carriers on acceptable terms, our ability to offer competitively priced local telephone services will be adversely affected. To provide local telephone services, we must interconnect with and resell the services of the incumbent carriers to supplement our own network facilities, pursuant to interconnection agreements between us and the incumbent carriers. We operate under interconnection agreements with AT&T, CenturyLink, Fairpoint Communications, Frontier Communications, Verizon and Windstream. An interconnection agreement typically has a term of three years, although the parties may mutually agree to extend or amend such agreements. Federal law requires these carriers to negotiate the terms of interconnection agreements with us in good faith, but if such negotiations are unsuccessful, we may be forced into an expensive arbitration proceeding before state PUCs, with an uncertain outcome. If we are not able to renegotiate or enter into interconnection agreements on acceptable terms, or if we are subject to unfavorable arbitration decisions, our cost of doing business could increase and our ability to compete could be impeded. Moreover, our interconnection agreements and traffic exchange agreements with companies other than ILECs (such as wireless and VoIP providers and other competitive carriers) are not subject to the statutory arbitration mechanism, making it potentially more difficult to reach any agreement on terms that we view as acceptable. If we are unable to enter into or maintain favorable interconnection agreements in our markets, our ability to provide local services on a competitive and profitable basis may be adversely affected. Any successful effort by the incumbent carriers to deny or substantially limit our access to their network elements or wholesale services (in commercial agreements or by regulatory petition or otherwise) also would harm our ability to provide local telephone services. For example, Verizon's recent efforts to accelerate replacement of copper with fiber in certain parts of New York and New Jersey affected by Hurricane Sandy could result in increased costs to provide services in these areas or in other areas where the ILECs may seek to replace coper with fiber.19Table of ContentsOur operating performance will suffer if we are not offered competitive rates for the access services we need to provide our long distance services. We depend on other communications companies to originate and terminate a significant portion of the long distance traffic initiated by our customers. The FCC regulates the access rates charged by local carriers to interexchange carriers for the origination and termination of long distance traffic. These access rates make up a significant portion of the cost of providing long distance service. In late 2011, the FCC adopted policy changes that over time are reducing carriers' access rates. These rules significantly alter the manner in which all carriers, including carriers that use different service platforms such as wireless and VoIP, are compensated for the origination and termination of telecommunications traffic. These rules have generally reduced the rates that we pay for our access services. Our operating performance will suffer if we are not offered these access services at rates that are substantially equivalent to the costs of, and rates charged to, our competitors and that permit profitable pricing of our long distance services. We may experience reductions in switched access and reciprocal compensation revenue. We may experience declines in revenues for switched access and reciprocal compensation as a result of lower volume of traditional long distance voice minutes and FCC and state regulations compelling a reduction of switched access and reciprocal compensation rates. In late 2011, the FCC adopted policy changes that over time are reducing carriers' access rates. In July 2012, we modified our applicable state access tariffs and billing to implement the FCC's required reduction in intrastate access charges. These rules have resulted in a loss of revenues and an increase in our volume of carrier disputes, and we expect this to continue. Switched access and reciprocal compensation together have been declining over time. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compensate for the reduction in intercarrier compensation revenue with other revenue sources or increased volume. Failure to obtain and maintain necessary permits and rights-of-way could interfere with our network infrastructure and operations. We must negotiate and manage agreements with state highway authorities, local governments, transit authorities, local telephone companies and other utilities, railroads, long distance carriers and other parties to obtain and maintain rights-of-way and similar franchises and licenses needed to install, operate and maintain fiber optic cable and our other network elements. If any of these authorizations terminate or lapse, our operations could be adversely affected.We have substantial business relationships with several large telecommunications carriers, and some of our customer agreements may not continue due to financial difficulty, acquisitions, non-renewal or other factors, which could adversely affect our wholesale revenue and results of operations. We generate wholesale revenue from the sale of transmission capacity to other telecommunications carriers and have substantial business relationships with several large telecommunications carriers for whom we provide services. Replacing this wholesale revenue may be difficult because individual enterprise and small to medium business customers tend to place smaller service orders than our larger carrier customers. In addition, pricing pressure on services that we sell to our carrier customers may challenge our ability to grow revenue from carrier customers. As a result, if our larger carrier customers terminate the services they receive from us, our wholesale revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected. We obtain a majority of our network equipment and software from a limited number of third-party suppliers.We obtain the majority of our network equipment and software from a limited number of third-party suppliers. We also rely on these suppliers for technical support and assistance. If any of these relationships is terminated or if the third-party suppliers were to otherwise fail to provide necessary equipment and software, our ability to efficiently maintain, upgrade or expand our network could be impaired. Although we believe that we would be able to address our future equipment needs with equipment obtained from other suppliers, we cannot assure that such equipment would be compatible with our network without significant modifications or cost, if at all. If we were unable to obtain the equipment necessary to maintain our network, our ability to attract and retain customers and provide our services would be impaired. Work stoppages experienced by other communications companies on whom we rely for service could adversely impact our ability to provision and service our customers. To offer voice and data services , we must interconnect our network with the networks of the incumbent carriers. We place a significant amount of reliance on these carriers to provide these connections promptly after we place the order, so that we can complete the provisioning of services for our customers. Work stoppages experienced by AT&T Inc.,Verizon Communications, Inc. or any other carrier on which we rely, whether due to labor disputes or other matters, could adversely affect our business 20Table of Contentsthrough unanticipated delays in the delivery of services purchased to our customers and increased prices to source purchases through alternative vendors, and ultimately could result in cancellation of pending orders. Additionally, work stoppages could result in delays in scheduled or necessary maintenance events in response to trouble tickets or outages on our vendor's networks for existing customer services or for services that we purchase from them for our own needs. Any such disruption could have an adverse effect on our business, our results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to Our Consumer Services SegmentOur commercial and alliance arrangements may not be renewed or may not generate expected benefits, which could adversely affect our results of operations.A significant number of our new consumer subscribers are generated through our agreements with Time Warner Cable and Bright House Networks, Dish Network and other strategic alliances. Generally, our strategic alliances and marketing relationships are not exclusive and may have a short term. Our agreement with Time Warner Cable and Bright House Networks expires in October 2013. Our agreement with Dish Network operates on an annual renewal basis and expires in August 2013. There are no assurances we will be able to renew these agreements or other strategic alliances as they expire or otherwise terminate, or that we will receive the same benefits as we do today if the agreements are extended. Our inability to maintain our marketing relationships or establish new marketing relationships could result in delays and increased costs in adding paying subscribers and adversely affect our ability to add new customers, which could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, there is no commitment for Time Warner Cable and Bright House Networks and other partners to provide us with new customers and these partners may market their own services rather than ours. We have experienced a decrease in new consumer subscribers as a result of decreased marketing efforts of some of our partners. Further decreases in the number of new consumer subscribers generated through these relationships could adversely affect our results of operations.Our consumer business is dependent on the availability of third-party network service providers.Our consumer business depends on the capacity, affordability, reliability and security of third-party network service providers. Only a small number of providers offer the network services we require, and the majority of our network services are currently purchased from a limited number of network service providers. Our largest providers of broadband connectivity are AT&T, Bright House Networks, CenturyLink, Comcast Corporation, MegaPath, Time Warner Cable and Verizon. Many network service providers have merged and may continue to merge, which would reduce the number of suppliers from which we could purchase network services.Our principal provider for narrowband services is Level 3 Communications, Inc. We also purchase narrowband services from certain regional and local providers. Level 3 is planning on decommissioning its managed modem network at the end of 2013 and we will have to transition customers to other narrowband providers.We cannot be certain of renewal or non-termination of our contracts or that legislative or regulatory factors will not affect our contracts. Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to renew or extend contracts with our current network service providers on acceptable terms, renew or extend current contracts with our network service providers at all, acquire similar network capacity from other network providers, or otherwise maintain or extend our footprint. Additionally, each of our network service providers sells network access to some of our competitors and could choose to grant those competitors preferential network access or pricing. Many of our network service providers compete with us in the market to provide consumer Internet access. As our consumer business continues to decline, our vendors may not want to continue their relationship with us or do so at current prices. In addition, as our consumer subscribers continue to decline, our value-added partners may raise their wholesale prices or discontinue their partnering relationship with us. Such events may cause us to incur additional costs, pay increased rates for wholesale access services, increase the retail prices of our service offerings and/or discontinue providing retail access services, any of which could adversely affect our ability to compete in the market for consumer access services.We face significant competition in the Internet access industry that could reduce our profitability.The Internet access industry is extremely competitive, and we expect competition to continue to intensify. We compete directly or indirectly with national communications companies and local exchange carriers, such as AT&T, CenturyLink, Verizon and Windstream; cable companies providing broadband access, including Charter Communications, Inc., Comcast, Cox Communications, Inc. and Time Warner Cable; local and regional ISPs; established online services companies, such as AOL and the Microsoft Network; free or value-priced ISPs, such as United Online, Inc. which provides service under the brands Juno and NetZero; wireless Internet service providers; content companies and email providers, such as Google and Yahoo!; social networking companies, such as Facebook; and satellite and fixed wireless service providers. In addition, technologies such as 4G, Ethernet or other alternatives to network access, have products or services that compete with ours. Competitors for our advertising services also include content providers, large web publishers, web search engine and portal companies, Internet advertising providers, content aggregation companies, social-networking web sites, and various other companies that facilitate Internet advertising. 21Table of ContentsWe believe the primary competitive factors in the Internet access industry are price, speed, features, coverage area and quality of service. While we believe our Internet access services compete favorably based on some of these factors when compared to some Internet access providers, we are at a competitive disadvantage relative to some or all of these factors with respect to other of our competitors. Current and potential competitors include many large companies that have substantially greater market presence and greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have. Our dial-up Internet access services do not compete favorably with broadband services with respect to speed, and dial-up Internet access services no longer have a significant, if any, price advantage over certain broadband services. Most of the largest providers of broadband services, such as cable and telecommunications companies, control their own networks and offer a wider variety of services than we offer, including voice, data and video services. Their ability to bundle services and to offer broadband services at prices below the price that we can profitably offer comparable services puts us at a competitive disadvantage. In addition, our only significant access to offer broadband services over cable is through our agreement with Time Warner Cable and Bright House Networks.Competition could adversely impact us in several ways, including: (i) the loss of customers and resulting revenue; (ii) the possibility of customers shifting to less profitable services; (iii) the need to lower prices of our services; and (iv) the need to increase marketing expenses or other operating costs to remain competitive. We experience pricing pressures for our consumer access services, particularly our consumer broadband services, due to competition, volume-based pricing and other factors. Many providers have reduced and may continue to reduce the retail price of their Internet access services to maintain or increase their market share, which could cause us to reduce, or prevent us from raising, our prices. We may encounter further market pressures to: migrate existing customers to lower-priced service offerings; restructure service offerings to offer more value; reduce prices; and respond to particular short-term, market-specific situations, such as special introductory pricing or new product or service offerings. Any of the above could adversely affect our revenues and profitability.The continued decline of our consumer access subscribers, combined with the change in mix of our consumer access base from narrowband to broadband, will adversely affect our results of operations. During the year ended December 31, 2012, our average consumer access subscribers decreased from 1.5 million to 1.2 million. Our consumer access subscriber base and revenues have been declining due to continued maturation of the market for Internet access and competitive pressures in the industry. We expect our consumer access subscriber base and revenues to continue to decline, which will adversely affect our profitability and results of operations. In addition, we have done, and expect to continue to do, targeted price increases, which could negatively impact our churn rates. Our strategy for consumer access subscribers is to engage in limited sales and marketing efforts and focus instead on retaining customers and adding customers that are more likely to produce an acceptable rate of return. If we do not maintain our relationships with current customers or acquire new customers, our revenues will decline and our profitability will be adversely affected. Changes in the mix of our consumer access subscriber base, from narrowband access to broadband access, have also negatively affected our consumer access profitability. Our consumer broadband access services have lower gross margins due to the higher costs associated with delivering broadband services. Our ability to provide these services profitably is dependent upon cost-effectively purchasing wholesale broadband access and managing the costs associated with delivering broadband services. While we continuously evaluate cost reduction opportunities associated with the delivery of broadband access services, our overall profitability will be adversely affected if we are unable to continue to manage and reduce costs associated with the delivery of broadband services. In addition, we will not be able to reduce costs proportional to our revenue declines over time.Potential regulation of Internet service providers could adversely affect our operations.Narrowband. Our Internet access services are not currently subject to substantial regulation by the FCC or state public utilities commissions. Both Congress and the FCC are considering proposals that involve greater regulation of IP-based service providers. Depending on the content and scope of any regulations, the imposition of such regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business and the profitability of our services. Currently, narrowband Internet access is classified as an “information service” and is not subject to traditional telecommunications services regulation, such as licensing or pricing regulation. Any change to these rules that would apply per-minute carrier access charges to dial-up Internet access traffic could significantly impact our costs for this service. While Internet traffic is not subject to the FCC's carrier access charge regime, intercarrier compensation for dial-up ISP bound traffic is regulated by the FCC. The FCC has established a uniform, nationwide rate for ISP-bound traffic. Broadband. Broadband Internet access is also currently classified as an “information service.” While current policy exempts broadband access services from the Universal Service Fund ("USF"), the Congress and FCC may consider expanding the USF to include broadband Internet access services. This change could allow broadband service providers to receive a subsidy for deploying broadband in rural and underserved areas, but it will most likely require broadband service providers to contribute to the fund as well. If broadband Internet access providers become subject to USF contribution obligations, they would likely 22Table of Contentsimpose a USF surcharge on end users. Such a surcharge will raise the effective cost of our broadband services to our customers, which could adversely affect customer satisfaction and have an adverse impact on our revenues and profitability.VoIP. The current regulatory environment for VoIP services remains unclear, as the FCC has not decided whether VoIP is an “information service” or “telecommunications service”. Classifying VoIP as a telecommunications service could require us to obtain a telecommunications license for VoIP services. However, under FCC rules, our VoIP services are required to comply with many of the same regulatory obligations, including payment of fees, as legacy telephone services. Also, under rules adopted by the FCC in November 2011, VoIP services are now subject to a modified interstate access charge regime, although the rules provide for these charges to be phased out over a period of several years. In addition, our E911 emergency service for our VoIP services is different in significant respects from the emergency calling services offered by traditional wireline telephone companies. Those differences may cause significant delays, or even failures, in callers' receipt of the emergency assistance they need. VoIP providers are not currently protected by legislation, so any resulting liability could be substantial. General RisksIf we, or other industry participants, are unable to successfully defend against disputes or legal actions, we could face substantial liabilities or suffer harm to our financial and operational prospects.We are currently a party to various disputes, litigation or other legal proceedings arising from normal business activities, including regulatory audits, trademark and patent infringement, billing disputes, rights of access, tax, consumer protection, employment and tort. The result of any current or future disputes, litigation or other legal proceedings is inherently unpredictable. Defending against disputes, litigation or other legal proceedings may involve significant expense and diversion of management's attention and resources from other matters. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation, we may not prevail in these actions. In addition, our ongoing operations may subject us to litigation risks and costs in the future. Both the costs of defending lawsuits and any settlements or judgments against us could adversely affect our results of operations.We are also subject to the risks associated with the resolution of various third-party disputes, lawsuits, arbitrations and proceedings affecting our Business Services segment. The deregulation of the telecommunications industry, the implementation of the Telecommunications Act of 1996, the evolution of telecommunications infrastructure from time-division multiplexing to Internet Protocol, and the distress of many carriers in the telecommunications industry as a result of continued competitive factors and financial pressures have resulted in the involvement of numerous industry participants in disputes, lawsuits, proceedings and arbitrations before state and federal regulatory commissions, private arbitration organizations such as the American Arbitration Association, and courts over many issues that will be important to our financial and operational success. These issues include the interpretation and enforcement of existing interconnection agreements and tariffs, the terms of new interconnection agreements, operating performance obligations, intercarrier compensation, treatment of different categories of traffic (for example, traffic originated or terminated on wireless or VoIP), the jurisdiction of traffic for intercarrier compensation purposes, the wholesale services and facilities available to us, the prices we will pay for those services and facilities and the regulatory treatment of new technologies and services. We may be accused of infringing upon the intellectual property rights of third parties, which is costly to defend and could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future.From time to time third parties have alleged that we infringe on their intellectual property rights and we expect to continue to be subject to such claims. We may be unaware of filed patent applications and of issued patents that could be related to our products and services. Some of the largest communications providers, such as AT&T, Sprint Nextel and Verizon, have substantial patent holdings. These providers have successfully asserted their claims against some communications companies, and have filed pending lawsuits against various competitive carriers. While we have been subject to these disputes in the past, the number has increased since our acquisitions of ITC^DeltaCom and One Communications. Certain of these claims are made by patent holding companies that are not operating companies. The alleging parties generally seek royalty payments for prior use as well as future royalty streams. Defending against disputes, litigation or other legal proceedings, whether or not meritorious, may involve significant expense and diversion of management's attention and resources from other matters. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation, we may not prevail in these actions. Both the costs of defending lawsuits and any settlements or judgments against us could adversely affect our results of operations.We may not be able to protect our intellectual property.We regard our trademarks, including EarthLink, EarthLink Business, EarthLink Carrier and PeoplePC, as valuable assets to our business. In particular, we believe the strength of these brands among existing and potential customers is important to the success of our business. Additionally, our EarthLink, EarthLink Business, EarthLink Carrier and PeoplePC service marks, 23Table of Contentsproprietary technologies, domain names and similar intellectual property are also important to the success of our business. We principally rely upon trademark law as well as contractual restrictions to establish and protect our technology and proprietary rights and information. We require employees and consultants and, when possible, suppliers and distributors to sign confidentiality agreements, and we generally control access to, and distribution of, our technologies, documentation and other proprietary information. The efforts we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our trademarks and similar proprietary rights. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use, our brand image may be harmed and our business may suffer. In addition, protecting our intellectual property and other proprietary rights is expensive and time consuming. Any increase in the unauthorized use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive to do business and consequently harm our results of operations.We may be unable to hire and retain sufficient qualified personnel, and the loss of any of our key executive officers could adversely affect us.Our business depends on our ability to hire and retain key executive officers, senior management, sales and other key personnel, many of whom have significant experience in our industry and whose expertise is required to successfully transition our business into an IT services company. There is substantial and continuous competition for highly skilled sales and IT personnel. Acquisitions and workforce reductions may affect our ability to retain or replace key personnel, harm employee morale and productivity or disrupt our business. Key employees may depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty resulting from integration changes or a desire not to remain with us following a merger transaction or a restructuring. Effective succession planning is important to our long-term success. Failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and transitions involving key employees could hinder execution of our business strategies. Finally, the loss of any of our key executives could impair our ability to execute our business strategy or otherwise have a material adverse effect on us.Our business depends on effective business support systems and processes.Our business relies on our data, billing and other operational and financial reporting and control systems. To effectively manage our information technology infrastructure, we will need to continue to maintain our data, billing and other operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, which can be costly. We have experienced system failures from time to time, and any interruption in the availability of our business support systems, in particular our billing systems, could result in an immediate, and possibly substantial, loss of revenues. Our ability to maintain, expand and update our information technology infrastructure in response to acquisitions, growth and changing needs is important to the continued implementation of our business strategy. In addition, as our consumer business continues to decline, we are more dependent on fewer individuals to maintain our internal consumer business systems. Our inability to maintain, expand or upgrade our technology infrastructure could have adverse consequences, which could include the delayed implementation of new service offerings, increased acquisition integration costs, service or billing interruptions and the diversion of development resources.Privacy concerns relating to our business could damage our reputation and deter current and potential users from using our services. Concerns about our practices with regard to the collection, use, disclosure or security of personal information or other privacy-related matters, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation and operating results. We strive to comply with all applicable data protection laws and regulations, as well as our own posted privacy policies. However, any failure or perceived failure to comply with these laws, regulations or policies may result in proceedings or actions against us by government entities or others, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Federal and state governments have adopted consumer protection laws and undertaken enforcement actions to address advertising and user privacy. Our services and business practices, or changes to our services and business practices could subject us to investigation or enforcement actions if we fail to adequately comply with applicable consumer protection laws. Existing and future federal and state laws and regulations also may affect the manner in which we are required to protect confidential customer data and other information, which could increase the cost of our operations and our potential liability if the security of our confidential customer data is breached. Cyber security breaches could harm our business.The services we offer involve the storage and transmission of customers' proprietary information and cyber security breaches expose us to a risk of unauthorized access to this information. The risk that a security breach could seriously harm our business is likely to increase as we expand our cloud and IT solutions business. We are regularly subject to cyber security attacks and are also subject to employee error or malfeasance or other disruptions, although no attack or other disruption has had material consequences to date. Techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally 24Table of Contentsare not recognized until launched against a target. We may be required to use significant capital and other resources to remedy, protect against or alleviate these and related problems, and we may not be able to remedy these problems in a timely manner, or at all. A material security breach could damage our reputation, increase our security costs, expose us to litigation and lead to the loss of existing or potential customers. If our services are perceived as not being secure, our business, including our strategy to serve as an IT services company for small and medium-sized businesses with IT and network security needs, may be adversely affected.Interruption or failure of our network and information systems and other technologies could impair our ability to provide our services, which could damage our reputation and harm our operating results. Our success depends on our ability to provide reliable service. Our network, network operations centers, central offices, corporate headquarters and those of our third party service providers are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fires, earthquakes, hurricanes, tornados, floods and other natural disasters, terrorist attacks, power loss, capacity limitations, telecommunications failures, software and hardware defects or malfunctions, break ins, sabotage and vandalism, human error and other disruptions that are beyond our control. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning may not be adequate. We have experienced interruptions in service in the past due to factors such as vulnerabilities in equipment, configuration, design and operating procedures. We also experience interruptions due to cable damage, theft of our equipment, power outages, inclement weather and service failures of our third-party service providers. We may experience service interruptions or system failures in the future. We are investing significant capital to enhance, expand and increase the reliability of our network, but these capital expenditures may not achieve the results we expect. The occurrence of any disruption or system failure may result in a loss of business, increase expenses, damage our reputation for providing reliable service, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny or expose us to litigation and possible financial losses, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Government regulations could adversely affect our business or force us to change our business practices. Our services are subject to varying degrees of federal, state and local regulation. Federal, state and local regulations governing our services are the subject of ongoing judicial proceedings, rulemakings and legislative initiatives that could change the manner in which our industry operates and affect our business. Changes in regulations or in governing legislation, such as the Telecommunications Act of 1996, could have a significant effect on our business, particularly if the change impairs our ability to interconnect with incumbent carrier networks, lease portions of other carriers' networks or resell their services at reasonable prices, or lease elements of networks of the ILECs under acceptable rates, terms and conditions. We cannot predict the outcome of any ongoing legislative initiatives or administrative or judicial proceedings or their potential impact upon the communications and information technology industries generally or upon us specifically. Failure to make proper payments for federal USF assessments, FCC regulatory fees or other amounts mandated by federal and state regulations; failure to maintain proper state tariffs and certifications; failure to comply with federal, state or local laws and regulations; failure to obtain and maintain required licenses, franchises and permits; imposition of burdensome license, franchise or permit requirements for us to operate in public rights-of-way; and imposition of new burdensome or adverse regulatory requirements could limit the types of services we provide or the terms on which we provide these services. Our business also is subject to a variety of other U.S. laws and regulations from various entities, including the Federal Trade Commission, the Environmental Protection Agency and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, as well as by state and local regulatory agencies, that could subject us to liabilities, claims or other remedies. Compliance with these laws and regulations is complex and may require significant costs. In addition, the regulatory framework relating to Internet and communications services is evolving and both the federal government and states from time to time pass legislation that impacts our business. It is likely that additional laws and regulations will be adopted that would affect our business. We cannot predict the impact future laws, regulatory changes or developments may have on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The enactment of any additional laws or regulations, increased enforcement activity of existing laws and regulations, or claims by individuals could significantly impact our costs or the manner in which we conduct business, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations and cause our business to suffer.Regulatory audits have in the past, and could in the future, result in increased costs.We are subject to regulatory audits in the ordinary course of business with respect to various matters, including audits by the Universal Service Administrative Company on USF assessments and payments. These audits can cover periods for several years prior to the date the audit is undertaken and could result in the imposition of liabilities, interest and penalties if our positions are not accepted by the auditing entity. Our financial statements contain reserves for certain of such potential liabilities which we consider reasonable. During the second quarter of 2012, we recorded an $8.3 million charge to increase our reserves for regulatory 25Table of Contentsaudits, primarily an audit currently being conducted by the Universal Service Administrative Company on previous ITC^DeltaCom Universal Service Fund assessments and payments. Calculation of payments due with respect to these matters can be complex and subject to differences in interpretation. As a result, these audits could result in liabilities in excess of such reserves which could adversely affect our results of operations.Our business may suffer if third parties are unable to provide services or terminate their relationships with us.Our business and financial results depend, in part, on the availability and quality of certain third-party service providers. Specifically, we rely on third parties for customer service and technical support, web hosting services, certain billing and collection services and E911 service for our VoIP services. Our Consumer Services segment relies primarily on one customer service and technical support vendor. We may have to increase the price we pay or find a new supplier, which could impact our customers' experience and increase churn. We are not currently equipped to provide the necessary range of service and support functions in the event that any of our service providers become unable or unwilling to offer these services to us. Our outsourced customer support providers utilize international locations to provide us with customer service and technical support services, and as a result, our customer support providers may become subject to financial, economic, environmental and political risks beyond our or the providers' control, which could jeopardize their ability to deliver customer service and technical support services. In addition, our VoIP services, including our E911 service, depend on the proper functioning of facilities and equipment owned and operated by third parties and is, therefore, beyond our control. If one or more of our service providers does not provide us with quality services, or if our relationship with any of our third party vendors terminates and we are unable to provide those services internally or identify a replacement vendor in an orderly, cost-effective and timely manner, our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows could suffer.We may be required to recognize impairment charges on our goodwill and intangible assets, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial position.As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $379.4 million of goodwill and $214.7 million of other intangible assets. Of the goodwill, $290.5 million was allocated to our Business Services reporting unit and $88.9 million was allocated to our Consumer Services reporting unit. We perform an impairment test of our goodwill annually during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year or when events occur or circumstances change that would more-likely-than-not indicate that goodwill or any such assets might be impaired. We evaluate the recoverability of our definite-lived intangible assets for impairment when events occur or circumstances change that would indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or intangible assets may not be recoverable, include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, higher customer churn and slower growth rates in our industry. The estimated fair value of our Business Services reporting unit exceeded its carrying value by approximately 3% in our fiscal 2012 goodwill impairment test. Deterioration in estimated future cash flows in this reporting unit could result in future goodwill impairment. As we continue to assess the ongoing expected cash flows and carrying amounts of our goodwill and other intangible assets, changes in economic conditions, changes to our business strategy, changes in operating performance or other indicators of impairment could cause us to record a significant impairment charge during the period in which the impairment is determined, negatively impacting our results of operations and financial position.We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities and the use of our net operating losses and certain other tax attributes could be limited in the future.As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $493.6 million of tax net operating losses for federal income tax purposes and approximately $786.4 million of tax net operating losses for state income tax purposes, which includes federal and state net operating losses acquired in connection with our acquisitions. The tax net operating losses for federal income tax purposes begin to expire in 2019 and the tax net operating losses for state income tax purposes began to expire in 2012. Our future income taxes could be adversely affected by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, including the realizability of these assets, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof. Our determination of our tax liability is always subject to review by applicable tax authorities. Any adverse outcome of such a review could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, the determination of our provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment, and there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. An “ownership change” that occurs during a “testing period” (as such terms are defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended) could place significant limitations, on an annual basis, on the use of such net operating losses 26Table of Contentsto offset future taxable income we may generate. In general, future stock transactions and the timing of such transactions could cause an “ownership change” for income tax purposes. Such transactions may include our purchases under our share repurchase program, additional issuances of common stock by us and acquisitions or sales of shares by certain holders of our shares, including persons who have held, currently hold, or may accumulate in the future five percent or more of our outstanding stock. Many of these transactions are beyond our control. Calculations of an “ownership change” under Section 382 are complex and to some extent are dependent on information that is not publicly available. The risk of an “ownership change” occurring could increase if additional shares are repurchased, if additional persons acquire five percent or more of our outstanding common stock in the near future and/or current five percent stockholders increase their interest. Due to this risk, we monitor our purchases of additional shares of our common stock. Since an “ownership change” also could result from a change in control of our company, with subsequent annual limitations on the use of our net operating losses, this could discourage a change in control.Risks Related to Our Liquidity and Financial ResourcesOur indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and limit our ability to react to changes in our industry.As of December 31, 2012, we had $592.3 million outstanding principal amount of debt, which consisted of $292.3 million outstanding principal amount of ITC^DeltaCom's 10.5% senior secured notes due 2016 (the “ITC^DeltaCom Notes”) and $300.0 million outstanding principal amount of EarthLink's 8.875% senior notes due 2019 (the “Senior Notes”). We also have an additional $150.0 million of unutilized capacity under our senior secured revolving credit facility and we may incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. Our substantial indebtedness may:•make it difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations, including making scheduled principal and interest payments on our indebtedness;•limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes;•limit our ability to use our cash flow or obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes;•require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments;•limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry;•place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; and•increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions.Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness will depend on our ability in the future to generate cash flows from operations, which is subject to all the risks of our business. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows from operations for us to repay our indebtedness when such indebtedness becomes due and to meet our other cash needs. We may require substantial capital to support business growth or refinance existing indebtedness, and this capital may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all.We may require substantial capital to maintain, upgrade and enhance our network facilities and operations, including fiber network expansion and investment in our nationwide data center footprint. We expect to incur capital expenditures of approximately $140.0 million to $155.0 million in 2013. We may require additional capital to support our business growth, including the need to develop new services and products, enhance our operating infrastructure or acquire complementary businesses and technologies. While we have historically funded capital expenditures from cash generated by operations, we may be required to raise additional capital. We may raise additional funds to refinance existing indebtedness such as the ITC^DeltaCom Notes. We may not be able to secure additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, or at all, at the time we desire to obtain such funding. If we are unable to obtain additional capital when desired, we may not be able to pursue our growth strategy, refinance indebtedness or lower surrounding costs and our business could suffer. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of our company, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. In addition, any debt financing that we may obtain in the future could have restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions.27Table of ContentsOur debt agreements include restrictive covenants, and failure to comply with these covenants could trigger acceleration of payment of outstanding indebtedness.The agreements that govern the ITC^DeltaCom Notes, Senior Notes and senior secured revolving credit facility impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit or restrict, among other things, our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to:•incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock; •pay dividends or make other distributions to stockholders; •purchase or redeem capital stock or subordinated indebtedness;•make investments;•create liens or use assets as security;•enter into agreements restricting such restricted subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends, make loans or transfer assets to us or other restricted subsidiaries;•engage in transactions with affiliates; and•consolidate or merge with or into other companies or transfer all or substantially all of our or their assets. If we breach any of these covenants, a default could result under one or more of these agreements, which may require us to repay some or all of our indebtedness.Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common StockWe may reduce, or cease payment of, quarterly cash dividends.The payment of future quarterly dividends is discretionary and is subject to determination by our Board of Directors each quarter following its review of our financial condition, results of operations, cash requirements, investment opportunities and such other factors as are deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. Changes in our business needs, including funding for acquisitions, capital expenditures and working capital, or a change in tax laws relating to dividends, among other factors, could cause our Board of Directors to decide to reduce, or cease the payment of, dividends in the future. In addition, the agreements governing our Senior Notes and our senior secured revolving credit facility contain restrictions on the amount of dividends we can pay. There can be no assurance that we will not decrease or discontinue quarterly cash dividends, and if we do, our stock price could be negatively impacted. Our stock price may be volatile.The trading price of our common stock may be subject to fluctuations in response to certain events and factors, such as our entry into business combinations or other major transactions; quarterly variations in results of operations; changes in financial estimates; changes in recommendations or reduced coverage by securities analysts; the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us; news reports relating to trends in the markets in which we operate; market trends unrelated to our performance; and general economic conditions. A significant drop in our stock price could also expose us to the risk of securities class action lawsuits, which could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. Finally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, many of whom have been granted stock incentive awards.Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and other elements of our capital structure could limit our share price and delay a change of control of the company.Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult or even prevent a third party from acquiring us without the approval of our incumbent Board of Directors. These provisions, among other things, limit the right of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders and authorize the Board of Directors to issue preferred stock in one or more series without any action on the part of stockholders. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and significantly impede the ability of the holders of our common stock to change control of the company. These provisions that inhibit or discourage takeover attempts could reduce the market value of our common stock.28Table of ContentsItem 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.None.