ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Before deciding to purchase, hold or sell our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere and the other information contained in this Report and in our other filings with the SEC, including subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs with material adverse effects on STEC, our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or liquidity could be seriously harmed, which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. In addition, the trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Historically, sales to a limited number of customers, particularly EMC Corporation, have comprised a significant portion of our revenues and the loss of, or significant reduction in purchases by, any key customer could materially impact our financial results. Historically, sales to a relatively limited number of customers have accounted for a significant percentage of our revenues. In 2011, 2010 and 2009, sales to our ten largest customers accounted for an aggregate of 89.5%, 88.0% and 86.9%, respectively, of our total revenues. In 2011 our largest customer was EMC Corporation (“EMC”), which accounted for 26.3% of our total revenues. 11 The major industries in which we participate are dominated by a limited number of OEM companies; therefore, the rate of SSD adoption will be driven by a limited number of potential customers. In addition, the industries in which many of our customers compete have experienced, and may continue to experience, consolidation which may result in increased customer concentration and/or the loss of customers. The composition of our major customer base changes from quarter to quarter as the market demand for our customers’ products changes, and we expect this variability to continue in the future. Our customers’ demand for our products can vary considerably from quarter to quarter, and it is difficult to forecast our customers’ demand beyond the immediate future, as purchases in one period may not be indicative of purchases in future periods. We expect that sales of our products to a limited number of customers will continue to comprise a substantial portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. The loss of, or a significant reduction in purchases by, any of our major customers could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, the results of our operations during the first half of 2010 were negatively impacted due to an inventory carryover by EMC. If we are unable to secure significant purchase orders from EMC or our other large customers in the future, our financial results may be negatively impacted. We may not be able to maintain or improve our competitive position because of the intense competition in the memory and storage industry. We conduct business in an industry characterized by intense competition. We primarily compete with Fusion-io, Hitachi GST, Intel, LSI, Micron, OCZ, Samsung, SanDisk, Seagate, SMART Modular, Toshiba, and Western Digital in connection with the sale of our products. Our competitors include many large U.S. and international companies that have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources, broader product lines, lower cost structures, greater brand recognition and longer-standing relationships with customers and suppliers. The pending merger between Hitachi GST and Western Digital, and the recently closed merger between Samsung’s HDD business and Seagate could exacerbate the degree of competition we face. Our larger, more heavily resourced competitors may be in a better position than us to influence or respond to new or emerging technologies or standards and changes in customer requirements. Our competitors may also be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of products, and may be able to deliver competitive products at a lower price. Some of our competitors earn a significant portion of their revenue from business units outside the storage industry. Because they do not depend solely on sales of storage products to achieve profitability, they may sell storage devices at lower prices and operate their storage business unit at a loss over an extended period of time while choosing to offset these losses with profits from other business units. In addition, some of our customers have integrated and may continue to integrate lower cost, lower performance Serial Advanced Technology Attachment (“SATA”) drives with a Serial Attached Small Computer Interface System (“SAS”) or Fibre Channel (“FC”) connectivity bridge instead of our native SAS and Fibre Channel ZeusIOPS® products, thereby offering a lower cost alternative to our products and negatively affecting the sales of our products to those customers. Furthermore, competitive SAS and/or FC based SSDs have already been qualified at certain of our customers, which has lead to a reduction in orders of our ZeusIOPS® SSDs. Our operating results may be adversely affected if we cannot successfully compete with the pricing by these companies. Some of our significant suppliers, including Samsung and Toshiba, are also our competitors, and have the ability to manufacture competitive products at lower costs as a result of their higher levels of integration. In addition, these suppliers may reduce the supply of memory chips available to the industry or us. We also face competition from current and prospective customers that evaluate our capabilities against the merits of manufacturing products internally. Competition may arise from new and emerging companies or from the development of cooperative relationships among our current and potential competitors or third parties to develop products that address the needs of our customers. We expect our competitors will continue to improve the performance of their current products, reduce their prices and introduce new products that may offer greater performance, or otherwise render our technology or products obsolete or uncompetitive, any of which could cause a decline in our operating results or loss of market acceptance of our products. 12 The introduction and acceptance of new and enhanced versions of our products may cause fluctuations in our operating results. The introduction of new and enhanced versions of our products may shorten the life cycle of our existing products, or replace sales of some of our current products, thereby offsetting the benefit of even a successful product introduction, and may cause customers to defer purchasing our existing products in anticipation of the new and enhanced versions. Conversely, customers may accelerate purchases of existing products and defer purchases of new life cycle products due to the cost and lead times involved in the qualification of new products. Any of these instances may cause volatility in our operating results and fluctuations in our inventory levels. The complexity and difficulties in managing product transitions at the end-of-life stage of a product can also create excess inventory associated with the outgoing product that can also lead to product obsolescence and increased expenses. Any or all of the above problems could materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may be less competitive if we fail to develop new and enhanced products and introduce them in a timely manner. The enterprise-storage, enterprise-server, and government, defense and industrial applications markets are subject to rapid technological change, product obsolescence, frequent new product introductions and enhancements, changes in end-user requirements and evolving industry standards. Our ability to compete in these markets will depend in significant part upon our ability to successfully develop, introduce and sell new and enhanced products on a timely and cost-effective basis, and to respond to changing customer requirements. Delays in the development and introduction of new products could provide a competitor a first-to-market opportunity and allow a competitor to achieve greater market share. Once a customer designs a competitor’s product into its product offering, it becomes significantly more difficult for us to sell our products to that customer because changing suppliers involves significant cost, time, effort and risk for the customer. Our product development is inherently risky because it is difficult to foresee developments in technology, anticipate the adoption of new standards, coordinate our technical personnel, and identify and eliminate design flaws. Defects or errors found in our products after commencement of production could result in significant delays and damage our reputation and competitive position. New products, even if first introduced by us, may not gain market acceptance or result in future profitability. Lack of market acceptance for our new products will jeopardize our ability to recoup research and development expenditures, hurt our reputation and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, after we have developed a new product, our customers will usually test and evaluate our products for three or more months before qualifying it for production and an additional three or more months to begin volume production of the equipment that incorporates our products. Even if a customer selects our product to incorporate into its equipment, we have no assurance that the customer will ultimately bring its product to market or that such effort by our customer will be successful. We may also seek to develop products with new standards for our industry; however, it will take time for these new standards and products to be adopted, for customers to accept and transition to these new products and for significant sales to be generated from them, if this happens at all. Moreover, broad acceptance of new standards or products by customers may reduce demand for our older products. If this decreased demand is not offset by increased demand for our new products, our results of operations could be harmed. There can be no assurances that any new products or standards we develop will be commercially successful. We have been named as a party to purported class action lawsuits and purported shareholder derivative actions, and we may be named in additional litigation, all of which could require significant management time and attention and result in significant legal expenses. An unfavorable outcome in one or more of these lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As described in detail in Note 7 – “Commitments and Contingencies” to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, a purported class action is pending in the United States 13 District Court for the Central District of California, alleging, among other things, that our Company and certain of our officers and directors violated the federal securities laws by issuing materially false and misleading statements. A similar purported class action is pending in the Superior Court for the County of Orange, California against our Company, certain of our officers and directors, and four of our underwriters, based on allegations substantially similar to the purported federal class action. In addition, purported shareholder derivative actions are pending in the Superior Court for the County of Orange, California and the United States District Court for the Central District of California against certain of our officers and directors based on allegations substantially similar to those set forth in the purported class action. Regardless of the merits, the expense of defending such litigation may have a substantial impact if our insurance carriers fail to cover, or provide adequate coverage given policy limits, the cost of the litigation, and the time required to defend the actions could divert management’s attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. An unfavorable outcome in such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission formal investigation could require significant management time and attention and result in significant legal expenses. An unfavorable outcome could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. As first disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) is conducting a formal investigation involving trading in our securities. We are fully cooperating with the SEC in regards to this investigation. On July 19, 2011, the Company received a “Wells Notice” from the SEC stating that the Staff of the SEC (the “Staff”) is considering recommending that the Commission institute a civil injunctive action against our Company, CEO and President for violations of the antifraud and reporting provisions of the federal securities laws. Under a process established by the SEC, we, in addition to our CEO and President, have the opportunity to submit to the Staff any reasons of law, policy or fact why we and the two company officers believe that the civil action should not be brought (a “Wells Submission”) before the Staff makes its formal recommendation to the SEC regarding what action, if any, should be brought. On August 29, 2011, our Company, CEO and President submitted a Wells Submission to the SEC. On January 4, 2012, our Company, CEO, and President submitted a supplemental Wells Submission to the SEC. We, including our CEO and President, continue to cooperate with the SEC to attempt to resolve the Staff’s concerns, but there can be no assurance that the SEC will decide not to bring an action against us or that the investigation will be concluded favorably. Regardless of the merits, the expense of defending such claims may have a substantial impact if our insurance carriers fail to cover, or provide adequate coverage given policy limits, the cost of the defense, and the time required to defend the actions could divert management’s attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. An unfavorable outcome of this investigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our stock price is volatile. Our common stock has been publicly traded since September 2000. The market price of our common stock has been subject to significant fluctuations since the date of our initial public offering. The stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of securities, particularly securities of technology companies. As a result, the market price of our common stock may materially decline, regardless of our operating performance. In addition, the market prices of securities of other technology companies have been and remain volatile. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. Accordingly, you may not be able to resell your shares of common stock at or above the price you paid. In the past, we and other companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their securities have been, and we currently are, the subject of securities class action litigation. Litigation of this type is often expensive, diverts management’s attention and resources and may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and market price of our common stock. 14 We are involved from time to time in claims and litigation over intellectual property rights, which may adversely affect our ability to manufacture and sell our products. Our industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights. It may be necessary, from time to time, to initiate litigation against third parties to preserve our intellectual property rights. Some of our suppliers and licensors have generally agreed to provide us with various levels of intellectual property indemnification for products and technology we purchase or license from them. A third party could claim that our products infringe or contribute to the infringement of a patent or other proprietary right. From time to time, we have received, and may continue to receive in the future, notices that claim we have infringed upon, misappropriated or misused other parties’ proprietary rights. Any of the foregoing events or claims could result in litigation. For example, as described in detail in Note 7 – “Commitments and Contingencies” to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, on September 7, 2011, Solid State Storage Solutions, Inc. filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas against us and several other defendants alleging that certain of our products and or/services infringe certain patents allegedly owned by Solid State Storage Solutions, Inc. Due to the early stage of this lawsuit and the inherent uncertainties of litigation, we are not able to predict either the outcome or a potential range of losses, if any, at this time. However, this and any future such litigation of this nature, whether as plaintiff or defendant, will likely result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, whether or not such litigation is ultimately determined in our favor. In the event of an adverse result in such litigation, we could be required to pay substantial damages, cease the manufacture, use and sale of certain products, expend significant resources to develop, license or acquire non-infringing technology, discontinue the use of certain processes or obtain licenses to use the infringed technology. In addition, our suppliers’ and licensors’ obligation to indemnify us for intellectual property infringement may be insufficient or inapplicable to any such litigation or other claims of intellectual property infringement. Our failure to obtain a required license on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, could cause us to incur substantial costs and suspend manufacturing products using the infringed technology. If we obtain a license, we would likely be required to pay license fees or make royalty payments for sales under the license. Such payments would increase our costs of revenues and reduce our gross margins and gross profit. If we are unable to obtain a license from a third party for technology, we could incur substantial liabilities or be required to expend substantial resources redesigning our products to eliminate the infringement. There can be no assurance that we would be successful in redesigning our products or that we could obtain licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Product development or license negotiating would likely result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. As we carry only limited insurance coverage, any incurred liability resulting from inadequately covered claims could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our insurance policies may not be adequate to fully offset losses from covered claims, and we do not have coverage for certain losses. We believe our existing insurance coverage is consistent with common practice and economic and availability considerations. However, if our insurance coverage is inadequate to protect us against unforeseen catastrophic losses or unpredictable liabilities, any uncovered losses or claims could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Business interruptions could substantially harm our business. Substantially all of our manufacturing operations are located in Penang, Malaysia. In addition, a substantial amount of our supply chain is dependent on international suppliers and a significant amount of our products are shipped to international customers. Further, we undertake various research and development, sales and marketing activities through regional offices in a number of foreign countries. These international operations are subject to many inherent risks, including but not limited to, human error, government intervention, political instability, acts of terrorism, power failures, health pandemics and natural disasters, including earthquakes, tsunamis, fires or floods, and disruptions in global transportation arising from labor difficulties, natural disasters and political 15 instability. Our U.S. operations are also subject to many of these inherent risks. For example, our headquarters and various U.S.-based research and development activities are located in Southern California, an area with above average seismic activity due to the proximity of major earthquake fault lines. In addition, our Santa Ana, California headquarters and our facility in Penang, Malaysia are located within close proximity to airports and flight paths. Any of these risks, could negatively impact our operations which could harm our business. In particular, a disruption to our facility in Penang, Malaysia could substantially limit our manufacturing capabilities. In addition, the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan has disrupted the global supply chain for components manufactured in Japan that are incorporated in our products and in the end user’s products of certain of our customers. Due to these cross dependencies, supply chain disruptions stemming from these natural disasters in Japan adversely affected the demand for our products during the last three quarters of 2011. Natural disasters in Southeast Asia may threaten the ability of our customers to obtain a sufficient supply of components required for their end products, causing them to postpone or cancel orders for our products which could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, Thailand’s infrastructure was severely damaged in October 2011 by flooding. The flooding has not had an immediate impact on our business because we do not have physical operations in the country and it does not appear that the flooding has negatively impacted our customers or their supply chains. We are monitoring recovery efforts in the country and are currently evaluating any lasting or residual impact that the flooding may have on our business. The market for enterprise Flash-based SSD products is relatively new and rapidly evolving, which makes it difficult to forecast end-user adoption rates and customer demand, for our products. The enterprise Flash-based SSD market is relatively new and rapidly evolving. As a result, we may encounter risks and uncertainties related to our business and future prospects. It is difficult to predict, with any precision, end-user adoption rates, customer demand for our products or the future growth rate and size of this market. Our ability to predict future sales is further limited because our SSDs are currently offered as options in our customers’ systems. Unless and until our SSDs are offered as a standard feature in our customers’ systems, this product runs the risk of serving a niche market and may never reach mass adoption, and our demand visibility may continue to be limited. Our dependence on a small number of component suppliers, including integrated circuit device suppliers, and our inability to obtain a sufficient supply of these components on a timely basis could harm our ability to fulfill orders. Typically integrated circuit (“IC”) devices represent more than 80% of the component costs of our products. We are dependent on a small number of suppliers that supply key components and important component-related information used in the development and manufacture of our products. Since we have no long-term supply contracts, there is no assurance that our suppliers will agree to supply the quantities of components we may need to meet our production requirements or the component information required to optimize these components in our finished products. In 2011, Hynix, Samsung and Toshiba supplied substantially all of the IC devices used in our Flash-based products while Samsung supplied substantially all of the DRAM IC devices used in our DRAM products. Our customers typically qualify the specific controller and Flash and DRAM ICs that are components in our products as part of the product qualification process. If any of our suppliers experience quality control problems, our products that utilize that supplier’s ICs may be disqualified by one or more of our customers. A supplier disqualification would disrupt our supply of ICs, reduce the number of suppliers available to us and adversely affect our ability to fulfill our customers’ product orders. In some instances, we may be required to qualify a new supplier’s ICs, which could negatively impact our revenues during the new qualification process. There can be no assurance that we would be able to find and successfully qualify new suppliers in a timely manner or obtain ICs from new suppliers on commercially reasonable terms, which could damage our relationships with existing or potential customers and could materially harm our operating results. 16 Moreover, from time to time, our suppliers experience shortages in IC devices and foundry services which have resulted in placing their customers, including us, on component allocation. This means that while we may have customer orders, we may not be able to obtain the materials that we need to fill those orders in a timely manner or at competitive prices. As a result, our reputation could be harmed, we may lose business from our customers, our revenues may decline, and we may lose market share to our competitors. In addition to Flash and DRAM ICs, a number of other components that we use in our products are available from only a single or limited number of suppliers. Furthermore, our suppliers rely upon certain rare earth materials that are necessary for the manufacturing of components for some of our products, and our business could be harmed if these suppliers experience shortages or delays of these rare earth materials. In addition, in the development of our own application-specific ICs (“ASICs”), we also depend on certain foundry subcontractors to manufacture these ASICs as well as on certain third-party subcontractors to assemble, obtain packaging materials for, and test these ASICs. Our dependence on a small number of suppliers and the lack of any guaranteed sources of supply expose us to several risks, including: • The inability to obtain an adequate supply of components; • The inability to obtain component information that is used in the optimization of a supplier’s components in our finished products; • Price increases, late deliveries and poor component quality; • An unwillingness of a supplier to supply such components to us; • A key supplier’s or sub-supplier’s inability to access credit necessary to operate its business; • A supplier’s or sub-supplier’s inability to source certain necessary rare earth materials to build its products; • Failure of a key supplier to remain in business or adjust to market conditions; • Consolidation among suppliers, resulting in some suppliers exiting the industry or discontinuing the manufacture of components; or • Failure of a supplier to meet our quality, yield or production requirements. Since we have no long-term supply contracts with these third-party foundry subcontractors, there is no guarantee that they will devote sufficient resources to manufacture our components. If we are unable to increase the capacity of our current subcontractors or qualify and engage additional subcontractors, we may not be able to meet demand for our products, which could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. In addition, we are not able to directly control component delivery schedules. If our products fail to meet our or our customers’ specifications for quality and reliability, our results of operations may be adversely impacted and our competitive position may suffer. Although we place great emphasis on product quality, we may from time to time experience problems with the performance of our products, which could result in one or more of the following: • Increased costs related to fulfillment of our warranty obligations; • The reduction, delay or cancellation of orders or the return of a significant amount of products; • Focused failure analysis causing distraction of the sales, operations and management teams; or • The loss of reputations in the market and customer goodwill. These factors could cause our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow to be materially and adversely affected. 17 Demand for storage capacity may not continue to grow at current industry estimates, which may lower the prices our customers are willing to pay for new products. Our customers’ demand for storage capacity may not continue to grow at current industry estimates as a result of developments in the regulation and enforcement of digital rights management, the emergence of processes such as cloud computing, data deduplication and storage virtualization, or otherwise. These factors could lead to our customers’ storage capacity needs being satisfied at lower prices, thereby decreasing our revenue. As a result, even with increasing aggregate demand for storage capacity, our average selling prices could decline, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may make acquisitions that are dilutive to existing shareholders, resulting in unanticipated accounting charges or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations. We intend to grow our business through business combinations or other acquisitions of businesses, products or technologies that allow us to complement our existing product offerings, expand our market coverage, increase our engineering workforce or enhance our technological capabilities. If we make any future acquisitions, we could issue stock that would dilute our shareholders’ percentage ownership, incur substantial debt, reduce our cash reserves or assume contingent liabilities. Furthermore, acquisitions may require material charges and could result in adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation, deferred compensation charges, in-process research and development charges, the amortization of amounts related to deferred compensation and identifiable purchased intangible assets or impairment of goodwill, any of which could negatively impact our results of operations. Our limited experience in acquiring other businesses, product lines and technologies may make it difficult for us to overcome problems encountered in connection with any acquisitions we may undertake. We continually evaluate and explore strategic opportunities as they arise, including business combinations, strategic partnerships, capital investments and the purchase, licensing or sale of assets. Our experience in acquiring other businesses, product lines and technologies is limited. The attention of our management team may be diverted from our core business if we undertake any future acquisitions. Any potential future acquisition involves numerous risks, including, among others: • Problems or delays in successfully closing the acquisition; • Problems or delays assimilating and integrating the purchased operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems; • Unanticipated costs and expenditures associated with the acquisition, including any need to infuse significant capital into the acquired operations; • Adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers, customers and strategic partners; • Risks associated with entering markets and foreign countries in which we have limited or no prior experience; • Contractual, intellectual property or employment issues; • Potential loss of key employees of purchased organizations; and • Potential litigation arising from the acquired company’s operations before the acquisition. These risks could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, harm our reputation and increase our expenses. Our inability to overcome problems encountered in connection with any acquisition could further divert the attention of management, utilize scarce corporate resources and otherwise harm our business. These challenges are magnified as the size of an acquisition increases, and we cannot assure you that we will realize the intended benefits of any acquisition. 18 We cannot assure that we will be able to consummate any pending or future acquisitions. We may not be able to find suitable acquisitions opportunities and even if we do find suitable acquisition opportunities, we may not be able to consummate the acquisitions on commercially acceptable terms or realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisitions we do undertake. We expect our quarterly operating results to fluctuate in future periods, causing our stock price to fluctuate or decline. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past, and we believe they will continue to do so in the future. Some of these fluctuations may be more pronounced than they were in the past due to the uncertain current global economic environment. Fluctuations in our operating results may be due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those identified throughout this “Risk Factors” section and the following: • Impact of changing and recently volatile U.S. and global economic conditions; • Our suppliers’ production levels for the components used in our products; • Our ability to procure required components; • Market acceptance of new and enhanced versions of our products; • Expansion of our international business, including the opening of offices and facilities in foreign countries; • The timing of the introduction of new products or components and enhancements to existing products or components by us, our competitors or our suppliers; • Fluctuations in the cost of components and changes in the average sales prices of our products; • Fluctuating market demand for our products; • Changes in our customer or product revenue mix; • The loss of one or more of our customers; • Our ability to successfully integrate any acquired businesses or assets; • Expenses associated with the start up of new operations or divisions; • Order cancellations, product returns, inventory buildups by customers and inventory write-downs; • Manufacturing inefficiencies associated with the start-up of new manufacturing operations, new products and volume production; • Expenses associated with strategic transactions, including acquisitions, joint ventures and capital investments; • Our ability to adequately support potential future rapid growth; • Our ability to absorb manufacturing overhead if revenues decline; • The effects of litigation; and • Increases in our sales and marketing and research and development expenses in connection with decisions to pursue new product initiatives. Due to such factors, quarterly revenues and results of operations are difficult to forecast, and period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be predictive of future performance. Ineffective management of inventory levels or product mix, order cancellations, product returns and inventory write-downs could adversely affect our results of operations. With certain exceptions, sales of our products are generally made through individual purchase orders and, in certain cases, are made under master agreements governing the terms and conditions of the customer 19 relationships. Some customers may have the ability to change, cancel or delay orders with limited or no penalties. It is difficult to accurately predict what or how many products our customers will need in the future. Anticipating demand is challenging because our customers face volatile pricing and unpredictable demand for their products and are increasingly focused on cash preservation and tighter inventory management. We have experienced cancellations of orders and changes in order levels from period-to-period, and we expect to continue to experience similar cancellations and changes in the future, which could result in fluctuations in our revenues. If we are unable to properly monitor, control and manage our inventory and maintain an appropriate level and mix of products to support our customers’ needs, we may incur increased and unexpected costs associated with our inventory. If we manufacture products in anticipation of future demand that does not materialize, or if a customer cancels outstanding orders, we could experience an unanticipated increase in our inventory that we may be unable to sell in a timely manner, if at all. If demand does not meet our expectations, we could incur increased expenses associated with writing off excess or obsolete inventory. We also maintain third-party inventory hubbing arrangements with certain of our customers. Pursuant to these arrangements, we deliver products to a customer or a designated third-party warehouse based upon the customer’s projected needs but do not recognize product revenue unless and until the customer has removed our product from the warehouse to incorporate into its end products. If a customer does not take our products under a hubbing arrangement in accordance with the schedule it originally provided us, our predicted future revenue stream could vary substantially from our forecasts and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, since we own inventory that is physically located in a third party’s warehouse, our ability to effectively manage inventory levels may be impaired, causing our total inventory turns to decrease, which could increase expenses associated with excess and obsolete inventory and negatively impact our cash flow. In addition, while we may not be contractually obligated to accept returned products, we may determine that it is in our best interest to accept returns in order to maintain good relationships with our customers. Product returns would increase our inventory and reduce our revenues. Alternatively, we could end up with too little inventory and we may not be able to satisfy demand, which could have a material adverse effect on our customer relationships. Our risks related to inventory management are exacerbated by our strategy of closely matching inventory levels with product demand, leaving limited margin for error. We have had to in the past and may need to in the future write down inventory for reasons such as obsolescence, excess quantities and declines in market value below our costs. These inventory write-downs can have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Declines in our average sales prices may result in declines in our revenues and gross profit. Our industry is competitive and historically has been characterized by declines in average sales prices. Our average sales prices may decline due to several factors, including competition, overcapacity in the worldwide supply of DRAM and Flash memory components as a result of worldwide economic conditions, increased manufacturing efficiencies, implementation of new manufacturing processes and expansion of manufacturing capacity by component suppliers. In the past, overcapacity has resulted in significant declines in component prices, which in turn has negatively impacted our average sales prices, revenues and gross profit. In addition, since a large percentage of our sales are to a small number of customers that are primarily distributors and large OEMs, these customers have exerted, and we expect they will continue to exert, pressure on us to make price concessions. If not offset by increases in volume of sales or the sales of newly-developed products with higher margins, decreases in average sales prices would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business could be adversely affected by the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry. The semiconductor industry, including the memory markets in which we compete, is highly cyclical and characterized by constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving standards, and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. The industry has experienced significant 20 downturns often connected with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles of both semiconductor companies’ and their customers’ products and declines in general economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average sales prices which have negatively impacted our average sales prices, revenues and earnings. Any future downturns could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further industry consolidation could provide competitive advantages to our competitors. The storage industry has experienced consolidation over the past several years. Consolidation by our competitors may enhance their capacity, abilities and resources and lower their cost structure, causing us to be at a competitive disadvantage. Additionally, continued industry consolidation may lead to uncertainty in areas such as component availability, which could negatively impact our cost structure. The manufacturing of our products is complex and subject to production output yield problems, which could decrease available supply and increase costs. The manufacture of our SSD controllers, Flash-based products and stacked DRAM products is a complex process, and it is often difficult for companies such as ours to achieve, after completed assembly and testing, acceptable production output yields (i.e., the ratio of usable product output to expected output based on given component inputs). Reduced production yields could decrease available supply and increase costs. SSD controller production output yields depend on both our product design and the manufacturing process technology unique to our semiconductor foundry partners. Because low yields may result from either design defects or process difficulties, we may not identify yield problems until well into the production cycle, when an actual product defect exists and can be analyzed and tested. In addition, many of these yield problems are difficult to diagnose and time consuming or expensive to remedy. The execution of our business strategy depends on our ability to retain key personnel, including our executive officers, and to attract qualified personnel. Competition for employees in our industry is intense. We have had and may continue to have difficulty hiring the necessary engineering, sales and marketing and management personnel to support our business strategy. The successful implementation of our business model and business strategy depends on the continued contributions of our senior management and other key research and development, sales and marketing and operations personnel, including Manouch Moshayedi, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors, Mark Moshayedi, our President, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Technical Officer, Secretary and a Director, and Raymond D. Cook, our Chief Financial Officer. The loss of any key employee, the failure of any key employee to perform in his or her current position, or the inability of our officers and key employees to expand, train and manage our employee base would have an adverse effect on the execution of our business strategy. Our efforts to expand our business internationally may not be successful and may expose us to additional risks that may not exist in the United States. We sell our products to customers in foreign countries and seek to increase our level of international business activity through the expansion of our operations into select markets, including Asia and Europe. Such strategy may include opening sales offices in foreign countries, the outsourcing of manufacturing operations, establishing joint ventures with foreign partners, and the establishment of additional manufacturing operations in foreign countries. A failure to successfully and timely integrate these operations into our global infrastructure will have a negative impact on our overall operations, cause us to delay or forego some of the original perceived benefits of operating internationally, such as lower average production and engineering labor costs, better access to global markets, improved supply chain efficiency, reduced lead times, increased manufacturing efficiency through investments in new state-of-the-art equipment and a lower overall long-term effective tax rate. 21 Establishing and running operations in a foreign country or region presents numerous risks, including: • Difficulties and costs of staffing and managing operations in certain foreign countries; • Foreign laws and regulations, which may vary country by country, and may impact how we conduct our business; • Higher costs of doing business in certain foreign countries, including different employment laws; • Difficulty protecting our intellectual property rights from misappropriation or infringement; • Political or economic instability; • Changes in import/export duties; • Necessity of obtaining government approvals; • Trade restrictions; • Work stoppages or other changes in labor conditions; • Difficulties in collecting accounts receivables on a timely basis or at all; • Changes in local tax regulations; • Changes to or untimely lapses in government incentives; • Longer payment cycles and foreign currency fluctuations; and • Seasonal reductions in business activity in some parts of the world, such as Europe. In addition, changes in policies and/or laws of the U.S. or foreign governments resulting in, among other things, higher taxation, currency conversion limitations, restrictions on fund transfers or the expropriation of private enterprises, could reduce the anticipated benefits of our international expansion. Moreover, as a result of our international operations, we are subject to tax in multiple jurisdictions. If any taxing authority (in the U.S. or otherwise) were to successfully challenge our interpretation of the applicable tax laws or our determination of the income and expenses attributable to operations in a specific jurisdiction, we could be required to pay additional taxes, interest and penalties. Furthermore, any actions by countries in which we conduct business to reverse policies that encourage foreign trade or investment could adversely affect our business. If we fail to realize the anticipated revenue growth of our future international operations, our business and operating results could suffer. We expect that our strategy to expand our international operations will require the expenditure of significant resources and the efforts and attention of our management. Unlike some of our competitors, we have limited experience operating our business in foreign countries. Some of our competitors may have a substantial advantage over us in attracting customers in certain foreign countries due to earlier established operations in that country, greater knowledge with respect to cultural differences of customers residing in that country and greater brand recognition and longer-standing relationships with customers in that country. If our international expansion efforts in any foreign country are unsuccessful, we may decide to cease these foreign operations, which would likely harm our reputation and cause us to incur expenses and losses. We face risks associated with doing business in foreign countries, including foreign currency fluctuations and trade barriers, that could lead to a decrease in demand for our products or an increase in the cost of the components used in our products. The volatility of general economic conditions and fluctuations in currency exchange rates affect the prices of our products and the prices of the components used in our products. International sales, which are derived from billings to foreign customers, accounted for 68.0%, 59.1% and 50.2% of our revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In 2011, 43.6% and 12.6% of our revenues were derived from billings to customers in Singapore and the Czech Republic. In 2010, 22.9%, 12.2% and 10.9% of our revenues were derived from billings to customers in Singapore, the Czech Republic and Malaysia, respectively. In 2009, 16.1% and 12.0% of our 22 revenues were derived from billings to customers in the Czech Republic and Malaysia, respectively. For 2011, 2010, and 2009 more than 95% of our international sales were denominated in U.S. dollars, and if the U.S. dollar experiences significant appreciation relative to the currency of a specific country, the prices of our products will rise in such country and our products may be less competitive. In addition, we cannot be sure that our international customers will continue to be willing to place orders denominated in U.S. dollars. If they do not, our revenues and results of operations will be subject to foreign exchange fluctuations, which could harm our business. We do not hedge against foreign currency exchange rate risks. Furthermore, we purchase a majority of the Flash and DRAM components used in our products from foreign suppliers. Although our purchases of Flash and DRAM components are currently denominated in U.S. dollars, a devaluation of the U.S. dollar relative to the currency of a foreign supplier would likely result in an increase in our cost of Flash and DRAM components. Our intellectual property may not be adequately protected, which could harm our competitive position. Our intellectual property is critical to our success. As of December 31, 2011, we owned 37 patents and 60 additional patent applications were pending. Although we protect our intellectual property rights through patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and employee disclosure and invention assignment agreements, it is possible that our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights may not: • Prevent the challenge, invalidation or circumvention of our existing patents; • Result in patents that lead to commercially viable products or provide competitive advantages for our products; • Prevent our competitors from independently developing similar products, duplicating our products or designing around the patents owned by us; • Prevent third-party patents from having an adverse effect on our ability to do business; • Provide adequate protection for our intellectual property rights; • Prevent disputes with third parties regarding ownership of our intellectual property rights; • Prevent disclosure of our trade secrets and know-how to third parties or into the public domain; and • Result in patents from any of our pending applications. In addition, despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights and confidential information, third parties could copy or otherwise obtain and make unauthorized use of our technologies or independently develop similar technologies. Furthermore, if any of our patents are challenged and found to be invalid, our ability to exclude competitors from making, using or selling the same or similar products related to such patents would cease. From time to time, we receive letters from third parties suggesting that some or all of our products may be covered by third party patents. In each instance, our management determines whether the letters have sufficient justification and specificity to require a response. When they believe it is appropriate to do so, our management seeks the advice of counsel on these matters. We have, on at least one occasion, applied for and may in the future apply for patent protection in foreign countries. The laws of foreign countries, however, may not adequately protect our intellectual property rights. Many U.S. companies have encountered substantial infringement problems in foreign countries. Because we sell some of our products overseas, we have exposure to foreign intellectual property risks. Our indemnification obligations for products that infringe the intellectual property rights of others could require us to pay substantial damages. We currently have in effect a number of agreements in which we have agreed to defend, indemnify and hold harmless our customers and suppliers from damages and costs which may arise from the infringement by our products and services of third-party patents, trademarks or other proprietary rights. The scope of such indemnity 23 varies, but may, in some instances, include indemnification for damages and expenses, including attorneys’ fees. We may from time to time be engaged in litigation as a result of such indemnification obligations. Our insurance does not cover intellectual property infringement. The term of these indemnification agreements is generally perpetual any time after execution of the agreement. The maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification agreements is generally unlimited. We may periodically have to respond to claims and litigate these types of indemnification obligations. Any such indemnification claims could require us to pay substantial damages that may result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our indemnification obligations to our customers and suppliers for product defects could require us to pay substantial damages. A number of our product sales and product purchase agreements provide that we will defend, indemnify and hold harmless our customers and suppliers from damages and costs which may arise from product warranty claims or claims for injury or damage resulting from defects in our products. We maintain insurance to protect against certain claims associated with the use of our products, but our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all or any part of the claims asserted against us. A successful claim brought against us that is in excess of, or excluded from, our insurance coverage could substantially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Global economic conditions and the global financial crisis may have an impact on our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict. As a result of the prolonged downturn in global economic activity, spending on information technology has deteriorated significantly in the U.S. and many other countries may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. Uncertainty in the financial and credit markets have caused many of our customers to postpone or cancel purchases. These worldwide economic conditions make it extremely difficult for our customers, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and they could cause our customers to further reduce or slow spending on our products, which would delay and lengthen sales cycles. Furthermore, during challenging economic times our customers may face issues gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which could result in an impairment of their ability to make timely payments to us. If that were to occur, we may experience increased collection times or write-offs, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and cash flow. Similarly, our vendors may also face issues gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which could result in an impairment of their ability to supply us with components that are needed in the manufacture of our products. If that were to occur, we may experience delays in our production and increased costs associated with our qualification of additional new vendors and replacement of their components, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and cash flow. Finally, our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted, which could have an impact on our flexibility to pursue additional expansion opportunities and maintain our desired level of revenue growth in the future. These and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services and on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could cause our investors to lose confidence and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we maintain internal control over financial reporting that meets applicable standards. We may err in the design or operation of our controls, and all internal control systems, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Because there are inherent limitations in all control systems, there can be no absolute assurance that all control issues have been or will be detected. In addition, a failure to maintain such controls could result in misstatements in our financial statements. If we are unable, or are perceived as unable, to produce reliable financial reports due to internal control deficiencies, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information and operating results, which could result in a negative market reaction. 24 Failure to comply with governmental laws and regulations could harm our business. Our business is subject to regulation by various U.S. federal, state, local and foreign governmental authorities and agencies. Such regulation includes employment and labor laws, workplace safety, product safety, environmental laws, consumer protection laws, import/export controls, federal securities laws and tax. As a global company, we are subject to varied and complex laws, regulations and customs domestically and internationally. These laws and regulations relate to a number of aspects of our business, including trade protection, import and export control, data and transaction processing security, records management, gift policies, employment and labor relations laws, workplace safety, product safety, environmental laws, federal securities laws, tax regulations, and other regulatory requirements affecting our foreign operations. The application of these laws and regulations to our business is often unclear and may at times conflict. Compliance with these laws and regulations may involve significant costs or require changes in our business practices that result in reduced revenue and profitability. Non-compliance could also result in fines, damages, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business, and damage to our reputation. We incur additional legal compliance costs associated with our global operations and could become subject to legal penalties in foreign countries if we do not comply with local laws and regulations, which may be substantially different from those in the U.S. In many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it may be common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by U.S. regulations applicable to us, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Although we implement policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain aspects of our business operations, including those based in foreign countries where practices which violate such U.S. laws may be customary, will not take actions in violation of our internal policies. Noncompliance with applicable regulations or requirements could subject us to investigations, sanctions, mandatory product recalls, enforcement actions, disgorgement of profits, fines, damages, civil and criminal penalties, or injunctions. These actions could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If any governmental sanctions or fines are imposed, or if we do not prevail in any possible civil or criminal litigation, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In addition, responding to any action will likely result in a significant diversion of management’s attention and resources and an increase in professional fees. In addition, from time to time, we have received, and expect to continue to receive, complaints from former employees who threaten to bring claims against us alleging that we have violated one or more labor and employment regulations. In certain of these instances, the former employees have brought formal claims against us and we expect that we will encounter similar actions against us in the future. An adverse outcome in any such litigation could require us to pay contractual damages, compensatory damages, punitive damages, attorneys’ fees and costs. Compliance with evolving environmental regulations and standards could harm our business. We may be required to meet and adjust to evolving environmental requirements relating to the material composition of our products. As environmental requirements change, substituting particular components with conforming components to meet new environmental standards may prove to be difficult or costly, and additional redesign efforts could result in production delays. Our operations may be affected by significant changes to existing or future environmental laws and regulations, including those imposed in response to climate change concerns and other actions commonly referred to as “green initiatives.” Although we cannot predict the ultimate impact of any such new laws and regulations, they may result in additional costs or decreased revenue, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities. We operate in different countries throughout the world and are subject to taxation in a variety of jurisdictions. Our future income taxes could be adversely affected if earnings are higher than anticipated in 25 jurisdictions where we have higher statutory tax rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof. For example, recent proposals for changes in U.S. tax laws that may be considered or adopted in the future could subject us to higher taxes or result in changes to tax law provisions that currently provide favorable tax treatment. Further, as an incentive to establish operations in Malaysia, we were provided a tax holiday effective through September 30, 2027. The eventual expiration or an early revocation of our tax holiday in Malaysia, if certain conditions are not met, may result in an increase to our future tax liabilities. We are also subject to regular review and audit by both domestic and foreign tax authorities. Any adverse outcome of such a review or audit could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. The determination of our global provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment and in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Additionally, our calculations of income taxes are based on our interpretations of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we file. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. Two of our largest shareholders are executives and directors of our company and their interests may diverge from other shareholders. Manouch Moshayedi and Mark Moshayedi are brothers who (along with a third brother Mike Moshayedi) founded our company. They have owned a substantial amount of shares since our inception. As of December 31, 2011, Manouch and Mark Moshayedi beneficially owned approximately 17% of our outstanding common stock. As shareholders, Manouch and Mark Moshayedi may have interests that diverge from those of other holders of our common stock. In addition, Manouch and Mark Moshayedi are executive officers and directors. As a result, they have the potential ability to control or influence all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including approval of significant corporate transactions and the decision of whether a change in control will occur. This potential control could affect the price that certain investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Certain provisions in our charter documents and stock option plan could prevent or delay a change in control and, as a result, negatively impact our shareholders. We have taken a number of actions that could have the effect of discouraging a takeover attempt. For example, provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders. These provisions also could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions include: • Limitations on how special meetings of shareholders can be called; • Advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by shareholders at shareholder meetings; • Elimination of cumulative voting in the election of directors; • The right of a majority of directors in office to fill vacancies on the board of directors; and • The ability of our board of directors to issue, without shareholder approval, “blank check” preferred stock to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt. In addition, provisions of our 2000 Stock Incentive Plan and 2010 Incentive Award Plan allow for the automatic vesting of all outstanding equity awards granted under the 2000 Stock Incentive Plan and 2010 26 Incentive Award Plan upon a change in control under certain circumstances. Such provisions may also have the effect of discouraging a third party from acquiring us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 