ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We do not believe there have been any material changes in our risk factors since the filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2010. However, we may update our risk factors in our SEC filings from time to time for clarification purposes or to include additional information, at management's discretion, even when there have been no material changes. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS FLUCTUATES AND OUR BUSINESS MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY WORLDWIDE ECONOMIC AND INDUSTRY CONDITIONS Our business is affected by economic and industry conditions and our revenue is primarily dependent upon semiconductor demand. Semiconductor demand, in turn, is impacted by semiconductor industry cycles, and these cycles can dramatically affect our business. These cycles may be characterized by rapid increases or decreases in product demand, excess or low customer inventories, and rapid changes in prices of IC devices. For example, the semiconductor industry grew significantly during the past two years following a severe economic downturn, and generally, overall demand for our products has followed this same cycle. However, we began to see some softening of demand in the second half of fiscal 2011. Some industry analysts predict this softening may continue through the first half of fiscal 2012. In addition, our business has experienced historical seasonal trends as evidenced by a decrease in our revenue in the second quarter of fiscal 2011 from the revenue recorded in the first quarter of 2011, and an increase in revenue in the third quarter of fiscal 2011. Our limited visibility to future customer orders makes it difficult for us to predict industry trends. If the global economy weakens further and/or the semiconductor industry weakens, whether in general or as a result of specific factors, such as the current European sovereign debt crisis, the March 2011 natural disasters in Japan, or the November 2011 flooding in Thailand, that have had effects on the semiconductor, data storage and information technology industries, we could experience material adverse impacts on our results of operations and financial condition. Adverse global economic conditions may have other negative effects on our Company. For instance, we may experience negative impacts on cash flows due to the inability of our customers to pay their obligations to us or our production process may be harmed if our suppliers cannot fulfill their obligations to us. We may also have to reduce the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets, which could harm our financial position and results of operations. Some additional factors that affect demand for our products include: the types of products that our customers may produce, such as logic devices versus memory devices; the various technology nodes at which those products are manufactured; customers’ specific manufacturing process integration schemes; the short order to delivery time for our products; quarter-to-quarter changes in customer order patterns; market share gains and losses; and pricing changes by us and our competitors. WE HAVE A NARROW PRODUCT RANGE AND OUR PRODUCTS MAY BECOME OBSOLETE, OR TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES MAY REDUCE OR LIMIT INCREASES IN THE CONSUMPTION OF CMP SLURRIES AND PADS Our business is substantially dependent on a single class of products, CMP slurries, which account for the majority of our revenue. Our business in CMP pads is also developing and growing. Our business would suffer if these products became obsolete or if consumption of these products decreased. Our success depends on our ability to keep pace with technological changes and advances in the semiconductor industry and to adapt, improve and customize our products for advanced IC applications in response to evolving customer needs and industry trends. Since its inception, the semiconductor industry has experienced rapid technological changes and advances in the design, manufacture, performance and application of IC devices, and our customers continually pursue lower cost of ownership and higher performance of materials consumed in their manufacturing processes, including CMP slurries and pads, as a means to reduce the costs and increase the yield in their manufacturing facilities. We expect these technological changes and advances, and this drive toward lower costs and higher yields, will continue in the future. Potential technology developments in the semiconductor industry, as well as our customers’ efforts to reduce consumption of CMP consumables and to possibly reuse or recycle these products, could render our products less important to the IC device manufacturing process. 14 index A SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF OUR BUSINESS COMES FROM A LIMITED NUMBER OF LARGE CUSTOMERS AND OUR REVENUE AND PROFITS COULD DECREASE SIGNIFICANTLY IF WE LOST ONE OR MORE OF THESE CUSTOMERS Our CMP consumables customer base is concentrated among a limited number of large customers. The number of semiconductor manufacturers has declined both through mergers and acquisitions as well as through strategic alliances. Industry analysts predict that this trend will continue, which means the semiconductor industry will be comprised of fewer and larger participants if their prediction is correct. One or more of these principal customers could stop buying CMP consumables from us or could substantially reduce the quantity of CMP consumables purchased from us. Our principal customers also hold considerable purchasing power, which can impact the pricing and terms of sale of our products. Any deferral or significant reduction in CMP consumables sold to these principal customers, or a significant number of smaller customers, could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In fiscal 2011, our five largest customers accounted for approximately 47% of our revenue, with Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC) and Samsung accounting for approximately 17% and 10%, respectively, of our revenue. In fiscal year 2010, our five largest customers accounted for approximately 48% of our revenue, with TSMC and United Microelectronics Corporation accounting for approximately 18% and 11%, respectively. Samsung accounted for less than 10% of our revenue in fiscal 2010. OUR BUSINESS COULD BE SERIOUSLY HARMED IF OUR COMPETITORS DEVELOP SUPERIOR SLURRY PRODUCTS, OFFER BETTER PRICING TERMS OR SERVICE, OR OBTAIN CERTAIN INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS Competition from other CMP slurry manufacturers could seriously harm our business and results of operations. Competition from other providers of CMP slurries could continue to increase, and opportunities exist for other companies to emerge as potential competitors by developing their own CMP slurry products. Increased competition has and may continue to impact the prices we are able to charge for our slurry products as well as our overall business. In addition, our competitors could have or obtain intellectual property rights which could restrict our ability to market our existing products and/or to innovate and develop new products. ANY PROBLEM OR DISRUPTION IN OUR SUPPLY CHAIN, INCLUDING SUPPLY OF OUR MOST IMPORTANT RAW MATERIALS, OR IN OUR ABILITY TO MANUFACTURE AND DELIVER OUR PRODUCTS TO OUR CUSTOMERS, COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS We depend on our supply chain to enable us to meet the demands of our customers. Our supply chain includes the raw materials we use to manufacture our products, our production operations, and the means by which we deliver our products to our customers. Our business could be adversely affected by any problem or interruption in our supply of the key raw materials we use in our CMP slurries and pads, including fumed silica, which we use for certain of our slurries, or any problem or interruption that may occur during production or delivery of our products, such as weather-related problems or natural disasters, such as the March 2011 earthquakes and tsunami in Japan. Consistent with our initial assessment in our second fiscal quarter of 2011, these natural disasters have not had a significant impact on the semiconductor industry, or on our business or supply chain, although Japan was the only geographic region in which our business did not grow in fiscal 2011. Yet, it still is unclear what long-term effects these disasters may have on Japan’s economy and on the global economic environment as Japan represents the world’s third largest economy. Our supply chain may also be negatively impacted by unanticipated price increases due to supply restrictions beyond the control of our Company or our raw material suppliers. 15 index For instance, Cabot Corporation continues to be our primary supplier of particular amounts and types of fumed silica. We believe it would be difficult to promptly secure alternative sources of key raw materials, including fumed silica, in the event one of our suppliers becomes unable to supply us with sufficient quantities of raw materials that meet the quality and technical specifications required by us and our customers. In addition, contractual amendments to the existing agreements with, or non-performance by, our suppliers, including any significant financial distress our suppliers may suffer, could adversely affect us. Also, if we change the supplier or type of key raw materials we use to make our CMP slurries or pads, or are required to purchase them from a different manufacturer or manufacturing facility or otherwise modify our products, in certain circumstances our customers might have to requalify our CMP slurries and pads for their manufacturing processes and products. The requalification process could take a significant amount of time and expense to complete and could motivate our customers to consider purchasing products from our competitors, possibly interrupting or reducing our sales of CMP consumables to these customers. WE ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR FOREIGN OPERATIONS We currently have operations and a large customer base outside of the United States. Approximately 86%, 86% and 84% of our revenue was generated by sales to customers outside of the United States for the fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We encounter risks in doing business in certain foreign countries, including, but not limited to, adverse changes in economic and political conditions, fluctuation in exchange rates, compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, as well as difficulty in enforcing business and customer contracts and agreements, including protection of intellectual property rights. We also encounter the risks that we may not be able to repatriate the earnings from certain of our foreign operations, derive the anticipated tax benefits of our foreign operations or recover the investments made in our foreign operations. WE MAY PURSUE ACQUISITIONS OF, INVESTMENTS IN, AND STRATEGIC ALLIANCES WITH OTHER ENTITIES, WHICH COULD DISRUPT OUR OPERATIONS AND HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS IF THEY ARE UNSUCCESSFUL We expect to continue to make investments in technologies, assets and companies, either through acquisitions, investments or alliances, in order to supplement our internal growth and development efforts. Acquisitions and investments, such as our fiscal 2009 acquisition of Epoch Material Co., Ltd., a Taiwan-based company, involve numerous risks, including the following: difficulties and risks in integrating the operations, technologies, products and personnel of acquired companies; diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business; increased risk associated with foreign operations; potential difficulties and risks in entering markets in which we have limited or no direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions; potential difficulties in operating new businesses with different business models; potential difficulties with regulatory or contract compliance in areas in which we have limited experience; initial dependence on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply partners; insufficient revenues to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions; potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies; or inability to effectively cooperate and collaborate with our alliance partners. Further, we may never realize the perceived or anticipated benefits of a business combination, asset acquisition or investments in other entities. Acquisitions by us could have negative effects on our results of operations, in areas such as contingent liabilities, gross profit margins, amortization charges related to intangible assets and other effects of accounting for the purchases of other business entities. Investments in and acquisitions of technology-related companies or assets are inherently risky because these businesses or assets may never develop, and we may incur losses related to these investments. In addition, we may be required to write down the carrying value of these acquisitions or investments to reflect other than temporary declines in their value, which could harm our business and results of operations. 16 index BECAUSE WE HAVE LIMITED EXPERIENCE IN BUSINESS AREAS OUTSIDE OF CMP SLURRIES, EXPANSION OF OUR BUSINESS INTO NEW PRODUCTS AND APPLICATIONS MAY NOT BE SUCCESSFUL An element of our strategy has been to leverage our current customer relationships and technological expertise to expand our CMP business from CMP slurries into other areas, such as CMP polishing pads. Additionally, pursuant to our Engineered Surface Finishes business, we are pursuing other surface modification applications. Expanding our business into new product areas could involve technologies, production processes and business models in which we have limited experience, and we may not be able to develop and produce products or provide services that satisfy customers’ needs or we may be unable to keep pace with technological or other developments. Also, our competitors may have or obtain intellectual property rights that could restrict our ability to market our existing products and/or to innovate and develop new products. BECAUSE WE RELY HEAVILY ON OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY, OUR FAILURE TO ADEQUATELY OBTAIN OR PROTECT IT COULD SERIOUSLY HARM OUR BUSINESS Protection of intellectual property is particularly important in our industry because we develop complex technical formulas for CMP products that are proprietary in nature and differentiate our products from those of our competitors. Our intellectual property is important to our success and ability to compete. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as employee and third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. Due to our international operations, we pursue protection in different jurisdictions, which may provide varying degrees of protection, and we cannot provide assurance that we can obtain adequate protection in each such jurisdiction. Our failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason, including through the patent prosecution process or in the event of litigation related to such intellectual property, such as the current litigation between us and DuPont Air Products NanoMaterials (DA Nano), in which the validity of all of our patents at issue in the matter was upheld as further described above in Part I, Item 1 under the heading “Intellectual Property” and in Part I, Item 3 under the heading “Legal Proceedings,” could seriously harm our business. In addition, the costs of obtaining or protecting our intellectual property could negatively affect our operating results. For example, in fiscal 2010, costs associated with enforcing our intellectual property caused our operating expenses to increase. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO MONETIZE OUR INVESTMENTS IN AUCTION RATE SECURITIES IN THE SHORT TERM AND WE COULD EXPERIENCE A DECLINE IN THEIR MARKET VALUE, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS We owned auction rate securities (ARS) with an estimated fair value of $8.1 million ($8.3 million par value) at September 30, 2011, which were classified as other long-term assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. If current illiquidity in the ARS market does not lessen, if issuers of our ARS are unable to refinance the underlying securities, or are unable to pay debt obligations and related bond insurance fails, or if credit ratings decline or other adverse developments occur in the credit markets, then we may not be able to monetize these securities in the foreseeable future. We may also be required to further adjust the carrying value of these instruments through an impairment charge that may be deemed other-than-temporary which would adversely affect our financial results. OUR INABILITY TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN KEY PERSONNEL COULD CAUSE OUR BUSINESS TO SUFFER If we fail to attract and retain the necessary managerial, technical and customer support personnel, our business and our ability to maintain existing and obtain new customers, develop new products and provide acceptable levels of customer service could suffer. We compete with other industry participants for qualified personnel, particularly those with significant experience in the semiconductor industry. The loss of services of key employees could harm our business and results of operations. 17 index RISKS RELATING TO THE MARKET FOR OUR COMMON STOCK THE MARKET PRICE MAY FLUCTUATE SIGNIFICANTLY AND RAPIDLY The market price of our common stock has fluctuated and could continue to fluctuate significantly as a result of factors such as: economic and stock market conditions generally and specifically as they may impact participants in the semiconductor and related industries; changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts who follow our stock; earnings and other announcements by, and changes in market evaluations of, us or participants in the semiconductor and related industries; changes in business or regulatory conditions affecting us or participants in the semiconductor and related industries; announcements or implementation by us, our competitors, or our customers of technological innovations, new products or different business strategies; and trading volume of our common stock. ANTI-TAKEOVER PROVISIONS UNDER OUR CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION AND BYLAWS MAY DISCOURAGE THIRD PARTIES FROM MAKING AN UNSOLICITED BID FOR OUR COMPANY Our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, and various provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may make it more difficult or expensive to effect a change in control of our Company. For instance, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides for the division of our Board of Directors into three classes as nearly equal in size as possible with staggered three-year terms. Until April 2010, we had a rights plan which expired according to the terms of the plan. We have adopted change in control arrangements covering our executive officers and other key employees. These arrangements provide for a cash severance payment, continued medical benefits and other ancillary payments and benefits upon termination of service of a covered employee’s employment following a change in control, which may make it more expensive to acquire our Company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 18 index 