RISK FACTORS Due to the nature of the Company's business and the present stage of exploration on its mineral resource properties, the following risk factors apply to the Company's operations (see "Item 4. Information on the Company - History and Development of the Company"): TITLE TO PROPERTIES RISK: On November 16, 2006 the Company transferred ownership of its mineral properties to Aquiline Resources Inc. ("Aquiline") under the terms of an Interim Project Development Agreement (the "Interim Agreement") while the appeal of the Supreme Court of British Columbia decision of July 14, 2006 is heard and the Appeal Court's decision is rendered. In the event that the Company is unsuccessful on appeal, the Company will be paid $18,500,000 as consideration for these assets, less legal costs Aquiline would be entitled to in relation to the trial and the appeal. In the event that the legal costs that Aquiline may become entitled to are significant, the recoverability of the costs reflected may be impaired. Such impairment may be material. However, at the current time, the Company is unable to determine with any degree of certainty what the final outcome of the appeal process may be and if the Company will regain its direct ownership of the mineral properties. The Company has no other mineral properties. LIQUIDITY AND CASH FLOW: As at the date of this annual report, the Company has not generated any revenues from operations to fund ongoing operational requirements and cash commitments. The Company has financed its operations principally through the sale of its equity securities. As at February 28, 2007 the Company had working capital of approximately $8,500,000. Management believes the Company has adequate resources to maintain its ongoing operations and will require additional financing for exploration and development in the event it regains operational control over the Navidad Project. See "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects - Liquidity and Capital Resources". EXPLORATION STAGE COMPANY: An investment in a natural resources company involves a high degree of risk. The degree of risk increases substantially where the company's properties are in the exploration stage. ADDITIONAL FINANCING: The Company presently has sufficient financial resources to meet its commitments. The Company at present may not, however, have sufficient funds to conduct exploration and development programs on all these properties and may need to obtain additional financing or find joint venture partners in order to initiate any such programs in the event it regains operational control over the Navidad Project. The Company will continue to rely on successfully completing additional equity financing and/or conducting joint venture arrangements to further exploration on its properties. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in obtaining the required financing or negotiating joint venture agreements. The Company's management may elect to acquire new projects, at which time additional equity financing may be required to fund overhead and maintain its interests in current projects, or may decide to relinquish certain of its properties. These decisions will be based on the results of ongoing exploration programs and the response of equity markets to the projects and business plan. The failure to obtain such financing or complete joint venture arrangements could result in the loss or substantial dilution of the Company's interests (as existing or as proposed to be acquired) in its properties as disclosed herein. The Company does not have any definitive commitment or agreement concerning any investment, strategic alliance or related effort, on any of the Company's material properties. The Company may seek joint venture partners to provide funding for further work on any or all of those other properties. Joint ventures may involve significant risks and the Company may lose any investment it makes in a joint venture. Any investments, strategic alliances or related efforts are accompanied by risks such as: 1. the difficulty of identifying appropriate joint venture partners or opportunities; 2. the time the Company's senior management must spend negotiating agreements and monitoring joint venture activities; 3. the possibility that the Company may not be able to reach agreement on definitive agreements, with potential joint venture partners; 4. potential regulatory issues applicable to the mineral exploration business; 5. the investment of the Company's capital or properties and the loss of control over the return of the Company's capital or assets; 6. the inability of management to capitalize on the growth opportunities presented by joint ventures; and 7. the insolvency of any joint venture partner. - 7 - There are no assurances that the Company would be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered with joint ventures, strategic alliances or related efforts. EXPLORATION RISKS: Mineral exploration is highly speculative in nature, involves many risks and frequently is nonproductive. There can be no assurance that the Company's efforts to identify resources will be successful. Moreover, substantial expenditures are required to establish resources through drilling, to determine metallurgical processes to extract the metal from the ore and to construct mining and processing facilities. During the time required to establish resources, determine suitable metallurgical processes and construct such mining and processing facilities, the economic feasibility of production may change because of fluctuating prices. METAL PRICE RISK: The Company's portfolio of properties has exposure to predominantly silver and lead. The prices of these metals, especially silver, greatly affect the value of the Company and the potential value of its properties and investments. FINANCIAL MARKETS RISK: The Company is dependent on the equity markets as its sole source of operating working capital and the Company's capital resources are largely determined by the strength of the junior resource markets and by the status of the Company's projects in relation to these markets, and its ability to compete for the investor support of its projects. POLITICAL RISK: Exploration is presently carried out in Argentina. This exposes the Company to risks that may not otherwise be experienced if all operations were domestic. Political risks may adversely affect the Company's existing assets and operations. Real and perceived political risk in some countries may also affect the Company's ability to finance exploration programs and attract joint venture partners, and future mine development opportunities. CURRENCY RISK: Business is transacted by the Company in a number of currencies. Fluctuations in exchange rates may have a significant effect on the cash flows of the Company. Future changes in exchange rates could materially affect the Company's results in either a positive or negative direction. ENVIRONMENTAL RISK: The Company seeks to operate within environmental protection standards that meet or exceed existing requirements in the countries in which the Company operates. Present or future laws and regulations, however, may affect the Company's operations. Future environmental costs may increase due to changing requirements or costs associated with exploration and the developing, operating and closing of mines. Programs may also be delayed or prohibited in some areas. Although minimal at this time, site restoration costs are a component of exploration expenses. PROJECT DELAY RISK: The Company's minerals business is subject to the risk of unanticipated delays in permitting its projects. Such delays may be caused by fluctuations in commodity prices, mining risks, difficulty in arranging needed financing, unanticipated permitting requirements or legal obstruction in the permitting process by project opponents. In addition to adding to project capital costs (and possibly operating costs), such delays, if protracted, could result in a write-off of all or a portion of the carrying value of the delayed project. PRICE FLUCTUATIONS AND SHARE PRICE VOLATILITY: In recent years the securities markets in Canada have experienced a high level of price and volume volatility and the market price of securities of many companies, particularly junior mineral exploration companies, like the Company, have experienced wide fluctuations which have not necessarily been related to the operating performance, underlying asset values or prospects of such companies. In particular, the per share price of the Company's common shares on the TSX Venture Exchange (the "TSX-V") fluctuated from a high of $3.96 to a low of $0.49 during the 12-month period ending December 31, 2006. There can be no assurance that continual fluctuations in price will not occur. OPERATING HAZARDS AND RISKS: Mining operations involve many risks, which even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome. Operations in which the Company has a direct or indirect interest will be subject to all the hazards and risks normally incidental to exploration for metals, any of which could result in damage to or destruction of mines and other producing facilities, damage to life and property, environmental damage and possible legal liability for any or all damage. Although the Company maintains liability insurance in an amount which it considers adequate, the nature of these risks is such that liabilities could exceed - 8 - policy limits, in which event the Company could incur significant costs that could have a materially adverse effect upon its financial condition. INSURABLE RISKS AND LIMITATIONS OF INSURANCE: The Company maintains certain insurance, however, such insurance is subject to numerous exclusions and limitations. The Company maintains a Total Office Policy in Canadian dollars on its principal offices. Generally, the Total Office Policy provides All Risk Replacement Cost Coverage on office contents, up to $300,000, with a $500 deductible. In addition, the policy provides Commercial General Liability coverage of up to $5,000,000 for Third Party Bodily Injury or Property Damage, per occurrence and $2,000,000 for Tenants Legal Liability for any one leased premises, with a $500 deductible. The Company also has insurance coverage of up to $5,000,000 for non-owned automobile liability. The Company maintains a Foreign Commercial General Liability policy in U.S. dollars which provides US$5,000,000 coverage for bodily injury or property damage per occurrence and coverage up to US$5,000,000 per offence for personal injury or advertising injury (libel, slander, etc.). The policy has a general aggregate limit for all claims during each consecutive policy period, except for those resulting from product hazards or completed operations hazards, of US$5,000,000. The policy has a US$5,000,000 aggregate limit for each consecutive policy period, for bodily injury or property damage liability arising out of completed operations and products. In addition, the Foreign Commercial General Liability policy provides for coverage of up to US$10,000 in medical expenses, per person, with a US$10,000 limit per accident, and up to US$100,000 for each occurrence of tenants' fire legal liability. The policy does not apply to injury or damages occurring within Canada, the United States (including its territories and possessions), Puerto Rico, any countries or territories against which the United States has an embargo, sanction or ban in effect, territorial waters of any of the foregoing, the Gulf of Mexico, or international waters or airspace when an injury or damage occurs in the course of travel or transportation to any country or place included in the foregoing. The policy also does not cover asbestos related claims or liability for bodily injury or property damages arising out of the discharge, dispersal, release or escape of smoke, vapors, soot, fumes, acids, alkalis, toxic chemicals, liquids or gases, waste materials or other irritants, contaminants or pollutants into or upon land, the atmosphere, or any water-course or body of water. The policy also contains a professional liability exclusion which applies to bodily injury or property damage arising out of defects in maps, plans, designs or specifications prepared, acquired or used by the Company or arising out of any act of negligence, error, mistake or omission in rendering or failing to render professional consulting or engineering services, whether performed by the Company or other for whom the Company is responsible. The Company maintains a Foreign Commercial Automobile Liability Insurance policy on owned, leased, hired and non-owned automobiles with the following liability limitations: o $5,000,000 bodily injury liability for each person. o $5,000,000 bodily injury liability for each occurrence. o $5,000,000 property damage liability for each occurrence. o $10,000 medical expense coverage, per person. o $10,000 medical expense coverage, per accident. The foregoing descriptions of the Company's insurance policies do not purport to be complete and does not cover all of the exclusions to such policies. The Company has an Executive and Organization Liability insurance policy for the benefit of directors and officers. The aggregate limit of liability is $5 million. The policy is renewable on a yearly basis. MANAGEMENT: The Company is dependent on the services of Joseph Grosso, the President and a director of the Company. The loss of Mr. Grosso could have an adverse affect on the Company. Joseph Grosso provides his services to the Company through Oxbow International Marketing Corp. ("Oxbow"). The Company has entered into a consulting agreement with Oxbow. All of the Company's other officers are employed by Grosso Group Management Ltd. ("Grosso Group"). See "Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees - Directors and Senior Management - Conflicts of Interest". The Company does not maintain "key-man" insurance in respect of any of its principals. - 9 - DEPENDENCE UPON OTHERS: The success of the Company's operations will depend upon numerous factors, many of which are beyond the Company's control, including: (i) the ability of the Company to regain its direct ownership of the Navidad Project through the appeal process; (ii) the ability to enter into strategic alliances through a combination of one or more joint ventures, mergers or acquisition transactions; (iii) the ability to discover and produce minerals; (iv) the ability to attract and retain additional key personnel in investor relations, marketing, technical support, and finance; and (v) the ability and the operating resources to develop and maintain the properties held by the Company. These and other factors will require the use of outside suppliers as well as the talents and efforts of the Company. There can be no assurance of success with any or all of these factors on which the Company's operations will depend. CONFLICTS OF INTEREST: Several of the Company's directors are also directors, officers or shareholders of other companies. Such associations may give rise to conflicts of interest from time to time. Such a conflict poses the risk that the Company may enter into a transaction on terms which could place the Company in a worse position than if no conflict existed. The directors of the Company are required by law to act honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interest of the Company and to disclose any interest which they many have in any project or opportunity of the Company. However, each director has a similar obligation to other companies for which such director serves as an officer or director. The Company has no specific internal policy governing conflicts of interest. See "Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees - Directors and Senior Management - Conflicts of Interest". FOREIGN COUNTRIES AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS: The projects in which the Company has an interest are located in Argentina. Mineral exploration and mining activities in Argentina may be affected in varying degrees by political instability and government regulations relating to the mining industry. Any changes in regulations or shifts in political conditions are beyond the control of the Company and may adversely affect its business. The Company does not maintain and does not intend to purchase political risk insurance. Operations may be affected in varying degrees by government regulations with respect to restrictions on production, price controls, export controls, income taxes, expropriations of property, environmental legislation and mine safety. The status of Argentina as a developing country may make it more difficult for the Company to obtain any required exploration financing for its projects. The effect of all of these factors cannot be accurately predicted. Argentina has recently experienced some economic and political instability. Management believes the new democratic elected government is making progress in the domestic economy and it is improving the image of the country internationally. Additionally, management believes the economic crisis of December 2001 has been overcome, and although the country had defaulted on its loans, it has repaid its debt to the International Monetary Fund in December 2005. The Company maintains the majority of its funds in Canada and only forwards sufficient funds to meet current obligations and overhead in Argentina. The Company does not believe that any current currency restrictions which may be imposed in Argentina will have any immediate impact on the Company's exploration activities. IMPACT OF GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS ON THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS: The projects in which the Company has an interest are located in Argentina. ARGENTINA MINING INDUSTRY Mineral companies are subject to various federal and provincial laws and regulations including specific mining and environmental rules. The Company believes it is in material compliance with all applicable legislation. THE RIGHT TO EXPLORE A PROPERTY (A "CATEO") AND THE RIGHT TO EXPLOIT (A "MINA") ARE GRANTED BY ADMINISTRATIVE OR JUDICIAL AUTHORITIES VIA CONCESSIONS. FOREIGN INDIVIDUALS AND CORPORATIONS MAY APPLY FOR AND HOLD CATEOS AND MINAS, AT THE SAME LEVEL AS LOCAL INVESTORS WITHOUT DIFFERENCES OF ANY NATURE. CATEOS AND MINAS ARE FREELY TRANSFERABLE UPON REGISTRATION WITH THE PROVINCIAL MINING REGISTRY WHERE TITLE TO THE CATEO OR MINA WAS FIRST REGISTERED. UPON THE GRANT OF A LEGAL CONCESSION OF A CATEO OR A MINE, PARTIES HAVE THE RIGHT TO EXPLORE THE LAND OR TO OWN THE MINE AND THE RESOURCES EXTRACTED THEREFROM. - 10 - REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT Management believes the present government is committed to opening up the economy and there has been progress in reducing import duties and export taxes. For decades local industry has been protected and the transition to greater international competitiveness will take some time. Importers and exporters must be registered with Argentinean Customs office. Except for a limited list of items requiring the previous approval of the authorities there are no import restrictions. Import of pharmaceuticals, drugs, foodstuffs, defense material and some other items require the approval of the applicable government authority. Import duties are being progressively reduced in accordance with the free enterprise and free-trade policy being implemented by the government in order to achieve greater international competitiveness. To illustrate, duties currently range between zero and 20 percent. Restrictions on exports are not generally imposed, although there are export taxes currently in place including mineral products. POLITICAL ENVIRONMENT AND ECONOMY In recent years Argentina has experienced a number of changes to its government. The current president, Nestor Kirchner, came to power in May 2003. The economic performance of the country has been troubled and uncertain since the late 1990's. Management believes there are positive indications that the economic situation continues to improve. ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS: The Company's operations are subject to environmental regulations promulgated by government agencies from time to time. Environmental legislation provides for restrictions and prohibitions on spills, releases or emissions of various substances produced in association with certain mining industry operations, such as seepage from tailings disposal areas, which would result in environmental pollution. A breach of such legislation may result in the imposition of fines and penalties. At present, the Company does not believe that compliance with environmental legislation and regulations will have a material affect on the Company's operations; however, any changes in environmental legislation or regulations, or in the Company's business, may cause compliance with such legislation and/or regulation to have a material impact on the Company's operations. In addition, certain types of operations require the submission and approval of environmental impact assessments. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner which means stricter standards, and enforcement, fines and penalties for non-compliance are more stringent. Environmental assessments of proposed projects carry a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and directors, officers and employees. The cost of compliance with changes in governmental regulations has a potential to reduce the profitability of operations. The Company intends to ensure that it complies fully with all environmental regulations relating to its operations in Argentina. The provincial government of Chubut Province, Argentina, has enacted certain anti-mining laws banning the use of cyanide in metallic mineral extraction in the Province of Chubut and open-pit mining is subject to, a yet to be defined, zoning process. The provincial legislation is more restrictive than current federal Argentinean mining laws. Certain authorities believe that the provincial legislation may be unconstitutional. However, there can be no assurance that the provincial legislation will be repealed. CURRENCY FLUCTUATIONS: The Company's operations in Argentina and Canada make it subject to foreign currency fluctuations and such fluctuation may adversely affect the Company's financial position and results. Certain of the Company's expenses are denominated in U.S. dollars. As such, the Company's principal foreign exchange exposure is related to the conversion of the Canadian dollar into U.S. dollars. The Canadian dollar varies under market conditions. Continued fluctuation of the Canadian dollar against the U.S. dollar will continue to affect the Company's operations and financial position. The Company's foreign subsidiaries comprise a direct and integral extension of the Company's operations. These subsidiaries are also entirely reliant upon the Company to provide financing in order for them to continue their activities. Consequently, the functional currency of these subsidiaries is considered by management to be the Canadian dollar and accordingly exchange gains and losses are included in net income. Management does not believe the Company is subject to material exchange rate exposure from any fluctuation of the Argentine currency. The Company does not engage in hedging activities. See "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects". NO DIVIDENDS: The Company has not paid out any cash dividends to date and has no plans to do so in the immediate future. - 11 - PENNY STOCK REGULATION: The SEC has adopted rules that regulate broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in "penny stocks". Generally, penny stocks are equity securities with a price of less than US$5.00 (other than securities registered on certain national securities exchanges or quoted on the NASDAQ system). Since the Company's shares are traded for less than US$5.00 per share, the shares are subject to the SEC's penny stock rules. The Company's shares will be subject to the penny stock rules until such time as (1) the issuer's net tangible assets exceed US$5,000,000 during the issuer's first three years of continuous operations or US$2,000,000 after the issuer's first three years of continuous operations; or (2) the issuer has had average revenue of at least US$6,000,000 for three years. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document prescribed by the SEC that provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer must obtain a written acknowledgement from the purchaser that the purchaser has received the disclosure document. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer's account. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from those rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to the transaction. These requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for a stock that becomes subject to the penny stock rules. Such rules and regulations may make it difficult for holders to sell the common stock of the Company, and they may be forced to hold it indefinitely. ENFORCEMENT OF LEGAL PROCESS: It may be difficult to bring and enforce suits against the Company. The Company is incorporated in British Columbia, Canada. Only one of the Company's directors is a resident of the United States and all, or a substantial portion, of the other directors' assets are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for U.S. holders of the Company's common shares to effect service of process on these persons within the United States or to enforce judgments obtained in the U.S. based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against the Company or their officers and directors. In addition, a shareholder should not assume that the courts of Canada (i) would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against the Company or their officers or directors predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws or other laws of the United States, or (ii) would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against the Company or their officers or directors predicated upon the U.S. federal securities laws or other laws of the United States. However, U.S. laws would generally be enforced by a Canadian court provided that those laws are not contrary to Canadian public policy, are not foreign penal laws or laws that deal with taxation or the taking of property by a foreign government and provided that they are in compliance with applicable Canadian legislation regarding the limitation of actions. Also, a judgment obtained in a U.S. court would generally be recognized by a Canadian court except, for example: 1. where the U.S. court where the judgment was rendered had no jurisdiction according to applicable Canadian law; 2. the judgment was subject to ordinary remedy (appeal, judicial review and any other judicial proceeding which renders the judgment not final, conclusive or enforceable under the laws of the applicable state) or not final, conclusive or enforceable under the laws of the applicable state; 3. the judgment was obtained by fraud or in any manner contrary to natural justice or rendered in contravention of fundamental principles of procedure; 4. a dispute between the same parties, based on the same subject matter has given rise to a judgment rendered in a Canadian court or has been decided in a third country and the judgment meets the necessary conditions for recognition in a Canadian court; 5. the outcome of the judgment of the U.S. court was inconsistent with Canadian public policy; 6. the judgment enforces obligations arising from foreign penal laws or laws that deal with taxation or the taking of property by a foreign government; or 7. there has not been compliance with applicable Canadian law dealing with the limitation of actions. - 12 - 