Item 1A. Risk Factors We have identified risk factors described below, which should be viewed in conjunction with the other information contained in this document and information incorporated by reference, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. If any of the following risks or other risks which have not been identified or which we may believe are immaterial or unlikely, actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. As noted previously, this report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including statements about our future plans, objectives, intentions and expectations. Many factors, including those described below, could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in forward-looking statements. Risks relating to our industry and operations The banking crisis that began in 2008 in the United States and globally has adversely affected our industry, including our business, and may continue to have an adverse effect on our business in the future. Dramatic declines in the housing market which began in 2008, and increases in unemployment and under-employment, negatively impacted the credit performance of real estate related loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. The crisis caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to reduce or eliminate dividends, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. This economic turmoil and tightening of credit led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and the lack of confidence in the financial markets adversely affected the banking industry, as well as financial condition and operating results. Although economic conditions have been slowly improving, future market developments could affect consumer confidence levels and cause adverse changes in loan payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and the provision for credit losses. Changes in the financial services industry and the effects of the Dodd-Frank Act, Basel III and other regulatory responses to the credit crisis also could negatively affect us by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding and other transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. Defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and losses of depositor, creditor and counterparty confidence and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. We could experience increases in deposits and assets as a result of other banks’ difficulties or failure, which would increase the capital we need to support our growth. 15 Table of Contents Recent Legislative and Regulatory Initiatives Could Affect Our Operations The Dodd-Frank Act has resulted in sweeping changes in the regulation of financial institutions aimed at strengthening the sound operation of the financial services sector. The Dodd-Frank Act’s provisions that have received the most public attention have generally been those applying to or more likely to affect larger institutions. However, the Act contains numerous other provisions that will affect all banks and bank holding companies, and will fundamentally change the system of oversight. Some of these provisions may have the consequence of increasing our expenses, decreasing our revenues, and changing the activities in which we choose to engage. The environment in which banking organizations will operate, including legislative and regulatory changes affecting capital, liquidity, supervision, permissible activities, corporate governance and compensation, changes in fiscal policy and steps to eliminate government support for banking organizations, may have long-term effects on the business model and profitability of banking organizations that cannot now be foreseen. The specific impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our current activities or new financial activities that we may consider in the future, our financial performance, and the markets in which we operate, will depend on the manner in which the relevant agencies develop and implement the required rules and the reaction of market participants to these regulatory developments. Our loan portfolio includes commercial and commercial real estate loans that may have higher risks. Our commercial and commercial real estate loans at December 31, 2013 and 2012 were $672.0 million and $604.7 million, respectively, or 54% and 53% of total loans, excluding loans covered by FDIC loss share agreements. Commercial and commercial real estate loans generally carry larger loan balances and can involve a greater degree of financial and credit risk than other loans. As a result, banking regulators continue to give greater scrutiny to lenders with a high concentration of commercial real estate loans in their portfolios, and such lenders are expected to implement stricter underwriting, internal controls, risk management policies and portfolio stress testing, as well as higher capital levels and loss allowances. The increased financial and credit risk associated with these types of loans are a result of several factors, including the concentration of principal in a limited number of loans and borrowers, the size of loan balances, the effects of general economic conditions on income-producing properties and the increased difficulty of evaluating and monitoring these types of loans. The federal bank regulatory agencies have released guidance on “Concentrations in Commercial Real Estate Lending” (the “Guidance”). The Guidance defines commercial real estate loans as exposures secured by raw land, land development and construction (including 1-4 family residential construction), multi-family property, and non-farm nonresidential property where the primary or a significant source of repayment is derived from rental income associated with the property (that is, loans for which 50% or more of the source of repayment comes from third party, non-affiliated, rental income) or the proceeds of the sale, refinancing, or permanent financing of the property. The Guidance requires that appropriate processes be in place to identify, monitor and control risks associated with real estate lending concentrations. This could include enhanced strategic planning, underwriting policies, risk management, internal controls, portfolio stress testing and risk exposure limits as well as appropriately designed compensation and incentive programs. Higher allowances for loan losses and capital levels may also be required. The Guidance is triggered when commercial real estate loan concentrations exceed either: total reported loans for construction, land development, and other land of 100% or more of a bank’s total capital (as of December 31, 2013, our consolidated ratio was 17%); or Total reported loans secured by multifamily and nonfarm nonresidential properties and loans for construction, land development, and other land of 300% or more of a bank’s total capital (as of December 31, 2013, our consolidated ratio was 118%). The Guidance applies to the lending activities of our subsidiary bank. Regulators have the right to request banks to maintain elevated levels of capital or liquidity due to commercial real estate loan concentrations, and could do so, especially if there is a further downturn in our local real estate markets. 16 Table of Contents In addition, when underwriting a commercial or industrial loan, we may take a security interest in commercial real estate, and, in some instances upon a default by the borrower, we may foreclose on and take title to the property, which may lead to potential financial risks for us under applicable environmental laws. If hazardous substances were discovered on any of these properties, we may be liable to governmental agencies or third parties for the costs of remediation of the hazard, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Many environmental laws can impose liability regardless of whether the Company knew of, or were responsible for, the contamination. Furthermore, the repayment of loans secured by commercial real estate is typically dependent upon the successful operation of the related real estate or commercial project. If the cash flows from the project are reduced, a borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. This cash flow shortage may result in the failure to make loan payments. In such cases, we may be compelled to modify the terms of the loan. In addition, the nature of these loans is such that they are generally less predictable and more difficult to evaluate and monitor. As a result, repayment of these loans may, to a greater extent than residential loans, be subject to adverse conditions in the real estate market or economy. Our business is subject to the success of the local economies where we operate. Our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in our primary and secondary markets. During the recent economic downturn, the rate of growth of each of these four factors has decreased substantially and in some cases has turned negative. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally continue to remain challenging, our business may be adversely affected. Our specific market areas have experienced decreased growth, which has affected the ability of our customers to repay their loans to us and has generally affected our financial condition and results of operations. We are less able than a larger institution to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate, substantially all of which is located in Florida, and events that negatively impact the real estate market could hurt our resultant business. Substantially all of our loans are concentrated in Florida and subject to the volatility of the state’s economy and real estate market. With our loans concentrated in Florida, the decline in local economic conditions has adversely affected the values of our real estate collateral and will likely continue to do so for the foreseeable future. Consequently, a continued decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are geographically diverse. In addition to relying on the financial strength and cash flow characteristics of the borrower in each case, we often secure loans with real estate collateral. At December 31, 2013, approximately 87% of our loans have real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower but may deteriorate in value during the time credit is extended. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. An inadequate allowance for loan losses would reduce our earnings. The risk of credit losses on loans varies with, among other things, general economic conditions, the type of loan being made, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the value and marketability of the collateral for the loan. Management maintains an allowance for loan losses based upon, among other things, historical experience, an evaluation of economic conditions and regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality. Based upon such factors, management makes various assumptions and judgments about the ultimate collectability of the loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses based upon a percentage of the outstanding balances and for specific loans when their ultimate collectability is considered 17 Table of Contents questionable. If management’s assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect and the allowance for loan losses is inadequate to absorb losses, or if bank regulatory authorities require us to increase the allowance for loan losses as a part of their examination process, our earnings and capital could be significantly and adversely affected. A lack of liquidity could affect our operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our funding sources include federal funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase agreements, non-core deposits, and short- and long-term debt. There are other sources of liquidity available to us should they be needed, including our ability to acquire additional non-core deposits, the issuance and sale of debt securities, and the issuance and sale of preferred or common securities in public or private transactions. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance or capitalize our activities or on terms that are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Our ability to borrow could be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as further disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. We are required to maintain capital to meet regulatory requirements, and if we fail to maintain sufficient capital, whether due to losses, an inability to raise additional capital or otherwise, our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, as well as our ability to maintain regulatory compliance, would be adversely affected. Our bank holding company and our subsidiary bank must meet regulatory capital requirements and maintain sufficient liquidity. Banking organizations experiencing growth, especially those making acquisitions are expected to hold additional capital, above regulatory minimums. From time to time, the regulators implement changes to these regulatory capital adequacy guidelines, such as through the Dodd-Frank Act and the Basel III initiatives described above. It is anticipated that when fully implemented by the banking agencies and fully phased-in, these standards will result in higher and more stringent capital requirements for us and our banking subsidiary. In particular, the Basel III proposals will require us to maintain an increased minimum ratio of Tier 1 common equity to risk weighed assets. Actions (if necessary) to increase capital, may adversely affect us. Our ability to raise additional capital, when and if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, including investor perceptions regarding the banking industry and market condition, and governmental activities, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial condition and performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we fail to meet these capital and other regulatory requirements, our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Our failure to remain “well capitalized” for bank regulatory purposes could affect customer confidence, our ability to grow, our costs of funds and FDIC insurance costs, our ability to pay dividends on common stock and make distributions on our trust preferred securities, our ability to make acquisitions, and our business, results of operations and financial condition. Under FDIC rules, if our subsidiary bank ceases to be a “well capitalized” institution for bank regulatory purposes, the interest rates that it pays and its ability to accept brokered deposits may be restricted. Although we had no wholesale brokered deposits as of December 31, 2013, we had approximately $0.3 million of in-market CDARs deposits, which are considered brokered deposits for regulatory purposes. Our business strategy includes continued growth, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively. We intend to continue pursuing a growth strategy for our business. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in significant growth stages of development. Particularly in light of prevailing economic conditions, we cannot assure you we will be able to 18 Table of Contents expand our market presence in our existing markets or successfully enter new markets or that any such expansion will not adversely affect our results of operations. Failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, future prospects, financial condition or results of operations, and could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategy. Also, if our growth occurs more slowly than anticipated or declines, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. Our ability to successfully grow will depend on a variety of factors including the continued availability of desirable business opportunities, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in our market areas, our ability to continue to implement and improve our operational, credit, financial, management and other risks controls and processes and our reporting systems and procedures in order to manage a growing number of client relationships, and our ability to integrate our acquisitions and develop consistent policies throughout our various businesses. While we believe we have the management resources and internal systems in place to successfully manage our future growth, there can be no assurance growth opportunities will be available or growth will be successfully managed. In addition, if we are unable to manage future expansion in our operations, we may experience compliance and operational problems, have to slow the pace of growth, or have to incur additional expenditures beyond current projections to support such growth, any of which could adversely affect our business. We may face risks with respect to future expansion. We may acquire other financial institutions through FDIC assisted transactions or otherwise or parts of those institutions in the future and we may engage in additional de novo branch expansion. We may also consider and enter into new lines of business or offer new products or services. We also may receive future inquiries and have discussions with potential acquirors of us. Acquisitions and mergers involve a number of risks, including: the time and costs associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and merger partners; inaccurate estimates and judgments regarding credit, operations, management and market risks of the target institution; the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring experienced local management and opening new offices, and the time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion; our ability to receive regulatory approvals on terms that are acceptable to us; our ability to finance an acquisition and possible dilution to our existing shareholders; the diversion of our management’s attention to the negotiation of a transaction, and the integration of the operations and personnel of the combining businesses; entry into new markets where we lack experience; the strain of growth on our infrastructure, staff, internal controls and management, which may require additional personnel, time and expenditures; exposure to potential asset quality issues with acquired institutions; the introduction of new products and services into our business; the possibility of unknown or contingent liabilities; the incurrence and possible impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and possible adverse short-term effects on our results of operations; and the risk of loss of key employees and customers. We may incur substantial costs to expand, and we can give no assurance such expansion will result in the levels of profits we seek. There can be no assurance that integration efforts for any future mergers or acquisitions will be successful. Also, we may issue equity securities, including common stock and securities convertible into shares of our common stock, in connection with future acquisitions, which could cause ownership and economic 19 Table of Contents dilution to our current shareholders and to investors purchasing common stock in this offering. There is no assurance that, following any future mergers or acquisitions, our integration efforts will be successful or our company, after giving effect to the acquisition, will achieve profits comparable to or better than our historical experience. The FDIC-assisted transactions we have engaged in or may engage in could present additional risks to our business. We have closed six FDIC-assisted transactions and continue to seek opportunities to continue to acquire the assets and liabilities of other failed banks in FDIC-assisted transactions. Current and future FDIC-assisted transactions present the risks of acquisitions, generally, as well as some risks specific to these transactions. These FDIC-assisted transactions typically provide for FDIC assistance, including potential loss-sharing, to an acquirer to mitigate the credit risks of acquired loans and securities, which, may include loss-sharing. FDIC-assisted transactions have many of the same risks we could face in acquiring another open bank without FDIC assistance, including risks associated with competitive bidding and pricing of such transactions, the risk of loss of deposits and, liquidity through runoff or customer attrition, and failure to realize the anticipated acquisition benefits in the amounts and within the timeframes we expect. In addition, because these acquisitions provide for limited diligence and negotiation of terms, these transactions may pose risks not present in open bank transactions. Loss sharing with the FDIC reduces the credit risks of, and capital required for, FDIC-assisted transactions, but requires additional resources and time to service acquired problem loans, costs related to integration of personnel and operating systems, and the establishment of processes and internal controls to service acquired assets in accordance with FDIC standards. We are subject to audit by the FDIC at its discretion to insure we are in compliance with the terms of our FDIC agreements. We may experience difficulties with complying with the requirements of the loss sharing agreements, the terms of which are extensive and failure to comply with any of the terms could result in a specific asset or group of assets losing their loss sharing coverage. The FDIC also has the right to refuse or delay payment partially or in full for such loan losses if we fail to comply with the terms of the loss sharing agreements, which are extensive. Our loss sharing agreements also impose limitations on how we manage loans covered by loss sharing. If we are unable to manage these risks, FDIC-assisted acquisitions could have material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Attractive acquisition opportunities may not be available to us in the future. While we seek continued organic growth, as our earnings and capital position improve, we may consider the acquisition of other businesses, including, as discussed above, failed depository institutions offered for sale in FDIC-assisted transactions. The FDIC determines the timing and terms of the sale of failed institutions, and selects the winning bidder based on the “least cost” to the FDIC. The failed banks offered for sale may or may not meet our business objectives. We expect that other banking and financial companies, many of which have significantly greater resources, will compete with us to acquire financial services businesses. This competition could increase prices for potential acquisitions, including the premiums on deposits and the prices paid for assets in FDIC-assisted transactions. This could reduce our potential returns, and reduce the attractiveness of these opportunities and increase their credit and other risks. Also, acquisitions are subject to various regulatory approvals. If we fail to receive the appropriate regulatory approvals, we will not be able to consummate an acquisition that we believe is in our best interests. Among other things, our regulators consider our capital, liquidity, profitability, regulatory compliance and levels of goodwill and intangibles when considering acquisition and expansion proposals. Any acquisition could be dilutive to our earnings and shareholders’ equity per share of our common stock. Our recent results may not be indicative of our future results. We may not be able to sustain our historical rate of growth or may not even be able to grow our business at all. In addition, our recent growth may distort some of our historical financial ratios and statistics. Various factors, such as economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations and competition, may also impede or prohibit our ability to expand our market presence. If we experience a significant decrease in our historical rate of growth, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected due to a high percentage of our operating costs being fixed expenses. 20 Table of Contents Our continued pace of growth may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, there is no assurance as to our ability to raise additional capital if needed on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. Our asset and liability structures are monetary in nature and are affected by a variety of factors, including changes in interest rates, which can impact the value of our assets. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earnings assets, such as loans and investment securities, and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed funds. Because different types of assets and liabilities may react differently and at different times to market interest rate changes, changes in interest rates can increase or decrease net interest income. Interest rates are sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, competition and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the policies of the Federal Reserve. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest our Banks receive on loans and investment securities and the amount of interest they pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) the Bank’s ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, including the available for sale securities portfolio, and (iii) the average duration of our interest-earning assets. Changes in monetary policy could also expose us to the risk that interest-earning assets may be more responsive to changes in interest rates than interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa (repricing risk), the risk that the individual interest rates or rates indices underlying various interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities may not change in the same degree over a given time period (basis risk), and the risk of changing interest rate relationships across the spectrum of interest-earning asset and interest-bearing liability maturities (yield curve risk), including a prolonged flat or inverted yield curve environment. Any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Higher FDIC deposit insurance premiums and assessments could adversely affect our financial condition. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC-insured depository institutions, such as our subsidiary bank, up to applicable limits. The amount of a particular institution’s deposit insurance assessment is based on that institution’s risk classification under an FDIC risk-based assessment system. An institution’s risk classification is assigned based on its capital levels and the level of supervisory concern the institution poses to its regulators. Market developments have significantly depleted the deposit insurance fund of the FDIC (which is referred to as the “DIF”) and reduced the ratio of reserves to insure deposits. As a result of recent economic conditions and the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC has increased the deposit insurance assessment rates and thus raised deposit premiums for insured depository institutions. If these increases are insufficient for the DIF to meet its funding requirements, there may need to be further special assessments or increases in deposit insurance premiums. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures, we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased levels. Any future additional assessments, increases or required prepayments in FDIC insurance premiums may materially adversely affect results of operations, including by reducing our profitability or limiting our ability to pursue business opportunities. 21 Table of Contents Past levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have experienced volatility and disruption the past several years. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial condition or performance. If these periodic market disruptions and volatility continue or worsen, we may experience adverse effects, which may be material, on our ability to maintain or access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our cost of funds may increase as a result of general economic conditions, FDIC insurance assessments, interest rates and competitive pressures. Our cost of funds may increase as a result of general economic conditions, FDIC insurance assessments, interest rates and competitive pressures. We have traditionally obtained funds principally through local deposits and we have a base of lower cost transaction deposits. Generally, we believe local deposits are a less expensive and more stable source of funds than other borrowings because interest rates paid for local deposits are typically lower than interest rates charged for borrowings from other institutional lenders and reflect a mix of transaction and time deposits, whereas brokered deposits typically are higher cost time deposits. Our costs of funds and our profitability and liquidity are likely to be adversely affected, if and to the extent we have to rely upon higher cost borrowings from other institutional lenders or brokers to fund loan demand or liquidity needs, and changes in our deposit mix and growth could adversely affect our profitability and the ability to expand our loan portfolio. Competition from financial institutions and other financial service providers may adversely affect our profitability. The banking business is highly competitive and we experience competition in our markets from many other financial institutions. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds, and other mutual funds, as well as other super-regional, national and international financial institutions that operate offices in our primary market areas and elsewhere. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, we have to attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Many of our competitors are well-established, larger financial institutions. While we believe we can and do successfully compete with these other financial institutions in our primary markets, we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size, lack of geographic diversification and inability to spread our marketing costs across a broader market. Although we compete by concentrating our marketing efforts in our primary markets with local advertisements, personal contacts, and greater flexibility and responsiveness in working with local customers, we can give no assurance this strategy will be successful. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies, including the Federal Reserve, the OCC, the FDIC, FINRA, and the SEC. These regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors, not shareholders. Our compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. We are also subject to capitalization guidelines established by our regulators, which require us to maintain adequate capital to support our growth. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. 22 Table of Contents We are dependent upon the services of our management team. Our future success and profitability are substantially dependent upon the management and banking abilities of our senior executives. Although we currently have employment agreements in place with our senior management team, we cannot guarantee you that our senior executives will remain with us. Changes in key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We believe that our future results will also depend in part upon our attracting and retaining highly skilled and qualified management and sales and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in retaining such personnel. Technological changes affect our business, and we may have fewer resources than many competitors to invest in technological improvements. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to serving clients better, the effective use of technology may increase efficiency and may enable financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to use technology to provide products and services that provide convenience to customers and to create additional efficiencies in operations. We may need to make significant additional capital investments in technology in the future, and we may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services. Many competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. Hurricanes or other adverse weather events would negatively affect our local economies or disrupt our operations, which would have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Our market areas in Florida are susceptible to hurricanes and tropical storms and related flooding and wind damage. Such weather events can disrupt operations, result in damage to properties and negatively affect the local economies in the markets where they operate. We cannot predict whether or to what extent damage that may be caused by future hurricanes will affect our operations or the economies in our current or future market areas, but such weather events could result in a decline in loan originations, a decline in the value or destruction of properties securing our loans and an increase in delinquencies, foreclosures or loan losses. Our business or results of operations may be adversely affected by these and other negative effects of future hurricanes or tropical storms, including flooding and wind damage. Many of our customers have incurred significantly higher property and casualty insurance premiums on their properties located in our markets, which may adversely affect real estate sales and values in those markets. Risks Relating to our Common Stock We have various provisions in our articles of incorporation that could impede a takeover of CenterState. Our articles of incorporation contain provisions providing for the ability to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval. Although these provisions were not adopted for the express purpose of preventing or impeding the takeover of CenterState without the approval of our board of directors, such provisions may have that effect. Such provisions may prevent our shareholders from taking part in a transaction in which our shareholders could realize a premium over the current price of our common stock. Future capital needs could result in dilution of shareholder investment. Our board of directors may determine from time to time there is a need to obtain additional capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other securities. These issuances would dilute the ownership interest of our shareholders and may dilute the per share book value of our common stock. New investors also may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our shareholders which may adversely impact our shareholders. 23 Table of Contents The trading volume in our common stock and the sale of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could depress the price of our common stock We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of our common stock in the market, or availability of shares of our common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market price of our common stock. We therefore can give no assurance that sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the market, or the potential for large amounts of sales in the market, would not cause the price of our common stock to decline or impair our ability to raise capital through sales of our common stock. Our ability to pay dividends is limited and we may be unable to pay future dividends During the last 19 fiscal quarters, we paid cash dividends of $0.01 per common share. Our ability to pay dividends is limited by regulatory restrictions and the need to maintain sufficient consolidated capital. The ability of our subsidiary bank to pay dividends to us is limited by our obligations to maintain sufficient capital and by other general restrictions on our dividends that are applicable to national banks that are regulated by the OCC. If we do not satisfy these regulatory requirements, we will be unable to pay dividends on our common stock. Holders of our junior subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of our common stockholders We have helped support our continued growth through the issuance of, and the acquisition of, through prior mergers, trust preferred securities from special purpose trusts and accompanying junior subordinated debentures. At December 31, 2013, we had outstanding trust preferred securities and accompanying junior subordinated debentures totaling $17.5 million. In addition, we assumed in the Gulfstream merger $10.0 million of trust preferred securities and accompanying junior subordinated debentures issued by Gulfstream. Payments of the principal and interest on these debt instruments are conditionally guaranteed by us. Further, the accompanying junior subordinated debentures we issued to the special purpose trusts are senior to our shares of common stock. As a result, we must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures before any dividends can be paid on our common stock and, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the junior subordinated debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made on our common stock. We have the right to defer distributions on our junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid on our common stock. Our shareholders include five funds owning approximately 27% of our common stock and they may exercise significant influence over us and their interests may be different from our other shareholders. Our shareholders include five funds that collectively own approximately 27% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. While the federal banking laws require prior bank regulatory approval if shareholders owning in excess of 9.9% of a bank holding company’s outstanding voting shares desire to act in concert, nonetheless the five funds could vote the same way on matters submitted to our shareholders without being deemed to be acting in concert and, if so, could exercise significant influence over us and actions taken by our shareholders. Interests of institutional funds may be different from our other shareholders. Accordingly, given their collective ownership, the funds could have significant influence over whether or not a proposal submitted to our shareholders receives required shareholder approval. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 