Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, you should consider the following risk factors before investing in our securities. We do not have a history of profitable operations and our cash resources are limited. Our year ended October 31, 2003 was the first and only full year we were profitable in our operating history. Our profitability for the year ended October 31, 2003 resulted primarily from our SCOsource business. For the years ended October 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, we incurred net losses of $6,826,000, $16,598,000 and $10,726,000, respectively. As of October 31, 2007, our accumulated deficit was $258,366,000. If our revenue from the sale of our UNIX products and services continues to decline, or if we continue to devote significant cash resources to the SCO Litigation, we will need to further reduce operating expenses to generate positive cash flows. During October 2006, we implemented a reduction in force and decreased our ongoing operating expenses in an effort to decrease our total costs. We may not be able to further reduce operating expenses without damaging our ability to support our existing UNIX business. Additionally, we may not be able to achieve profitability through additional cost-cutting actions. 11 Table of Contents As of October 31, 2007, we had a total of $5,554,000 in cash and cash equivalents and an additional $3,099,000 of restricted cash of which $1,833,000 to be used to pursue the SCO Litigation. Since October 31, 2004, we have spent a total of $13,167,000 for expert, consulting and other costs and fees as agreed to in the Engagement Agreement with our legal counsel in the SCO Litigation. Our limited cash resources may not be sufficient to fund continuing losses from operations and the expenses of the SCO Litigation. A long period of operating under Chapter 11 may harm our business. A long period of operating under Chapter 11 could adversely affect our business and operations. So long as the Chapter 11 cases continue, our senior management will be required to spend a significant amount of time and effort dealing with the bankruptcy reorganization instead of focusing exclusively on business operations. A prolonged period of operating under Chapter 11 may also make it more difficult to attract and retain management and other key personnel necessary to the success and growth of our business. In addition, the longer the Chapter 11 cases continue, the more likely it is that our customers and suppliers will lose confidence in our ability to successfully reorganize our businesses and seek to establish alternative commercial relationships. Furthermore, so long as the Chapter 11 cases continue, we will be required to incur substantial costs for professional fees and other expenses associated with the administration of the cases. A prolonged continuation of the Chapter 11 cases may also require us to seek financing. If we require financing during the Chapter 11 cases and we are unable to obtain the financing on favorable terms or at all, our chances of successfully reorganizing our businesses may be seriously jeopardized. We may not be able to obtain confirmation of our Chapter 11 plan. In order to successfully emerge from Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection as a viable entity, we believe that we must develop, and obtain requisite court and creditor approval of a viable Chapter 11 plan of reorganization (the “Plan”). This process requires us to meet certain statutory requirements with respect to adequacy of disclosure with respect to the Plan, soliciting and obtaining creditor acceptances of the Plan, and fulfilling other statutory conditions for confirmation. We may not receive the requisite acceptances to confirm the Plan. Even if the requisite acceptances of the Plan are received, the Bankruptcy Court may not confirm the Plan. If our Plan is not confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court, it is unclear whether we would be able to reorganize our businesses and what, if anything, holders of claims against us would ultimately receive with respect to their claims. If an alternative reorganization could not be agreed upon, it is possible that we would have to liquidate our assets, in which case it is likely that holders of claims would receive substantially less favorable treatment than they would receive if we were to emerge as a viable, reorganized entity. A plan of reorganization may result in holders of our common stock receiving no distribution on account of their interests and cancellation of their common stock. Under the priority scheme established by the Bankruptcy Code, unless creditors agree otherwise, post-petition liabilities and prepetition liabilities must be satisfied in full before stockholders are entitled to receive any distribution or retain any property under a plan of reorganization. The ultimate recovery to creditors and/or stockholders, if any, will not be determined until confirmation of a plan or plans of reorganization. No assurance can be given as to what values, if any, will be ascribed in the Chapter 11 cases to each of these constituencies or what types or amounts of distributions, if any, they would receive. A plan of reorganization could result in holders of our common stock receiving no distribution on account of their 12 Table of Contents interests and cancellation of their existing stock. If certain requirements of the Bankruptcy Code are met, a plan of reorganization can be confirmed notwithstanding its rejection by our equity security holders and notwithstanding the fact that such equity security holders do not receive or retain any property on account of their equity interests under the Plan. Therefore, an investment in our common stock is highly speculative. Operating under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. Under the Bankruptcy Code, all debtors must obtain Bankruptcy Court approval to, among other things: • sell assets outside the ordinary course of business; • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and • obtain financing secured by the Company’s assets. In addition, if a trustee is appointed to operate the Debtors in Chapter 11, the trustee would assume control of our assets, including the SCO Litigation. We have suffered a significant setback in our lawsuit with Novell that has significantly limited our claims and raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern and we may not prevail in our lawsuits with IBM, Novell and others. On August 10, 2007, the federal judge overseeing our lawsuit with Novell ruled in favor of Novell on several of the summary judgment motions that were before the Court. The effect of these rulings was to significantly reduce or to eliminate certain of our claims in both the Novell and IBM cases, and possibly others. The Court ruled that Novell was the owner of the UNIX and UnixWare copyrights that existed at the time of the 1995 Asset Purchase Agreement and that Novell retained broad rights to waive our contract claims against IBM. The Court ruled that we own the copyrights to post 1995 derivatives and that we have certain other ownership rights in the UNIX technology. We were directed to accept Novell’s waiver of our UNIX contract claims against IBM. In addition, the Court determined that certain SCOsource licensing agreements included older SVRx licenses and that we were possibly required to remit some portion of the proceeds to Novell. Over our objection, a bench trial was set to begin on September 17, 2007 and the federal judge was to determine what portion, if any, of the proceeds of the SCOsource agreements is attributable to such SVRx licenses and should be remitted to Novell. The range of the payment to Novell is from a de minimis amount to in excess of $30,000,000, the latter amount being the amount claimed by Novell, plus interest. Novell has sought to impose a constructive trust on our current funds traceable to those sources, which could result in a freeze of our assets, and the Court indicated that it would address that issue as well. It is our desire and intent to appeal the adverse August 10, 2007 summary judgement ruling as soon as that opportunity is available to us. However, we must go through further legal proceedings before we can take such an appeal. In the event that any substantial amount of our assets are frozen or if our assets or resources are further depleted, we may not be able to appeal the adverse August 10, 2007 ruling. The trial of these issues, however, was stayed as a result of the Company’s filing a voluntary petition for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code on September 14, 2007. Our management and Board of Directors determined that filing for relief under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code was appropriate and necessary. As a result of both the Court’s August 10, 2007 ruling and our entering into Chapter 11, among other matters, there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern including continuing the SCO litigation or appealing the adverse ruling of August 10, 2007. Absent a significant cash payment to Novell for this matter, management believes that the undiscounted future cash flows generated by us will be sufficient to recover the carrying amounts of our long-lived assets over their expected remaining useful lives. However, if a significant cash payment is required, or significant assets are put under a constructive trust, the carrying amounts of our long-lived assets may not be recovered. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of these uncertainties. 13 Table of Contents The lawsuits with IBM and Novell will continue to be costly. In the event that we are not successful with the IBM or Novell motions, or the continuing litigation requires more cash than expected, our business and operations would be materially harmed. We must continue to pay for expert, consulting and other expenses through the conclusion of our litigation with IBM and Novell. As we continue with discovery and other trial preparations, we may be required to place additional amounts into the escrow account, which could further reduce our liquidity position. If the Court imposes a constructive trust on proceeds of the fiscal year 2003 SCOsource agreements, we may not be able to continue in business. The federal district judge overseeing our lawsuit with Novell had scheduled a bench trial that was set to begin on September 17, 2007. At that time the federal judge was to determine what portion, if any, of the proceeds of the SCOsource agreements are attributable to older SVRx licenses and should be remitted to Novell, and whether SCO has the authority to enter into certain SCOsource agreements beginning in 2003, including large transactions with Sun and Microsoft. The determination of the amount of proceeds payable to Novell is from a de minimis amount to in excess $30,000,000, the latter amount being the amount claimed by Novell, plus interest. Novell has sought to impose a constructive trust on our current funds traceable to these sources. The trial of these issues, however, was stayed as a result of our filing a voluntary petition for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code on September 14, 2007. Novell filed a motion seeking relief from the automatic stay to continue the trial. If the Bankruptcy Court imposes a constructive trust in an amount that exceeds our cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash, or if the amounts subject of the constructive trust are otherwise significant, we may not be able to continue to operate our business. The bankruptcy judge in Delaware has ruled that the Bankruptcy Court will retain jurisdiction over the constructive trust issue but lifted the stay to allow Novell’s claims for amounts due under the SCOsource agreements and our authority to enter into those licenses to go to trial in federal court in Utah. A four-day bench trial has been scheduled for April 29, 2008 in the U.S. District Court in Utah. It is not known when the constructive trust issue will be addressed. Our claims relating to our UNIX intellectual property may subject us to additional legal proceedings. In August 2003, Red Hat brought a lawsuit against us asserting that the Linux operating system does not infringe our UNIX intellectual property rights and seeking a declaratory judgment for non-infringement of copyrights and non-misappropriation of trade secrets. In addition, Red Hat claims we have engaged in false advertising in violation of the Lanham Act, deceptive trade practices, unfair competition, tortious interference with prospective business opportunities, and trade libel and disparagement. This case is currently stayed pending the resolution of our suit against IBM and because of the bankruptcy proceedings. If Red Hat is successful in its claim against us, our business and results of operations could be materially harmed. Our Engagement Agreement with the Law Firms representing us in the SCO Litigation requires us to pay for expert, consulting and other costs, which could harm our liquidity position. On October 31, 2004, we entered into an engagement agreement (the “Engagement Agreement”) with Boies, Schiller & Flexner LLP, Kevin McBride and Berger Singerman P.A. (the “Law Firms”). This Engagement Agreement supersedes and replaces the original engagement agreement that was entered into in February 2003. The Engagement Agreement governs the relationship between the Law Firms and us in connection with the Law Firms’ representation of us in the SCO Litigation. Berger Singerman P.A. was a member of this group of Law Firms. With 14 Table of Contents our consent, the engagement of this firm was mutually terminated. The last payment received by Berger Singerman P.A. was on November 24, 2004. We must pay one or more contingency fees upon any amount that we or our stockholders may receive as a result of a settlement, judgment or a sale of the company. The contingency fee amounts payable to the Law Firms will be, subject to certain credits and adjustments, as follows: • 33 percent of any aggregate recovery amounts received up to $350,000,000; • plus 25 percent of any aggregate recovery amounts above $350,000,000 but less than or equal to $700,000,000; • plus 20 percent of any aggregate recovery amounts in excess of $700,000,000. The Engagement Agreement specifically provides that, except for the compensation obligations specifically described above, we will not be obligated to pay any legal fees, whether hourly, contingent or otherwise, to the Law Firms, or any other law firms that may be engaged by the Law Firms, in connection with our SCO Litigation through the end of the current litigation between it and IBM, including any appeals. On June 5, 2006, we entered into an amendment to the Engagement Agreement and agreed with the Law Firms to deposit an additional $5,000,000 into the escrow account to cover additional expert, consulting and other expenses. During October 2006, we deposited an additional $5,000,000 into the escrow account. In the event that we exhaust these funds, we must continue to pay for expert, consulting and other expenses through the conclusion of our litigation with IBM. As we continue with discovery and other trial preparations, we may be required to place additional amounts into the escrow account, which could further reduce our liquidity position. As of October 31, 2007, we had a total of $5,554,000 in cash and cash equivalents and an additional $1,833,000 of restricted cash to be used to pursue the SCO Litigation. Since October 31, 2004, we have spent a total of $13,167,000 for expert, consulting and other costs and fees as agreed to in the Engagement Agreement with the Law Firms in the SCO Litigation. In light of the Chapter 11 filings, these arrangements are subject to Bankruptcy Court approval. Developments in the SCO Litigation and fluctuations in our operating results or the failure of our operating results to meet the expectations of public market analysts and investors may negatively impact our stock price and our ability to continue in business. Developments in the SCO Litigation and fluctuations in our operating results or our failure to meet the expectations of analysts or investors, even in the short-term, could cause our stock price to decline significantly. Because of the potential for fluctuations in our expenses related to the SCO Litigation in any particular period, you should not rely on comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of future performance. Factors that may affect our results include: • our ability to operate effectively under Chapter 11 protection and changes in business attitudes toward UNIX as a viable operating system compared to other competing operating systems, especially Linux, as well as the possibility that the automatic stay triggered by our Chapter 11 filing will be lifted or modified, and a constructive trust will be imposed upon our cash in a significant amount or reorganization plan not confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court; • the outcome of pending litigation with Novell and pending motions for summary judgment in our lawsuit with IBM and Novell, adverse rulings relating to IBM’s and Novell’s counterclaims, and results of, developments in, or costs of 15 Table of Contents the SCO Litigation as well as adverse publicity regarding our business and the SCO Litigation; • changes in general economic conditions, such as recessions, that could affect capital expenditures in the software industry; • the interest level of resellers in recommending our UNIX business solutions to end users and the introduction, development, timing, competitive pricing and market acceptance of our products and services and those of our competitors; • the contingency and other costs we may pay to the Law Firms representing us in our efforts to establish and defend our intellectual property rights; • changes in attitudes of customers and partners due to the decline in our UNIX business and our position against the inclusion of our UNIX code and derivative works in Linux; and • the activities of short sellers. We also experience fluctuations in operating results in interim periods in Europe and the Asia Pacific regions due to seasonal slowdowns and economic conditions in these areas. Seasonal slowdowns in these regions typically occur during the summer months. As a result of the factors listed above and elsewhere, it is possible that our results of operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors in any particular period. This could cause our stock price to decline. If revenue falls below our expectations, and we are unable to quickly reduce our spending in response, our operating results will be lower than expected. Our stock price may fall in response to these events. For a further description of recent developments in our litigation with Novell, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Recent Developments, Novell, Inc. Ruling”. For a further description of the risks we face as a result of filing for Chapter 11, see “A long period of operating under Chapter 11 may harm our business”, “We may not be able to obtain confirmation of our Chapter 11 plan”, “A plan of reorganization may result in holders of our common stock receiving no distribution on account of their interests and cancellation of their common stock”, and “Operating under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies.” If we are unable to retain key personnel in an intensely competitive environment, our operations could be adversely affected. We need to retain our key management, technical and support personnel. Competition for qualified professionals in the software industry is intense, and departures of existing personnel could be disruptive to our business and might result in the departure of other employees. During October 2006, we were required to reduce our operating expenses and eliminated certain positions within our worldwide workforce in an effort to reduce operating costs. The loss or departure of any officers or key employees could harm our ability to implement our business plan and could adversely affect our operations. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued service and coordination of our management team, particularly Darl C. McBride, our Chief Executive Officer and Ryan E. Tibbitts our General Counsel. For a discussion of the risks we face in attracting and retaining employees due to our Chapter 11 filing, see “A long period of operating under Chapter 11 may harm our business.” We operate in a highly competitive market and face significant competition from a variety of current and potential sources; many of our current and potential competitors have greater financial and technical resources than we do; thus, we may fail to compete effectively. In the operating system market, our competitors include IBM, Red Hat, Novell, Sun, Microsoft, and other UNIX and Linux distributors. These and other competitors are aggressively 16 Table of Contents pursuing the current UNIX operating system market. Many of these competitors have access to substantially greater resources than we do. The major competitive alternative to our UNIX products is Linux. The expansion of our competitors’ offerings may restrict the overall market available for our UNIX products, including some markets where we have been successful in the past. Our future success may depend in part on our ability to continue to meet the increasing needs of our customers by supporting existing and emerging technologies. If we do not have the resources to enhance our products to meet these evolving needs, we may not remain competitive and be able to sustain our business. Additionally, because technological advancement in the UNIX operating system market and alternative operating system markets is progressing at an advanced pace, we will have to develop and introduce enhancements to our existing products and any new products on a timely basis to keep pace with these developments, evolving industry standards, changing customer requirements and keeping current on certifications. Our failure to meet any of these and other competitive pressures may render our existing products and services obsolete, which would have an adverse impact on our revenue and operations. The success of our UNIX business will depend on the level of commitment and certification we receive from industry partners and developers. In recent years, we have seen hardware and software vendors as well as software developers turn their certification and application development efforts toward Linux and elect not to continue to support or certify to our UNIX operating system products. If this trend continues, our competitive position will be adversely impacted and our future revenue from our UNIX business will decline. The decline in our UNIX business may be accelerated if industry partners withdraw their support from us for any reason, including our SCO Litigation. If the market for UNIX continues to contract, our business will be harmed. Our revenue from the sale of UNIX products has declined over the last several years. This decrease in revenue has been attributable primarily to increased competition from other operating systems, particularly Linux, and from the negative publicity we have received from the SCO Litigation. Our sales of UNIX products and services are primarily to existing customers. If the demand for UNIX products continues to decline, and we are unable to develop UNIX products and services that successfully address a market demand, our UNIX revenue will continue to decline, industry participants may not certify to our operating system and products, we may not be able to attract new customers or retain existing customers and our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. Additionally, with the recent adverse summary judgment rulings in our lawsuit with Novell and our entry into Chapter 11, customers may likely determine to no longer buy our products and services. Because of the long adoption cycle for operating system purchases and the long sales cycle of our operating system products, we may not be able to reverse these revenue declines quickly. We may lose the support of industry partners leading to an accelerated decline in our UNIX products and services revenue. The decline in our UNIX business, the recent rulings in our lawsuit with Novell and our filing for protection under Chapter 11 may cause industry partners, developers, customers and hardware and software vendors to choose not to support or certify to our UNIX operating system products. This would lead to an increased decline in our UNIX products and services revenue and would adversely impact our results of operations and liquidity. 17 Table of Contents We rely on our indirect sales channel for distribution of our products, and any disruption of our channel at any level could adversely affect the sales of our products. We have a two-tiered distribution channel. The relationships we have developed with resellers allow us to offer our products and services to a much larger customer base than we would otherwise be able to reach through our own direct sales and marketing efforts. Some solution providers also purchase solutions through our resellers, and we anticipate they will continue to do so. Because we usually sell indirectly through resellers, we cannot control the relationships through which resellers, solution providers or equipment integrators purchase our products. In turn, we do not control the presentation of our products to end users. Therefore, our sales could be affected by disruptions in the relationships between us and our resellers, between our resellers and solution providers, or between solution providers and end users. Also, resellers and solution providers may choose not to emphasize our products to their customers. Any of these occurrences could diminish the effectiveness of our distribution channel and lead to decreased sales. Our foreign-based operations and sales are subject to the imposition of governmental controls and taxes and fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could hurt our results. We have employees or contractors in certain locations in Europe, the Middle East, Latin America, and Asia. These foreign operations are subject to certain inherent risks, including: • potential loss of developed technology through piracy, misappropriation, or more lenient laws regarding intellectual property protection; • imposition of governmental controls, including trade restrictions and other tax requirements; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates and economic instability; • longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries; and • seasonal reductions in business activity. In addition, certain of our operating expenses are denominated in local currencies, creating risk of foreign currency translation losses that could reduce our financial results and cash flows. When we generate profits in foreign countries, our effective income tax rate is increased. During the three months ended April 30, 2004, our India office was assessed withholding taxes by the Government of India Income Tax Department. The Tax Department assessed a 15% withholding tax on certain revenue transactions in India that the Tax Department deemed royalty revenue under the Income Tax Act. We have filed an appeal with the Tax Department and believe that revenue from our packaged software does not qualify for royalty treatment and therefore would not be subject to withholding tax. However, we may be unsuccessful in our appeal against the Tax Department and be obligated to pay the assessed taxable amounts. Because of our international operations, we may be subject to additional withholding or other taxes from other international jurisdictions. We have lost our listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market as a result of our bankruptcy filing and the loss of our listing has made our stock significantly less liquid and has significantly reduced its value. As a result of our having filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, Nasdaq has used its authority under Marketplace Rules 4300, 4450(f) and IM-4300 to delist our securities from The Nasdaq Capital Market effective December 27, 2007. Upon delisting from the Nasdaq Capital Market, our stock is traded on the Pink Sheets. In order to trade on the Pink Sheets, there must be market makers for our stock. Without a number of market makers in our stock, our stock would be less liquid than it would otherwise be, and the value of our stock could decrease. In addition, compliance with the rules and regulations 18 Table of Contents of the Exchange Act relating to “penny stock” may make it more difficult for holders of our common stock to resell their shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them. Our stock price is volatile. The trading price for our common stock has been volatile during the last several years and our share price has changed dramatically over short periods. We believe that changes in our stock price are affected by the factors mentioned above under the caption entitled “Developments in the SCO Litigation, our bankruptcy filing, delisting from the Nasdaq Capital Market and fluctuations in our operating results or the failure of our operating results to meet the expectations of public market analysts and investors may negatively impact our stock price and our ability to continue in business” as well as from changing public perceptions concerning the strength of the SCO Litigation and other factors beyond our control. Public perception can change quickly and without any change or development in our underlying business or litigation position. An investment in our stock is subject to such volatility and, consequently, is subject to significant risk. There are risks associated with the potential exercise of our outstanding options. As of December 31, 2007, we have issued outstanding options to purchase up to approximately 5,016,000 shares of common stock with an average exercise price of $3.53 per share. The existence of such rights to acquire common stock at fixed prices may prove a hindrance to our efforts to raise future equity and debt funding, and the exercise of such rights will dilute the percentage ownership interest of our stockholders and may dilute the value of their ownership. The possible future sale of shares issuable on the exercise of outstanding options could adversely affect the prevailing market price for our common stock. Further, the holders of the outstanding stock options may exercise them at a time when we would otherwise be able to obtain additional equity capital on terms more favorable to us. Common stock available for resale may depress the market price of our common stock. We have filed a post-effective amendment to a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), which has been declared effective, covering the potential resale by two of our stockholders of up to 923,019 shares of common stock, or 4.3% of our outstanding common stock. The selling stockholders are bound by certain selling limitations, which limit the number of shares of our common stock that may be sold at one time. In addition, we have filed a registration statement with the SEC, which has been declared effective, covering the potential resale by some of our stockholders of up to 2,852,449 shares of our common stock, or 13.3% of our outstanding common stock. The existence of a substantial number of shares of common stock subject to immediate resale could depress the market price for our common stock and impair our ability to raise needed capital. Our stock price could decline further because of the activities of short sellers. Our stock has attracted significant interest from short sellers. The activities of short sellers could further reduce the price of our stock or inhibit increases in our stock price. The right of our Board of Directors to authorize additional shares of preferred stock could adversely impact the rights of holders of our common stock. Our Board of Directors currently has the right, with respect to the 5,000,000 shares of our preferred stock, to authorize the issuance of one or more additional series of our preferred stock with such voting, dividend and other rights as our directors determine. The Board of Directors can designate new series of preferred stock without the approval of the holders of our common stock. The rights of holders of our common stock may be adversely affected by the rights of any 19 Table of Contents holders of additional shares of preferred stock that may be issued in the future, including without limitation, further dilution of the equity ownership percentage of our holders of common stock and their voting power if we issue preferred stock with voting rights. Additionally, the issuance of preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. Our stockholder rights plan could make it more difficult for a hostile bid for our company or a change of control transaction to succeed at current market prices for our stock. We have adopted a stockholder rights plan. The power given to the Board of Directors by the stockholder rights plan may make it more difficult for a change of control of our Company to occur or for our Company to be acquired if the acquisition is opposed by our Board of Directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 