Item 1A. Risk Factors We have identified risk factors described below, which should be viewed in conjunction with the other information contained in this document and information incorporated by reference, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. If any of the following risks or other risks which have not been identified or which we may believe are immaterial or unlikely, actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. As noted previously, this report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including statements about our future plans, objectives, intentions and expectations. Many factors, including those described below, could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in forward-looking statements. Recent developments in the financial services industry and the U.S. and global capital markets may adversely impact our operations and results. Developments in the capital markets over past several years have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general, with the expectation of the general economic uncertainty continuing in 2013 and potentially longer. Loan portfolio performance has deteriorated at many institutions resulting from, among other factors, a weak 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements economy and a decline in the value of collateral. Stock prices of bank holding companies, like ours, have been negatively affected by the current condition of the financial markets and the economy, as has our ability, if needed, to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets, compared to prior periods. As a result, new laws and regulations, including the Dodd-Frank Act, regarding lending, funding practices and capital and liquidity standards have been adopted or are being proposed. The financial institution regulatory agencies are expected to aggressively respond to concerns and adverse trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many enforcement actions. Changes in the financial services industry and the effects of the Dodd-Frank Act, Basel III and other regulatory responses to the credit crisis could negatively affect us by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. Recent Legislative and Regulatory Initiatives Could Affect Our Operations In 2010 the Dodd-Frank Act was enacted and will further increase the regulation and oversight of the financial services industry. The Act addresses, among other things, systemic risk, capital adequacy, deposit insurance assessments, consumer financial protection, interchange fees, derivatives, lending limits, thrift charters and changes among the banking regulatory agencies. Many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act require studies and regulations. Certain provisions will not apply to banking organizations with less than $10 billion of assets. In addition, Basel III increases the requirements for minimum common equity, minimum Tier 1 capital and minimum total capital, to be phased in over time until fully phased in by January 1, 2019. We cannot predict the effects of this legislation and regulations on us, our competitors, customers, counter parties, and on the financial markets and the economy, although it may significantly increase costs and impede efficiency of internal business processes. It also may require us to hold higher levels of regulatory capital and/or liquidity and it may cause us to adjust our business strategy and limit our future business opportunities. Deterioration in local economic and housing markets could lead to additional loan losses and reduced earnings. There has been a dramatic decrease in housing and real estate values in Florida during recent past years which contributed to elevated levels in our non-performing loans, reduced asset quality and increased our credit cost primarily in 2009, 2010 and 2011. The depressed real estate market and elevated levels of unemployment contributed to our reported losses in 2009 and 2010. In addition, while we reported net income in 2011, it was primarily due to significant bargain purchase gains relating to two transactions closed during the year. During 2012 Florida’s real estate market and economy appears to be stabilized and, as a result, substantially all of our credit metrics improved and our non-performing assets at December 31, 2012 were $33.4 million, less than half of our high water mark of $82.3 million at the end of the first quarter of 2011. While these credit improvements were the primary reason for our return to core profitability in 2012, if market conditions reverse and begin to deteriorate again, they may lead to an increase in non-performing assets, elevated credit losses and a return to reduced earnings and potential losses. Our loan portfolio includes commercial and commercial real estate loans that may have higher risks. Our commercial and commercial real estate loans at December 31, 2012 and 2011 were $604.7 million and $573.5 million, respectively, or 53% and 51% of total loans, excluding loans covered by FDIC loss share agreements. Commercial and commercial real estate loans generally carry larger loan balances and can involve a greater degree of financial and credit risk than other loans. As a result, banking regulators continue to give greater scrutiny to lenders with a high concentration of commercial real estate loans in their portfolios, and such lenders are expected to implement stricter underwriting, internal controls, risk management policies and portfolio stress testing, as well as higher capital levels and loss allowances. The increased financial and credit risk associated with these types of loans are a result of several factors, including the concentration of principal in a limited number of loans and borrowers, the size of loan balances, the effects of general economic conditions on income-producing properties and the increased difficulty of evaluating and monitoring these types of loans. 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The federal bank regulatory agencies have released guidance on “Concentrations in Commercial Real Estate Lending” (the “Guidance”). The Guidance defines commercial real estate loans as exposures secured by raw land, land development and construction (including 1-4 family residential construction), multi-family property, and non-farm nonresidential property where the primary or a significant source of repayment is derived from rental income associated with the property (that is, loans for which 50% or more of the source of repayment comes from third party, non-affiliated, rental income) or the proceeds of the sale, refinancing, or permanent financing of the property. The Guidance requires that appropriate processes be in place to identify, monitor and control risks associated with real estate lending concentrations. This could include enhanced strategic planning, underwriting policies, risk management, internal controls, portfolio stress testing and risk exposure limits as well as appropriately designed compensation and incentive programs. Higher allowances for loan losses and capital levels may also be required. The Guidance is triggered when commercial real estate loan concentrations exceed either: • total reported loans for construction, land development, and other land of 100% or more of a bank’s total capital (as of December 31, 2012, our consolidated ratio was 14%); or • Total reported loans secured by multifamily and nonfarm nonresidential properties and loans for construction, land development, and other land of 300% or more of a bank’s total capital (as of December 31, 2012, our consolidated ratio was 107%). The Guidance applies to the lending activities of our subsidiary bank. Regulators have the right to request banks to maintain elevated levels of capital or liquidity due to commercial real estate loan concentrations, and could do so, especially if there is a further downturn in our local real estate markets. In addition, when underwriting a commercial or industrial loan, we may take a security interest in commercial real estate, and, in some instances upon a default by the borrower, we may foreclose on and take title to the property, which may lead to potential financial risks for us under applicable environmental laws. If hazardous substances were discovered on any of these properties, we may be liable to governmental agencies or third parties for the costs of remediation of the hazard, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Many environmental laws can impose liability regardless of whether the Company knew of, or were responsible for, the contamination. Furthermore, the repayment of loans secured by commercial real estate is typically dependent upon the successful operation of the related real estate or commercial project. If the cash flows from the project are reduced, a borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. This cash flow shortage may result in the failure to make loan payments. In such cases, we may be compelled to modify the terms of the loan. In addition, the nature of these loans is such that they are generally less predictable and more difficult to evaluate and monitor. As a result, repayment of these loans may, to a greater extent than residential loans, be subject to adverse conditions in the real estate market or economy. Our business is subject to the success of the local economies where we operate. Our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in our primary and secondary markets. During the recent economic downturn, the rate of growth of each of these four factors has decreased substantially and in some cases has turned negative. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally continue to remain challenging, our business may be adversely affected. Our specific market areas have experienced decreased growth, which has affected the ability of our customers to repay their loans to us and has generally affected our financial condition and results of operations. We are less able than a larger institution to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur. If the value of real estate in our core Florida markets were to remain depressed or decline further, a significant portion of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized, which could have a material adverse effect on us. With our loans concentrated in Florida, the decline in local economic conditions has adversely affected the values of our real estate collateral and will likely continue to do so for the foreseeable future. Consequently, a continued decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are geographically diverse. 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements In addition to relying on the financial strength and cash flow characteristics of the borrower in each case, we often secure loans with real estate collateral. At December 31, 2012, approximately 87% of our loans have real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower but may deteriorate in value during the time credit is extended. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. An inadequate allowance for loan losses would reduce our earnings. The risk of credit losses on loans varies with, among other things, general economic conditions, the type of loan being made, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the value and marketability of the collateral for the loan. Management maintains an allowance for loan losses based upon, among other things, historical experience, an evaluation of economic conditions and regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality. Based upon such factors, management makes various assumptions and judgments about the ultimate collectability of the loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses based upon a percentage of the outstanding balances and for specific loans when their ultimate collectability is considered questionable. If management’s assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect and the allowance for loan losses is inadequate to absorb losses, or if bank regulatory authorities require us to increase the allowance for loan losses as a part of their examination process, our earnings and capital could be significantly and adversely affected. A lack of liquidity could affect our operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our funding sources include federal funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase agreements, non-core deposits, and short- and long-term debt. There are other sources of liquidity available to us should they be needed, including our ability to acquire additional non-core deposits, the issuance and sale of debt securities, and the issuance and sale of preferred or common securities in public or private transactions. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance or capitalize our activities or on terms that are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Our ability to borrow could be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as further disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. We are required to maintain capital to meet regulatory requirements, and if we fail to maintain sufficient capital, whether due to losses, an inability to raise additional capital or otherwise, our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, as well as our ability to maintain regulatory compliance, would be adversely affected. We and our subsidiary bank must meet regulatory capital requirements and maintain sufficient liquidity. Banking organizations experiencing growth, especially those making acquisitions are expected to hold additional capital, above regulatory minimums. From time to time, the regulators implement changes to these regulatory capital adequacy guidelines, such as through the Dodd-Frank Act and the Basel III initiatives described above. It is anticipated that when fully implemented by the banking agencies and fully phased-in, these standards will result in higher and more stringent capital requirements for us and our banking subsidiary. In particular, the Basel III proposals will require us to maintain a minimum ratio of Tier 1 common equity to risk weighed assets of at least 7% when fully phased-in. Further, under the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Reserve, using a phased-in approach commencing in 2013, will no longer include trust preferred and certain other hybrid debt securities in Tier 1 capital. Such eventual loss of Tier 1 capital and any other actions (if necessary) to replace such capital, may adversely affect us. Our ability to raise additional capital, when and if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements economic conditions and a number of other factors, including investor perceptions regarding the banking industry and market condition, and governmental activities, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial condition and performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we fail to meet these capital and other regulatory requirements, our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Our failure to remain “well capitalized” for bank regulatory purposes could affect customer confidence, our ability to grow, our costs of funds and FDIC insurance costs, our ability to pay dividends on common stock and make distributions on our trust preferred securities, our ability to make acquisitions, and our business, results of operations and financial condition. Under FDIC rules, if our subsidiary bank ceases to be a “well capitalized” institution for bank regulatory purposes, the interest rates that it pays and its ability to accept brokered deposits may be restricted. Although we had no wholesale brokered deposits as of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $13 million of in-market CDARs deposits, which are considered brokered deposits for regulatory purposes. Our business strategy includes continued growth, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively. We intend to continue pursuing a growth strategy for our business. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in significant growth stages of development. Particularly in light of prevailing economic conditions, we cannot assure you we will be able to expand our market presence in our existing markets or successfully enter new markets or that any such expansion will not adversely affect our results of operations. Failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, future prospects, financial condition or results of operations, and could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategy. Also, if our growth occurs more slowly than anticipated or declines, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. Our ability to successfully grow will depend on a variety of factors including the continued availability of desirable business opportunities, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in our market areas and our ability to manage our growth. While we believe we have the management resources and internal systems in place to successfully manage our future growth, there can be no assurance growth opportunities will be available or growth will be successfully managed. We may face risks with respect to future expansion. We may acquire other financial institutions through FDIC assisted transactions or otherwise or parts of those institutions in the future and we may engage in additional de novo branch expansion. We may also consider and enter into new lines of business or offer new products or services. We also may receive future inquiries and have discussions with potential acquirors of us. Acquisitions and mergers involve a number of risks, including: • the time and costs associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and merger partners; • inaccurate estimates and judgments regarding credit, operations, management and market risks of the target institution; • the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring experienced local management and opening new offices, and the time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion; • our ability to finance an acquisition and possible dilution to our existing shareholders; • the diversion of our management’s attention to the negotiation of a transaction, and the integration of the operations and personnel of the combining businesses; • entry into new markets where we lack experience; 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • the strain of growth on our infrastructure, staff, internal controls and management, which may require additional personnel, time and expenditures; • exposure to potential asset quality issues with acquired institutions; • the introduction of new products and services into our business; • the possibility of unknown or contingent liabilities; • the incurrence and possible impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and possible adverse short-term effects on our results of operations; and • the risk of loss of key employees and customers. We may incur substantial costs to expand, and we can give no assurance such expansion will result in the levels of profits we seek. There can be no assurance that integration efforts for any future mergers or acquisitions will be successful. Also, we may issue equity securities, including common stock and securities convertible into shares of our common stock, in connection with future acquisitions, which could cause ownership and economic dilution to our current shareholders and to investors purchasing common stock in this offering. There is no assurance that, following any future mergers or acquisitions, our integration efforts will be successful or our company, after giving effect to the acquisition, will achieve profits comparable to or better than our historical experience. The FDIC-assisted transactions we have engaged in or may engage in could present additional risks to our business. We have closed six FDIC-assisted transactions and continue to seek opportunities to continue to acquire the assets and liabilities of other failed banks in FDIC-assisted transactions. Current and future FDIC-assisted transactions present the risks of acquisitions, generally, as well as some risks specific to these transactions. These FDIC-assisted transactions typically provide for FDIC assistance, including potential loss-sharing, to an acquirer to mitigate the credit risks of acquired loans and securities, which, may include loss-sharing. FDIC-assisted transactions have many of the same risks we could face in acquiring another open bank without FDIC assistance, including risks associated with competitive bidding and pricing of such transactions, the risk of loss of deposits and, liquidity through runoff or customer attrition, and failure to realize the anticipated acquisition benefits in the amounts and within the timeframes we expect. In addition, because these acquisitions provide for limited diligence and negotiation of terms, these transactions may pose risks not present in open bank transactions. Loss sharing with the FDIC reduces the credit risks of, and capital required for, FDIC-assisted transactions, but requires additional resources and time to service acquired problem loans, costs related to integration of personnel and operating systems, and the establishment of processes and internal controls to service acquired assets in accordance with FDIC standards. If we are unable to manage these risks, FDIC-assisted acquisitions could have material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Attractive acquisition opportunities may not be available to us in the future. While we seek continued organic growth, as our earnings and capital position improve, we may consider the acquisition of other businesses, including, as discussed above, failed depository institutions offered for sale in FDIC-assisted transactions. The FDIC determines the timing and terms of the sale of failed institutions, and selects the winning bidder based on the “least cost” to the FDIC. The failed banks offered for sale may or may not meet our business objectives. We expect that other banking and financial companies, many of which have significantly greater resources, will compete with us to acquire financial services businesses. This competition could increase prices for potential acquisitions, including the premiums on deposits and the prices paid for assets in FDIC-assisted transactions. This could reduce our potential returns, and reduce the attractiveness of these opportunities and increase their credit and other risks. Also, acquisitions are subject to various regulatory approvals. If we fail to receive the appropriate regulatory approvals, we will not be able to consummate an acquisition that we believe is in our best interests. Among other things, our regulators consider our capital, liquidity, profitability, regulatory compliance and levels of goodwill and intangibles when considering acquisition and expansion proposals. Any acquisition could be dilutive to our earnings and shareholders’ equity per share of our common stock. 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our recent results may not be indicative of our future results. We may not be able to sustain our historical rate of growth or may not even be able to grow our business at all. In addition, our recent growth may distort some of our historical financial ratios and statistics. Various factors, such as economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations and competition, may also impede or prohibit our ability to expand our market presence. If we experience a significant decrease in our historical rate of growth, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected due to a high percentage of our operating costs being fixed expenses. Our continued pace of growth may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, there is no assurance as to our ability to raise additional capital if needed on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. Changes in interest rates may negatively affect our earnings and the value of our assets. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earnings assets, such as loans and investment securities, and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, competition and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the policies of the Federal Reserve. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest our Banks receive on loans and investment securities and the amount of interest they pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) the Bank’s ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, including the available for sale securities portfolio, and (iii) the average duration of our interest-earning assets. Changes in monetary policy could also expose us to the risk that interest-earning assets may be more responsive to changes in interest rates than interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa (repricing risk), the risk that the individual interest rates or rates indices underlying various interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities may not change in the same degree over a given time period (basis risk), and the risk of changing interest rate relationships across the spectrum of interest-earning asset and interest-bearing liability maturities (yield curve risk), including a prolonged flat or inverted yield curve environment. Any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Higher FDIC deposit insurance premiums and assessments could adversely affect our financial condition. FDIC insurance premiums increased substantially in recent years and we may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums in the future. The Dodd-Frank Act changed the FDIC deposit insurance assessments and increased the required Deposit Insurance Fund (“DIF”) reserve ratio, and no longer requires that dividends be paid to FDIC members from excess reserves. It is possible that FDIC insurance costs will increase further, although banks with less than $10 billion of assets will have the effects of the higher DIF reserve ratio offset by the FDIC. Recent levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have experienced volatility and disruption the past several years. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial condition or performance. If these periodic market disruptions and volatility continue or worsen, we may experience adverse effects, which may be material, on our ability to maintain or access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our cost of funds may increase as a result of general economic conditions, FDIC insurance assessments, interest rates and competitive pressures. Our cost of funds may increase as a result of general economic conditions, FDIC insurance assessments, interest rates and competitive pressures. We have traditionally obtained funds principally through local deposits and we have a base of lower cost transaction deposits. Generally, we believe local deposits are a less expensive and more stable source of funds than other borrowings because interest rates paid for local deposits are typically lower than interest rates charged for borrowings from other institutional lenders and reflect a mix of transaction and time deposits, whereas brokered deposits typically are higher cost time deposits. Our costs of funds and our profitability and liquidity are likely to be adversely affected, if and to the extent we have to rely upon higher cost borrowings from other institutional lenders or brokers to fund loan demand or liquidity needs, and changes in our deposit mix and growth could adversely affect our profitability and the ability to expand our loan portfolio. Competition from financial institutions and other financial service providers may adversely affect our profitability. The banking business is highly competitive and we experience competition in our markets from many other financial institutions. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds, and other mutual funds, as well as other super-regional, national and international financial institutions that operate offices in our primary market areas and elsewhere. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, we have to attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Many of our competitors are well-established, larger financial institutions. While we believe we can and do successfully compete with these other financial institutions in our primary markets, we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size, lack of geographic diversification and inability to spread our marketing costs across a broader market. Although we compete by concentrating our marketing efforts in our primary markets with local advertisements, personal contacts, and greater flexibility and responsiveness in working with local customers, we can give no assurance this strategy will be successful. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding and other transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. Defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and losses of depositor, creditor and counterparty confidence and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. We could experience increases in deposits and assets as a result of other banks’ difficulties or failure, which would increase the capital we need to support our growth. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies, including the Federal Reserve, the OCC, the FDIC, FINRA, and the SEC. These regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors, not shareholders. Our compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. We are also subject to capitalization guidelines established by our regulators, which require us to maintain adequate capital to support our growth. 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. We are dependent upon the services of our management team. Our future success and profitability are substantially dependent upon the management and banking abilities of our senior executives. Although we currently have employment agreements in place with our senior management team, we cannot guarantee you that our senior executives will remain with us. Changes in key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We believe that our future results will also depend in part upon our attracting and retaining highly skilled and qualified management and sales and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in retaining such personnel. Technological changes affect our business, and we may have fewer resources than many competitors to invest in technological improvements. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to serving clients better, the effective use of technology may increase efficiency and may enable financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to use technology to provide products and services that provide convenience to customers and to create additional efficiencies in operations. We may need to make significant additional capital investments in technology in the future, and we may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services. Many competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. Hurricanes or other adverse weather events would negatively affect our local economies or disrupt our operations, which would have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Our market areas in Florida are susceptible to hurricanes and tropical storms and related flooding and wind damage. Such weather events can disrupt operations, result in damage to properties and negatively affect the local economies in the markets where they operate. We cannot predict whether or to what extent damage that may be caused by future hurricanes will affect our operations or the economies in our current or future market areas, but such weather events could result in a decline in loan originations, a decline in the value or destruction of properties securing our loans and an increase in delinquencies, foreclosures or loan losses. Our business or results of operations may be adversely affected by these and other negative effects of future hurricanes or tropical storms, including flooding and wind damage. Many of our customers have incurred significantly higher property and casualty insurance premiums on their properties located in our markets, which may adversely affect real estate sales and values in those markets. 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 