ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Ownership of our common stock involves risk. You should carefully consider, in addition to the other information set forth herein, the following risk factors. Risks Related to Our Business Our business has been and may continue to be adversely affected by current conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. From December 2007 through June 2009, the U.S. economy was in recession and economic recovery through 2013 has been sluggish. As a result, the global financial markets have undergone and may continue to experience pervasive and fundamental disruptions. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers' underlying financial strength. While economic conditions have shown signs of improvement, the sustainability of an economic recovery is uncertain as business activity across a wide range of industries continues to face difficulties due to cautious business spending, a general lack of consumer spending, and sustained high levels of unemployment. A sustained weakness or further weakening in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the principal markets in which we do business could have one or more of the following adverse effects on our business: •a decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by us; •a decrease in deposit balances due to overall reductions in the accounts of customers; •a decrease in the value of our loans or other assets secured by consumer or commercial real estate; •a decrease in net interest income derived from our lending and deposit gathering activities; •an impairment of certain intangible assets; or •an increase in the number of borrowers who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to us. An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs and provision for credit losses. Overall, the economic downturn has had an adverse effect on our business, and there can be no assurance that the economic recovery will be sustainable in the near term. If economic conditions worsen or remain volatile, we expect our business, financial condition and results of operations to be adversely affected. 25 Table of Contents Changes in economic conditions, in particular a reversal of the economic recovery in Southern California, could materially and adversely affect our business. Our business is directly impacted by factors such as economic, political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, and changes in government monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond our control. Although the Southern California economy continues to recover from the 2008 - 2009 recession, the region's recovery has lagged the rate of recovery of the national economy. The California unemployment rate remains elevated compared to the national rate and the state's overall economy continues to be negatively impacted by weaknesses in housing and employment in the inland regions. If there is a reversal of the the current fragile economic recovery, the Company could experience an increase in nonaccrual and classified loans, which generally results in a provision for credit losses and in turn reduces the Company's net earnings. Any further deterioration in the economic conditions, whether caused by national or local concerns, could materially and adversely affect our business. In particular, deterioration of the economic conditions in Southern California could result in the following consequences, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business: loan delinquencies may increase; problem assets and foreclosures may increase; demand for our products and services may decrease; low cost or noninterest bearing deposits may decrease; and collateral for loans made by us, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing customers' borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our existing loans. Until conditions provide for sustained improvement, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Further disruptions in the real estate market could materially and adversely affect our business. In conjunction with the recent financial crisis, the real estate market experienced a slow-down due to negative economic trends and credit market disruption, the impacts of which are not yet completely known or quantified. At December 31, 2013, 65% and 5% of our total gross loans, both non-covered and covered, were comprised of real estate mortgage loans and real estate construction loans, respectively. While the real estate market has shown signs of recovery, we continue to observe in the marketplace tighter credit underwriting and higher premiums on liquidity, both of which may continue to place downward pressure on real estate values. Any further downturn in the real estate market could materially and adversely affect our business because a significant portion of our non-covered loans is secured by real estate. Our ability to recover on defaulted non-covered loans by selling the real estate collateral would then be diminished and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted non-covered loans. Substantially all of our real property collateral is located in Southern California. If there were a further decline in real estate values, especially in Southern California, the collateral for our non-covered loans would provide less security. Real estate values could be affected by, among other things, a worsening of economic conditions, an increase in foreclosures, a decline in home sale volumes, an increase in interest rates, continued high levels of unemployment, earthquakes, droughts, wild fires and other natural disasters particular to California. Our business is subject to interest rate risk, and variations in interest rates may materially and adversely affect our financial performance. Changes in the interest rate environment may reduce our profits. It is expected that we will continue to realize income from the differential or "spread" between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. Net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and repricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Changes in market interest rates generally affect loan volume, loan yields, funding sources and funding costs. Our net interest spread depends on many factors that are partly or completely out of our control, including competition, federal economic monetary and fiscal policies, and general economic conditions. 26 Table of Contents While an increase in the general level of interest rates may increase our loan yield, it may adversely affect the ability of certain borrowers with variable-rate loans to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations. In addition, an increase in market interest rates on loans is generally associated with a lower volume of loan originations, which may reduce earnings. Following an increase in the general level of interest rates, our ability to maintain a positive net interest spread is dependent on our ability to increase our loan offering rates, replace loan maturities with new originations, minimize increases on our deposit rates, and maintain an acceptable level and mix of funding. We cannot provide assurances that we will be able to increase our loan offering rates and continue to originate loans due to the competitive landscape in which we operate. Additionally, we cannot provide assurances that we can minimize the increases in our deposit rates while maintaining an acceptable level of deposits. Finally, we cannot provide any assurances that we can maintain our current levels of noninterest bearing deposits as customers may seek higher yielding products when rates increase. Following a decline in the general level of interest rates, our ability to maintain a positive net interest spread is dependent on our ability to reduce the interest paid on deposits, borrowings, and other interest-bearing liabilities. We cannot provide assurance that we would be able to lower the rates paid on deposit accounts to support our liquidity requirements as lower rates may result in deposit outflows. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, loan origination volume, liquidity, and overall profitability. We cannot assure you that we can minimize our interest rate risk. We face strong competition from financial services companies and other companies that offer banking services, which could materially and adversely affect our business. We conduct our banking operations primarily in Southern California. Increased competition in our market may result in reduced loans and deposits or less favorable loan and deposit terms. Ultimately, we may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Many competitors offer the same banking services that we offer in our service areas. These competitors include national banks, regional banks and other community banks. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including without limitation, savings and loan institutions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries. In particular, our competitors include several major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations and ATMs and conduct extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Additionally, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions have larger lending limits and are thereby able to serve the credit needs of larger customers. Areas of competition include interest rates for loans and deposits, efforts to obtain deposits, and the range and quality of products and services provided, including new technology driven products and services. Technological innovation continues to contribute to greater competition in domestic and international financial services markets as technological advances enable more companies to provide financial services. We also face competition from out-of-state financial intermediaries that have opened production offices or that solicit deposits in our market areas. Should competition in the financial services industry intensify, our ability to market our products and services may be adversely affected. If we are unable to attract and retain banking customers, we may be unable to grow or maintain the levels of our loans and deposits and our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Competition from financial institutions seeking to maintain adequate liquidity places upward pressure on the rates paid on certain deposit accounts relative to the level of market interest rates during times of both decreasing and increasing market liquidity. To maintain both attractive and 27 Table of Contents adequate levels of liquidity, without exhausting secondary sources of liquidity, we may incur increased deposit costs. Several rating agencies publish unsolicited ratings of the financial performance and relative financial health of many banks, including Pacific Western, based on publicly available data. As these ratings are publicly available, a decline in the Bank's ratings may result in deposit outflows or the inability of the Bank to raise deposits in the secondary market as broker-dealers and depositors may use such ratings in deciding where to deposit their funds. We may need to raise additional capital in the future and such capital may not be available when needed or at all. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs. As a publicly traded company, a likely source of additional funds is the capital markets, accomplished generally through the issuance of equity, both common and preferred stock, and the issuance of subordinated debentures. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and our financial performance. The current economic conditions and the loss of confidence in financial institutions may increase our cost of funding and limit our access to some of our customary sources of liquidity, including, but not limited to, the capital markets, inter-bank borrowings, repurchase agreements and borrowings from the discount window of the FRB. We cannot assure you that access to such capital and liquidity will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt purchasers, or depositors of the Bank or counterparties participating in the capital markets, may materially and adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. An inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could have a materially adverse effect on our business. We are subject to extensive regulation, which could materially and adversely affect our business. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal and state governmental authorities, and we are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of our operations. The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July 2010, instituted major changes to the banking and financial institutions regulatory regimes. Regulations affecting banks and other financial institutions, such as the Dodd-Frank Act, are undergoing continuous review and change frequently; the ultimate effect of such changes cannot be predicted. Because our business is highly regulated, compliance with such regulations and laws may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. Also, participation in specific government stabilization programs may subject us to additional restrictions. There can be no assurance that laws, rules and regulations will not be proposed or adopted in the future, which could (i) make compliance much more difficult or expensive, (ii) restrict our ability to originate, broker or sell loans or accept certain deposits, (iii) further limit or restrict the amount of commissions, interest or other charges earned on loans originated or sold by us, or (iv) otherwise materially and adversely affect our business or prospects for business. The Dodd-Frank Act has had and will continue to have material implications for the Company and the entire financial services industry. Among other things it has had or will or potentially could have the following effects: •together with regulations implementing Basel reforms, affect the levels of capital and liquidity with which we must operate and how we plan capital and liquidity levels; 28 Table of Contents •subject us to new and/or higher fees paid to various regulatory entities, including but not limited to deposit insurance fees to the FDIC; •impact our ability to invest in certain types of entities or engage in certain activities; •restrict the nature of our incentive compensation programs for executive officers; •subject us to the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, with its very broad rule-making and enforcement authorities; and •subject us to new and different litigation and regulatory enforcement risks. As the Dodd-Frank Act requires that many studies be conducted and that hundreds of regulations be written in order to fully implement it, the full impact of this legislation on us, our business strategies, and financial performance cannot be known at this time, and may not be known for a number of years. However, these impacts are expected to be substantial and some of them are likely to adversely affect us and our financial performance. The Dodd-Frank Act and related regulations may also require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes, and could therefore also adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, if the CapitalSource merger is consummated, we will be subject to substantial additional regulation. See "Risk Factors—Risks Relating to the Pending Merger with CapitalSource—If the CapitalSource merger is consummated, we will be subject to substantial additional regulation." Additionally, in order to conduct certain activities, including acquisitions, we are required to obtain regulatory approval. There can be no assurance that any required approvals can be obtained, or obtained without conditions or on a timeframe acceptable to us. For more information, please see "Item 1. Business—Supervision and Regulation." We are subject to capital adequacy standards, and a failure to meet these standards could adversely affect our financial condition. The Company and the Bank are each subject to capital adequacy and liquidity guidelines and other regulatory requirements specifying minimum amounts and types of capital that must be maintained. From time to time, the regulators implement changes to these regulatory capital adequacy and liquidity guidelines. If we fail to meet these minimum capital and liquidity guidelines and other regulatory requirements, we or our subsidiaries may be restricted in the types of activities we may conduct and may be prohibited from taking certain capital actions, such as paying dividends and repurchasing or redeeming capital securities. In particular, the capital requirements applicable to the Company and the Bank under the recently adopted Basel III capital rules are in the process of being phased-in. Once these new rules take effect, we will be required to satisfy additional and more stringent capital adequacy and liquidity standards than we have in the past. Additionally, stress testing requirements may have the effect of requiring us to comply with the requirements of the Basel III capital rules, or potentially even greater capital requirements, sooner than expected. While we expect to meet the requirements of the Basel III capital rules, inclusive of the capital conservation buffer, as phased in by the Federal Reserve, these requirements could have a negative impact on our ability to lend, grow deposit balances, make acquisitions and make capital distributions in the form of increased dividends or share repurchases. Higher capital levels could also lower our return on equity. For more information concerning our compliance with capital and liquidity requirements, see "Item 1. Business—Supervision and Regulation—Capital Requirements." 29 Table of Contents The Dodd-Frank repeal of federal prohibitions on payment of interest on demand deposits could increase our interest expense. All federal prohibitions on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on demand deposit accounts were repealed as part of the Dodd-Frank Act. As a result, financial institutions can offer interest on demand deposits to compete for clients. Our interest expense will increase and our net interest margin will decrease if the Bank begins offering interest on demand deposits to attract additional customers or maintain current customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Emergency measures designed to stabilize the U.S. financial system are beginning to wind down. Since the middle of 2008, in addition to the programs initiated under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, other regulators and federal agencies have taken steps to attempt to stabilize and add liquidity to the financial markets. Some of these programs have begun to expire and the impact of the expiration of these programs on the financial industry and the economic recovery is unknown. A slowdown in or reversal of the economic recovery could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increases in or required prepayments of FDIC insurance premiums may adversely affect our earnings. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance and premiums may be increased or accelerated in the future. Since 2008, higher levels of bank failures dramatically increased resolution costs of the FDIC and depleted the deposit insurance fund. In addition, the FDIC instituted temporary programs, some of which were made permanent by the Dodd-Frank Act, to further insure customer deposits at FDIC insured banks, which have placed additional stress on the deposit insurance fund. In order to maintain a strong funding position and restore reserve ratios of the deposit insurance fund, the FDIC increased assessment rates of insured institutions. In addition, on November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted a rule requiring banks to prepay three years' worth of premiums to replenish the depleted insurance fund. Historically, the FDIC utilized a risk-based assessment system that imposed insurance premiums based upon a risk matrix that takes into account several components including but not limited to the bank's capital level and supervisory rating. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC amended its regulations to base insurance assessments on the average consolidated assets less the average tangible equity of the insured depository institution during the assessment period. Any future increases in or required prepayments of FDIC insurance premiums may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Our information systems may experience an interruption or security breach. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability. 30 Table of Contents We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title. In the course of our business, we may own or foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable by a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may not pay dividends on common stock. Our stockholders are only entitled to receive such dividends as our Board of Directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and may reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. Our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders is subject to the restrictions set forth in Delaware law, by our federal regulator, and by certain covenants contained in the indentures governing the trust preferred securities issued by us or entities we have acquired. Notification to the FRB is also required prior to our declaring and paying a cash dividend to our stockholders during any period in which our quarterly and/or cumulative twelve-month net earnings are insufficient to fund the dividend amount, among other requirements. We may not pay a dividend should the FRB object until such time as we receive approval from the FRB or we no longer need to provide notice under applicable regulations. See "Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters—Dividends" for more information on these restrictions. In addition, we may be restricted by applicable law or regulation or actions taken by our regulators, or as a result of our participation in any specific government stabilization programs, now or in the future, from paying dividends to our stockholders. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will continue paying dividends on our common stock at current levels or at all. Our failure to pay dividends on our common stock could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. The primary source of the holding company's liquidity from which, among other things, we pay dividends is the receipt of dividends from the Bank. The holding company, PacWest, is a legal entity separate and distinct from the Bank and our other subsidiaries. The availability of dividends from the Bank is limited by various statutes and regulations. It is possible, depending upon the financial condition of the Bank and other factors, that the FRB, the FDIC and/or the DBO could assert that payment of dividends or other payments is an unsafe or unsound practice, or that such regulatory authority may impose restrictions on the Bank's ability to pay dividends as a condition to the Bank's participation in any stabilization program. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends to the holding company, it is likely that we, in turn, would have to stop paying dividends on our common stock and may have difficulty meeting our other financial obligations, including payments in respect of any outstanding indebtedness or trust preferred securities. The inability of the Bank to pay dividends to us could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. See "Item 1. Business—Supervision and Regulation" for additional information on the regulatory restrictions to which we and the Bank are subject. Only a limited trading market exists for our common stock, which could lead to price volatility. Our common stock trades on The NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol "PACW" and our trading volume is generally modest. The limited trading market for our common stock may cause fluctuations in the market value of our common stock to be exaggerated, leading to price volatility in 31 Table of Contents excess of that which would occur in a more active trading market of our common stock. In addition, even if a more active market in our common stock develops, we cannot assure you that such a market will continue or that stockholders will be able to sell their shares. Our allowance for credit losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. In accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, we maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses to provide for loan and lease defaults and non-performance and a reserve for unfunded loan commitments, which, when combined, we refer to as the allowance for credit losses. Our allowance for credit losses may not be adequate to address actual credit losses, and future provisions for credit losses could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Our allowance for credit losses is based on prior experience and an evaluation of the risks in the current portfolio. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. Our federal and state regulators, as an integral part of their examination process, review our loans and leases and allowance for credit losses. While we believe our allowance for credit losses is appropriate for the risk identified in the Company's loan and lease portfolio, we cannot assure you that we will not further increase the allowance for credit losses, that it will be sufficient to address losses, or that regulators will not require us to increase this allowance. Any of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect our earnings. See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for more information. Our acquisitions may subject us to unknown risks. We have completed 26 acquisitions since May 2000. In addition, the CapitalSource merger is pending. Certain events may arise after the date of an acquisition, or we may learn of certain facts, events or circumstances after the closing of an acquisition, that may affect our financial condition or performance or subject us to risk of loss. These events include, but are not limited to: litigation resulting from circumstances occurring at the acquired entity prior to the date of acquisition; loan downgrades and credit loss provisions resulting from underwriting of certain acquired loans determined not to meet our credit standards; personnel changes that cause instability within a department; delays in implementing new policies or procedures or the failure to apply new policies or procedures; and other events relating to the performance of our business. Acquisitions involve inherent uncertainty and we cannot determine all potential events, facts and circumstances that could result in loss or give assurances that our investigation or mitigation efforts will be sufficient to protect against any such loss. We are dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel may materially and adversely affect our prospects. We currently depend heavily on the services of our chairman, John Eggemeyer, our chief executive officer, Matthew Wagner, and a number of other key management personnel. The loss of Mr. Eggemeyer's or Mr. Wagner's services or that of other key personnel could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our success also depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain additional qualified management personnel. Competition for such personnel is strong in the banking industry, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining the personnel we require. Concentrated ownership of our common stock creates a risk of sudden changes in our share price. As of February 18, 2014, directors and members of our executive management team owned or controlled approximately 4% of our common stock, excluding shares that may be issued to executive officers upon vesting of restricted stock awards. Investors who purchase our common stock may be subject to certain risks due to the concentrated ownership of our common stock. The sale by any of our large stockholders of a significant portion of that stockholder's holdings could have a material adverse 32 Table of Contents effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the registration of any significant amount of additional shares of our common stock will have the immediate effect of increasing the public float of our common stock and any such increase may cause the market price of our common stock to decline or fluctuate significantly. Our largest stockholder is a registered bank holding company, and the activities and regulation of such stockholder may materially and adversely affect the permissible activities of the Company. CapGen Capital Group II LP, which we refer to as CapGen, beneficially owned approximately 9% of the Company as of February 18, 2014. CapGen is a registered bank holding company under the BHCA and is regulated by the FRB. Under the Dodd-Frank Act and related regulations, bank holding companies must be a "source of strength" for their subsidiaries. See "Item 1. Business—Supervision and Regulation—Bank Holding Company Regulation" for more information. Regulation of CapGen by the FRB may materially and adversely affect the activities and strategic plans of the Company should the FRB determine that CapGen or any other company in which either has invested has engaged in any unsafe or unsound banking practices or activities. While we have no reason to believe that the FRB is proposing to take any action with respect to CapGen that would adversely affect the Company, we remain subject to such risk. A natural disaster could harm the Company's business. Historically, California, in which a substantial portion of our business is located, has been susceptible to natural disasters, such as earthquakes, floods, droughts and wild fires and is currently in the midst of an ongoing drought. The nature and level of natural disasters cannot be predicted and may be exacerbated by global climate change. These natural disasters could harm our operations through interference with communications, including the interruption or loss of our computer systems, which could prevent or impede the Company from gathering deposits, originating loans and processing and controlling its flow of business, as well as through the destruction of facilities and our operational, financial and management information systems. Additionally, natural disasters could negatively impact the values of collateral securing our loans and interrupt our borrowers' abilities to conduct their business in a manner to support their debt obligations, either of which could result in losses and increased provisions for credit losses. Our decisions regarding the fair value of assets acquired, including the realization of the FDIC loss sharing asset, could be inaccurate which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and future prospects. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of acquired loans, including the creditworthiness of borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of secured loans. In FDIC-assisted acquisitions that include loss sharing agreements, we may record a loss sharing asset that we consider adequate to absorb future losses, which may occur in the acquired loan portfolio. In determining the realization of the loss sharing asset, we analyze the expected cash flows, volume and classification of loans, volume and trends in delinquencies and nonaccruals, local economic conditions, and other pertinent information. If our assumptions are incorrect, the balance of the FDIC loss sharing asset may at any time be insufficient to cover future loan losses or subject to accelerated amortization. Any increase in future losses on loans and other assets covered by loss sharing agreements as well as any decrease in the expected cash flows from the FDIC could have a negative effect on our operating results. 33 Table of Contents Our ability to obtain reimbursement under the loss sharing agreements on covered assets depends on our compliance with the terms of the loss sharing agreements. Management must certify to the FDIC on a quarterly basis our compliance with the terms of the FDIC loss sharing agreements as a prerequisite to obtaining reimbursement from the FDIC for realized losses on covered assets. The required terms of the agreements are extensive and failure to comply with any of the guidelines could result in a specific asset or group of assets temporarily or permanently losing their loss sharing coverage. Additionally, management may decide to forgo loss share coverage on certain assets to allow greater flexibility over the management of certain assets. As of December 31, 2013, $473.6 million, or 7.2%, of the Company's assets, were covered by FDIC loss sharing agreements. Under the terms of the FDIC loss sharing agreements, the assignment or transfer of the loss sharing agreement to another entity generally requires the written consent of the FDIC. Based on the manner in which assignment is defined in the agreements, the following events require the prior written consent of the FDIC for the applicable loss sharing agreements to continue: 1.a merger or consolidation of the Bank with or into another financial institution if the stockholders of the Bank will own less than 66.66% of the equity of the consolidated entity; 2.a merger or consolidation of the Company with or into another company if the stockholders of the Company will own less than 66.66% of the equity of the consolidated entity; 3.the sale of all or substantially all of the Bank's assets to another financial institution; and 4.a sale of shares by any one or more stockholders that will effect a change in control of the Bank, as determined by the FDIC with reference to the standards set forth in the Change in Bank Control Act, 12 U.S.C. 1817(j). No assurances can be given that we will manage the covered assets in such a way as to always maintain loss share coverage on all such assets. Risks Related to the Pending Merger with CapitalSource On July 22, 2013, the Company announced it had entered into the CapitalSource merger agreement. The Company may be subject to the following risk factors in connection with the pending merger with CapitalSource: Combining the Company and CapitalSource may be more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected and the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the merger may not be realized. The success of the CapitalSource merger will depend on, among other things, the Company's ability to combine the businesses of PacWest and CapitalSource. If the Company is not able to successfully achieve this objective, the anticipated benefits of the CapitalSource merger may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. The Company and CapitalSource have operated and, until the consummation of the CapitalSource merger, will continue to operate independently. To realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings, after the completion of the CapitalSource merger, the Company expects to integrate CapitalSource's business into its own. It is possible that the integration process or other factors could result in the loss or departure of key employees, the disruption of the ongoing business of the Company or CapitalSource or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies. The loss of key employees could have an adverse effect on the Company's financial results and the value of our common stock. It is also possible that clients, customers, depositors and counterparties of the Company or CapitalSource could choose to discontinue their relationships with the Company post-merger because they prefer doing business with an independent company or for any other reason, which would adversely affect the future performance of the Company. These transition matters could have an 34 Table of Contents adverse effect on the Company during the pre-merger period and for an undetermined amount of time after the consummation of the CapitalSource merger. The Company expects to incur substantial expenses related to the CapitalSource merger. The Company expects to incur substantial expenses in connection with consummation of the CapitalSource merger and combining the business, operations, networks, systems, technologies, policies and procedures of CapitalSource with those of the Company. Although the Company has assumed that a certain level of transaction and combination expenses would be incurred, there are a number of factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount or the timing of such combination expenses. Many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately at the present time. Due to these factors, the transaction and combination expenses associated with the CapitalSource merger could, particularly in the near term, exceed the savings that the Company expects to achieve from the elimination of duplicative expenses and the realization of economies of scale and cost savings related to the combination of the businesses following the consummation of the CapitalSource merger. As a result of these expenses, the Company expects to take charges against our earnings before and after the completion of the CapitalSource merger. The charges taken in connection with the CapitalSource merger are expected to be significant, although the aggregate amount and timing of such charges are uncertain at present. Failure of the CapitalSource merger to be completed, termination of the merger agreement or a significant delay in the consummation of the CapitalSource merger could negatively impact the Company. The merger agreement is subject to a number of conditions which must be fulfilled in order to complete the CapitalSource merger. Remaining conditions include: (i) receipt of requisite regulatory approvals subject to certain limitations set forth in the merger agreement and (ii) absence of any governmental order or law prohibiting completion of the CapitalSource merger. The obligation of each party to consummate the CapitalSource merger is also conditioned upon: (i) subject to certain exceptions, the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the other party, (ii) performance in all material respects by the other party of its obligations under the merger agreement, (iii) the adjusted stockholders' equity of the other party being in excess of a specified level, (iv) receipt by such party of a tax opinion to the effect that the CapitalSource merger will qualify as a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code and (v) the absence of a material adverse effect with respect to the other party since the date of the merger agreement. The Company and CapitalSource have agreed to use their respective reasonable best efforts to obtain all necessary regulatory approvals for the CapitalSource merger. The parties will not be required to take any action, or agree to any condition or restriction, in connection with obtaining any regulatory permits, consents, approvals and authorizations of governmental authorities that would reasonably be likely, in each case following the effective time (but regardless when the action, condition or restriction is to be taken or implemented), to (i) have a material adverse effect with respect to the combined company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole or (ii) require the Company or the Bank to raise additional capital in an amount that would materially reduce the economic benefits of the CapitalSource merger to the holders of Company common stock (including the CapitalSource stockholders in respect of the shares of Company common stock received by them in the CapitalSource merger). The remaining conditions to the consummation of the CapitalSource merger may not be fulfilled and, accordingly, the CapitalSource merger may not be completed. In addition, if the CapitalSource merger is not completed by July 31, 2014, either the Company or CapitalSource may choose not to proceed with the CapitalSource merger, and the parties can mutually decide to terminate the merger agreement at any time. 35 Table of Contents If the CapitalSource merger is not consummated, the ongoing business, financial condition and results of operations of the Company may be materially adversely affected and the market price of the Company's common stock may decline significantly, particularly to the extent that the current market price reflects a market assumption that the CapitalSource merger will be consummated. If the consummation of the CapitalSource merger is delayed, the business, financial condition and results of operations of the Company may be materially adversely affected. Additionally, if the merger agreement is terminated, under certain circumstances, the Company may be required to pay a termination fee to CapitalSource in the amount of $59 million. In addition, the Company has incurred and will incur substantial expenses in connection with the negotiation and completion of the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement. If the CapitalSource merger were not completed, the Company would have to recognize these expenses without realizing the expected benefits of the transaction. Any of the foregoing, or other risks arising in connection with the failure of or delay in consummating the CapitalSource merger, including the diversion of management attention from pursuing other opportunities and the constraints in the merger agreement on the ability to make significant changes to the Company's ongoing business during the pendency of the CapitalSource merger, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, the Company's business may have been adversely impacted by the failure to pursue other beneficial opportunities due to the focus of management on the CapitalSource merger, without realizing any of the anticipated benefits of completing the CapitalSource merger, and the market price of the Company's common stock might decline to the extent that the current market price reflects a market assumption that the CapitalSource merger will be completed. If the merger agreement is terminated and the board of directors seeks another merger or business combination, our stockholders cannot be certain that the Company will be able to find a party willing to engage in a transaction on more attractive terms than the CapitalSource merger. We are subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the CapitalSource merger is pending. Uncertainty about the effect of the CapitalSource merger on employees, customers, suppliers and vendors may have an adverse effect on the business, financial condition and results of operations of the Company. These uncertainties may impair the Company's ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel, depositors and borrowers pending the consummation of the CapitalSource merger, as such personnel, depositors and borrowers may experience uncertainty about their future roles following the consummation of the CapitalSource merger. Additionally, these uncertainties could cause customers (including depositors and borrowers), suppliers, vendors and others who deal with us to seek to change existing business relationships with us or fail to extend an existing relationship with us. In addition, competitors may target the Company's existing customers by highlighting potential uncertainties and integration difficulties that may result from the CapitalSource merger. The Company has a small number of key personnel. The pursuit of the CapitalSource merger and the preparation for the integration may place a burden on the Company's management and internal resources. Any significant diversion of management attention away from ongoing business concerns and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the merger agreement restricts the Company from taking certain actions without CapitalSource's consent while the CapitalSource merger is pending. These restrictions may, among other matters, prevent the Company from pursuing otherwise attractive business opportunities, selling assets, incurring indebtedness, engaging in significant capital expenditures in excess of certain limits set forth in the merger agreement, entering into other transactions or making other changes to the 36 Table of Contents Company's business prior to consummation of the CapitalSource merger or termination of the merger agreement. These restrictions could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. The per share cash consideration to be paid in the CapitalSource merger and the exchange ratio are fixed and will not be adjusted for changes in our business, assets, liabilities, prospects, outlook, financial condition or results of operations, or in the event of any change in our stock price. The merger consideration of $2.47 per share and the exchange ratio of 0.2837 of a share of PacWest common stock are fixed in the CapitalSource merger agreement and will not be adjusted for changes in our business, assets, liabilities, prospects, outlook, financial condition or results of operations, or changes in the market price of, analyst estimates of, or projections relating to, PacWest common stock. Any change in the market price of our common stock prior to the completion of the CapitalSource merger may affect the value of the stock component of the merger consideration that CapitalSource stockholders will receive upon completion of the CapitalSource merger. Stock price changes may result from a variety of factors, including general market and economic conditions, changes in our business, operations and prospects, and regulatory considerations, among other things. Many of these factors are beyond our control. If the CapitalSource merger is consummated, we will be subject to substantial additional regulation. If the CapitalSource merger is consummated, we will be subject to substantial additional regulation. Areas of additional regulation will include, but not be limited to, more sophisticated stress testing, additional capital requirements, including potentially the phase out of our trust preferred securities as Tier 1 capital that otherwise would have been grandfathered, more rigorous capital planning, enhanced governance standards, including those relating to risk management, higher FDIC deposit insurance assessments and direct oversight and examination by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. These additional regulatory requirements could divert management's attention away from ongoing business concerns, place a burden on internal resources, impose additional costs or limitations on the Company and affect our profitability. Regulatory approvals may not be received, may take longer than expected or may impose conditions that are not presently anticipated or cannot be met. Before the CapitalSource merger and the bank merger in connection therewith, may be completed, various approvals must be obtained from bank regulatory authorities. These governmental entities may impose conditions on the granting of such approvals. Such conditions or changes and the process of obtaining regulatory approvals could have the effect of delaying completion of the CapitalSource merger or of imposing additional costs or limitations on the Company following the CapitalSource merger. The regulatory approvals may not be received at all, may not be received in a timely fashion, and may contain conditions on the completion of the CapitalSource merger that are not anticipated or cannot be met. If the consummation of the CapitalSource merger is delayed, including by a delay in receipt of necessary governmental approvals, the business, financial condition and results of operations of the Company may also be materially adversely affected. The CapitalSource merger will result in changes to the board of directors of the Company. Upon completion of the CapitalSource merger, the composition of the board of directors of the Company will be different from the current board composition. The Company's board of directors currently consists of 15 directors. Upon the completion of the CapitalSource merger, the board of directors of the Company will consist of 13 members, eight of whom will be designated by the Company, and five of whom will be designated by CapitalSource, each of whom will be mutually 37 Table of Contents agreeable to the Company and CapitalSource. This new composition of the board of directors of the Company may affect the future decisions of the Company. In connection with the announcement of the CapitalSource merger agreement, 11 lawsuits have been filed and are pending, seeking, among other things, to enjoin the CapitalSource merger, and an adverse judgment in this lawsuit may prevent the CapitalSource merger from becoming effective within the expected time frame (if at all). Since July 24, 2013, 11 putative stockholder class action lawsuits, referred to as the merger litigations, were filed against CapitalSource, PacWest and certain other defendants in connection with the CapitalSource merger agreement. Five of the 11 actions were filed in Superior Court of California, Los Angeles County: (1) Engel v. CapitalSource Inc. et al., Case No. BC516267, filed on July 24, 2013; (2) Miller v. Fremder et al., Case No. BC516590, filed on July 29, 2013; (3) Basu v. CapitalSource Inc. et al., Case No. BC516775, filed on July 31, 2013; (4) Holliday v. PacWest Bancorp et al., Case No. BC517209, filed on August 5, 2013; and (5) Iron Workers Mid-South Pension Fund v. CapitalSource Inc. et al., Case No. BC517698, filed on August 8, 2013, referred to as the California actions. The other six actions were filed in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware: (1) Fosket v. Byrnes et al., Case No. 8765, filed on August 1, 2013; (2) Bennett v. CapitalSource Inc. et al., Case No. 8770, filed on August 2, 2013; (3) Chalfant v. CapitalSource et al., Case No. 8777, filed on August 6, 2013; (4) Oliveira v. CapitalSource Inc. et al., Case No. 8779, filed on August 7, 2013; (5) Desai v. CapitalSource Inc. et al., Case No. 8804, filed on August 13, 2013; and (6) Fattore v. CapitalSource Inc. et al., Case No. 8927, filed on September 19, 2013, referred to as the Delaware actions. The merger litigations allege variously that the members of the CapitalSource board of directors breached its fiduciary duties to CapitalSource stockholders by approving the CapitalSource merger for inadequate consideration; approving the transaction in order to obtain benefits not equally shared by other CapitalSource stockholders; entering into the CapitalSource merger agreement containing preclusive deal protection devices; failing to take steps to maximize the value to be paid to the CapitalSource stockholders; and failing to disclose material information regarding the proposed transaction. Each of the merger litigations also alleges claims against CapitalSource and PacWest for aiding and abetting these alleged breaches of fiduciary duties. Plaintiffs generally seek, among other things, declaratory and injunctive relief concerning the alleged breaches of fiduciary duties, injunctive relief prohibiting consummation of the CapitalSource merger, rescission, an accounting by defendants, damages and attorneys' fees and costs, and other and further relief. On December 20, 2013, the parties in the California and Delaware actions entered into a Memorandum of Understanding setting forth the terms of an agreement in principle to settle both the California and Delaware Actions, subject to certain conditions and future occurrences. A further status conference is set in the California Actions for May 5, 2014. The Company expects to appear in the Delaware actions for Court approval in the event a settlement is finalized by the parties. At this stage, it is not possible to predict the outcome of the proceedings or their impact on CapitalSource or the Company. If final settlement is not reached and the plaintiffs are successful in enjoining the consummation of the CapitalSource merger, the lawsuit may prevent the CapitalSource merger from becoming effective within the expected timeframe (or at all). The Company may not be able to realize the Company's and CapitalSource's deferred income tax assets. CapitalSource has substantial operating losses for federal and state income tax purposes that can generally be utilized to offset future taxable income of CapitalSource, and, under certain circumstances, the Company after the consummation of the CapitalSource merger. 38 Table of Contents If CapitalSource or the combined company were to undergo a change in ownership of more than 50% of its capital stock over a three-year period as measured under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, the ability to utilize such net operating loss carryforwards and other tax attributes to offset future taxable income would be substantially limited. The annual limit would generally equal the product of the applicable long term tax exempt interest rate and the value of the relevant entity's capital stock immediately before the ownership change. These changes of ownership rules generally focus on ownership changes involving stockholders owning directly or indirectly 5% or more of a company's outstanding stock, including certain public groups of stockholders as set forth under Section 382, and those arising from new stock issuances and other equity transactions. The determination of whether an ownership change occurs is complex and not entirely within CapitalSource's or the combined company's control. To preserve CapitalSource's ability to utilize its net operating losses, CapitalSource has adopted a tax benefit preservation plan, which is triggered upon certain transfers of CapitalSource securities. The Company plans to adopt a substantially similar tax benefit preservation plan upon consummation of the merger. The tax benefit preservation plan is generally designed to deter direct and indirect acquisitions of common stock if such acquisition would result in a stockholder becoming a "5-percent shareholder" (as defined by Section 382 and the related Treasury regulations) or increases the percentage ownership of common stock that is treated as owned by an existing 5-percent shareholder. CapitalSource's and the combined company's ability to utilize NOLs to offset its future taxable income would be limited if CapitalSource or the combined company were to undergo an "ownership change" within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. Although the tax benefit preservation plans are intended to reduce the likelihood of an ownership change that could adversely affect CapitalSource or the combined company, there can be no assurance that such restrictions would prevent all transfers that could result in such an ownership change and thus no assurance can be given as to whether CapitalSource or the combined company could utilize the net operating losses to offset future taxable income. Additionally, because the tax benefit preservation plans may have the effect of restricting a stockholder's ability to dispose of or acquire the common stock of the Company, the liquidity and market value of common stock might suffer. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 