ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Ownership of our common stock involves risk. You should carefully consider, in addition to the other information set forth herein, the following risk factors. Our business has been and may continue to be adversely affected by current conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. From December 2007 through June 2009, the U.S. economy was in recession and economic recovery through 2012 has been sluggish. As a result, the global financial markets have undergone and may continue to experience pervasive and fundamental disruptions. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers' underlying financial strength. While economic conditions have recently shown signs of improvement, the sustainability of an economic recovery is uncertain as business activity across a wide range of industries continues to face difficulties due to the lack of consumer spending and sustained high levels of unemployment. A sustained weakness or further weakening in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the principal markets in which we do business could have one or more of the following adverse effects on our business: •a decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by us; •a decrease in deposit balances due to overall reductions in the accounts of customers; •a decrease in the value of our loans or other assets secured by consumer or commercial real estate; •a decrease in net interest income derived from our lending and deposit gathering activities; •an impairment of certain intangible assets; or •an increase in the number of borrowers who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to us. An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs and provision for credit losses. Overall, the economic downturn has had an adverse effect on our business, and there can be no assurance that an economic recovery will be sustainable in the near term. Until conditions improve, we expect our business, financial condition and results of operations to be adversely affected. Changes in economic conditions, in particular a worsening of the economic slowdown in Southern California, could materially and adversely affect our business. Our business is directly impacted by factors such as economic, political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, and changes in government monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond our control. The current economic conditions have caused a lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. These circumstances may lead to an increase in nonaccrual and classified loans, which generally results in a provision for credit losses and in turn reduces the Company's net earnings. The State of California has recently experienced significant fiscal challenges, of which the long-term effects on the State's economy cannot be predicted. A further deterioration in the economic conditions, whether caused by national or local concerns, could materially and adversely affect our business. In particular, further deterioration of the economic conditions in Southern California could result in the following consequences, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business: loan delinquencies may increase; problem assets and foreclosures may increase; 27 Table of Contents demand for our products and services may decrease; low cost or noninterest bearing deposits may decrease; and collateral for loans made by us, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing customers' borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our existing loans. Until conditions provide for sustained improvement, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Further disruptions in the real estate market could materially and adversely affect our business. In conjunction with the recent financial crisis, the real estate market experienced a slow-down due to negative economic trends and credit market disruption, the impacts of which are not yet completely known or quantified. At December 31, 2012, 67% and 4% of our total gross loans, both non-covered and covered, were comprised of real estate mortgage loans and real estate construction loans, respectively. While the real estate market has shown signs of recovery, we continue to observe in the marketplace tighter credit underwriting and higher premiums on liquidity, both of which may continue to place downward pressure on real estate values. Any further downturn in the real estate market could materially and adversely affect our business because a significant portion of our non-covered loans are secured by real estate. Our ability to recover on defaulted non-covered loans by selling the real estate collateral would then be diminished and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted non-covered loans. Substantially all of our real property collateral is located in Southern California. If there is a further decline in real estate values, especially in Southern California, the collateral for our non-covered loans would provide less security. Real estate values could be affected by, among other things, a worsening of economic conditions, an increase in foreclosures, a decline in home sale volumes, an increase in interest rates, continued high levels of unemployment, earthquakes and other natural disasters particular to California. Our business is subject to interest rate risk, and variations in interest rates may materially and adversely affect our financial performance. Changes in the interest rate environment may reduce our profits. It is expected that we will continue to realize income from the differential or "spread" between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. Net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and repricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Changes in market interest rates generally affect loan volume, loan yields, funding sources and funding costs. Our net interest spread depends on many factors that are partly or completely out of our control, including competition, federal economic monetary and fiscal policies, and general economic conditions. While an increase in the general level of interest rates may increase our loan yield, it may adversely affect the ability of certain borrowers with variable-rate loans to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations. In addition, an increase in market interest rates on loans is generally associated with a lower volume of loan originations, which may reduce earnings. Following an increase in the general level of interest rates, our ability to maintain a positive net interest spread is dependent on our ability to increase our loan offering rates, replace loan maturities with new originations, minimize increases on our deposit rates, and maintain an acceptable level and mix of funding. We cannot provide assurances that we will be able to increase our loan offering rates and continue to originate loans due to the competitive landscape in which we operate. Additionally, we cannot provide assurances that we can minimize the increases in our deposit rates while maintaining an acceptable level of deposits. Finally, we cannot provide any assurances that we can maintain our current levels of noninterest bearing deposits as customers may seek higher yielding products when rates increase. Following a decline in the general level of interest rates, our ability to maintain a positive net interest spread is dependent on our ability to reduce the interest paid on deposits, borrowings, and other interest-bearing liabilities. We cannot provide assurance that we would be able to lower the rates 28 Table of Contents paid on deposit accounts to support our liquidity requirements as lower rates may result in deposit outflows. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, loan origination volume, liquidity, and overall profitability. We cannot assure you that we can minimize our interest rate risk. We face strong competition from financial services companies and other companies that offer banking services which could materially and adversely affect our business. We conduct our banking operations primarily in Southern California. Increased competition in our market may result in reduced loans and deposits or less favorable loan and deposit terms. Ultimately, we may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Many competitors offer the same banking services that we offer in our service area. These competitors include national banks, regional banks and other community banks. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including without limitation, savings and loan institutions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries. In particular, our competitors include several major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations and ATMs and conduct extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Additionally, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions have larger lending limits and are thereby able to serve the credit needs of larger customers. Areas of competition include interest rates for loans and deposits, efforts to obtain deposits, and the range and quality of products and services provided, including new technology driven products and services. Technological innovation continues to contribute to greater competition in domestic and international financial services markets as technological advances enable more companies to provide financial services. We also face competition from out-of-state financial intermediaries that have opened production offices or that solicit deposits in our market areas. Should competition in the financial services industry intensify, our ability to market our products and services may be adversely affected. If we are unable to attract and retain banking customers, we may be unable to grow or maintain the levels of our loans and deposits and our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Competition from financial institutions seeking to maintain adequate liquidity places upward pressure on the rates paid on certain deposit accounts relative to the level of market interest rates during times of both decreasing and increasing market liquidity. To maintain both attractive and adequate levels of liquidity, without exhausting secondary sources of liquidity, we may incur increased deposit costs. Several rating agencies publish unsolicited ratings of the financial performance and relative financial health of many banks, including Pacific Western, based on publicly available data. As these ratings are publicly available, a decline in the Bank's ratings may result in deposit outflows or the inability of the Bank to raise deposits in the secondary market as broker-dealers and depositors may use such ratings in deciding where to deposit their funds. We may need to raise additional capital in the future and such capital may not be available when needed or at all. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs. As a publicly traded company, a likely source of additional funds is the capital markets, accomplished generally through the issuance of equity, both common and preferred stock, and the issuance of subordinated debentures. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at 29 Table of Contents that time, which are outside of our control, and our financial performance. The current economic conditions and the loss of confidence in financial institutions may increase our cost of funding and limit our access to some of our customary sources of liquidity, including, but not limited to, the capital markets, inter-bank borrowings, repurchase agreements and borrowings from the discount window of the FRB. We cannot assure you that access to such capital and liquidity will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt purchasers, or depositors of the Bank or counterparties participating in the capital markets, may materially and adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. An inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could have a materially adverse effect on our business. We are subject to extensive regulation which could materially and adversely affect our business. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal and state governmental authorities, and we are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of our operations. The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July 2010, instituted major changes to the banking and financial institutions regulatory regimes. Regulations affecting banks and other financial institutions, such as the Dodd-Frank Act, are undergoing continuous review and change frequently; the ultimate effect of such changes cannot be predicted. Because our business is highly regulated, compliance with such regulations and laws may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. Also, participation in specific government stabilization programs may subject us to additional restrictions. There can be no assurance that proposed laws, rules and regulations will not be adopted in the future, which could (i) make compliance much more difficult or expensive, (ii) restrict our ability to originate, broker or sell loans or accept certain deposits, (iii) further limit or restrict the amount of commissions, interest or other charges earned on loans originated or sold by us, or (iv) otherwise materially and adversely affect our business or prospects for business. The Dodd-Frank Act will have material implications for the Company and the entire financial services industry. Among other things it will or potentially could: •together with regulations implementing Basel reforms, affect the levels of capital and liquidity with which we must operate and how we plan capital and liquidity levels; •subject us to new and/or higher fees paid to various regulatory entities, including but not limited to deposit insurance fees to the FDIC; •impact our ability to invest in certain types of entities or engage in certain activities; •restrict the nature of our incentive compensation programs for executive officers; •subject us to the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, with its very broad rule-making and enforcement authorities; and •subject us to new and different litigation and regulatory enforcement risks. As the Dodd-Frank Act requires that many studies be conducted and that hundreds of regulations be written in order to fully implement it, the full impact of this legislation on us, our business strategies, and financial performance cannot be known at this time, and may not be known for a number of years. However, these impacts are expected to be substantial and some of them are likely to adversely affect us and our financial performance. The Dodd-Frank Act and related regulations may also require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes, and could therefore also adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 30 Table of Contents Additionally, in order to conduct certain activities, including acquisitions, we are required to obtain regulatory approval. There can be no assurance that any required approvals can be obtained, or obtained without conditions or on a timeframe acceptable to us. For more information, please see "Item 1. Business—Supervision and Regulation." The Dodd-Frank repeal of federal prohibitions on payment of interest on demand deposits could increase our interest expense. All federal prohibitions on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on demand deposit accounts were repealed as part of the Dodd-Frank Act. As a result, financial institutions can offer interest on demand deposits to compete for clients. Our interest expense will increase and our net interest margin will decrease if the Bank begins offering interest on demand deposits to attract additional customers or maintain current customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Emergency measures designed to stabilize the U.S. financial system are beginning to wind down. Since the middle of 2008, in addition to the programs initiated under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, other regulators have taken steps to attempt to stabilize and add liquidity to the financial markets. Some of these programs have begun to expire and the impact of the expiration of these programs on the financial industry and the economic recovery is unknown. A slowdown in or reversal of the economic recovery could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increases in or required prepayments of FDIC insurance premiums may adversely affect our earnings. Since 2008, higher levels of bank failures dramatically increased resolution costs of the FDIC and depleted the deposit insurance fund. In addition, the FDIC instituted temporary programs, some of which were made permanent by the Dodd-Frank Act, to further insure customer deposits at FDIC insured banks, which have placed additional stress on the deposit insurance fund. In order to maintain a strong funding position and restore reserve ratios of the deposit insurance fund, the FDIC has increased assessment rates of insured institutions. In addition, on November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted a rule requiring banks to prepay three years' worth of premiums to replenish the depleted insurance fund. Historically, the FDIC utilized a risk-based assessment system that imposed insurance premiums based upon a risk matrix that takes into account several components including but not limited to the bank's capital level and supervisory rating. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC amended its regulations to base insurance assessments on the average consolidated assets less the average tangible equity of the insured depository institution during the assessment period. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. Any future increases in or required prepayments of FDIC insurance premiums may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Our information systems may experience an interruption or security breach. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately 31 Table of Contents addressed. The occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability. We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title. In the course of our business, we may own or foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may not pay dividends on common stock. Our stockholders are only entitled to receive such dividends as our Board of Directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and may reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. Our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders is subject to the restrictions set forth in Delaware law, by our federal regulator, and by certain covenants contained in the indentures governing the trust preferred securities issued by us or entities we have acquired. Notification to the FRB is also required prior to our declaring and paying a cash dividend to our stockholders during any period in which our quarterly net earnings are insufficient to fund the dividend amount. We may not pay a dividend should the FRB object until such time as we receive approval from the FRB or no longer need to provide notice under applicable regulations. See "Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters—Dividends" for more information on these restrictions. In addition, we may be restricted by applicable law or regulation or actions taken by our regulators, or as a result of our participation in any specific government stabilization programs, now or in the future, from paying dividends to our stockholders. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will continue paying dividends on our common stock at current levels or at all. Our failure to pay dividends on our common stock could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. The primary source of our income from which, among other things, we pay dividends is the receipt of dividends from the Bank. We are a legal entity separate and distinct from the Bank and our other subsidiaries. The availability of dividends from the Bank is limited by various statutes and regulations. It is possible, depending upon the financial condition of the Bank and other factors, that the FRB, the FDIC and/or the DFI could assert that payment of dividends or other payments is an unsafe or unsound practice, or that such regulatory authority may impose restrictions on the Bank's ability to pay dividends as a condition to the Bank's participation in any stabilization program. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends to us, it is likely that we, in turn, would have to stop paying dividends on our common stock and may have difficulty meeting our other financial obligations, including payments in respect of any outstanding indebtedness or trust preferred securities. The inability of the Bank to pay dividends to us could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. See "Item 1. Business—Supervision and Regulation" for additional information on the regulatory restrictions to which we and the Bank are subject. 32 Table of Contents Only a limited trading market exists for our common stock which could lead to price volatility. Our common stock trades on The NASDAQ Global Select Stock Market under the symbol "PACW" and our trading volume is modest. The limited trading market for our common stock may cause fluctuations in the market value of our common stock to be exaggerated, leading to price volatility in excess of that which would occur in a more active trading market of our common stock. In addition, even if a more active market in our common stock develops, we cannot assure you that such a market will continue or that stockholders will be able to sell their shares. Our allowance for credit losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. In accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, we maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses to provide for loan and lease defaults and non-performance and a reserve for unfunded loan commitments which, when combined, we refer to as the allowance for credit losses. Our allowance for credit losses may not be adequate to address actual credit losses, and future provisions for credit losses could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Our allowance for credit losses is based on prior experience and an evaluation of the risks in the current portfolio. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. Our federal and state regulators, as an integral part of their examination process, review our loans and leases and allowance for credit losses. While we believe our allowance for credit losses is appropriate for the risk identified in the Company's loan and lease portfolio, we cannot assure you that we will not further increase the allowance for credit losses, that it will be sufficient to address losses, or that regulators will not require us to increase this allowance. Any of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect our earnings. See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for more information. Our acquisitions may subject us to unknown risks. We have completed 25 acquisitions since May 2000, including the APB, Celtic, and EQF acquisitions in 2012 and the FDIC-assisted acquisitions of Los Padres in August 2010 and Affinity in August 2009. Certain events may arise after the date of an acquisition, or we may learn of certain facts, events or circumstances after the closing of an acquisition, that may affect our financial condition or performance or subject us to risk of loss. These events include, but are not limited to: litigation resulting from circumstances occurring at the acquired entity prior to the date of acquisition; loan downgrades and credit loss provisions resulting from underwriting of certain acquired loans determined not to meet our credit standards; personnel changes that cause instability within a department; delays in implementing new policies or procedures or the failure to apply new policies or procedures; and other events relating to the performance of our business. Acquisitions involve inherent uncertainty and we cannot determine all potential events, facts and circumstances that could result in loss or give assurances that our investigation or mitigation efforts will be sufficient to protect against any such loss. We are dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel may materially and adversely affect our prospects. We currently depend heavily on the services of our chairman, John Eggemeyer, our chief executive officer, Matthew Wagner, and a number of other key management personnel. The loss of Mr. Eggemeyer's or Mr. Wagner's services or that of other key personnel could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our success also depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain additional qualified management personnel. Competition for such personnel is strong in the banking industry, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining the personnel we require. 33 Table of Contents Concentrated ownership of our common stock creates a risk of sudden changes in our share price. As of February 19, 2013, directors and members of our executive management team owned or controlled approximately 5% of our common stock, excluding shares that may be issued to executive officers upon vesting of restricted stock awards. Investors who purchase our common stock may be subject to certain risks due to the concentrated ownership of our common stock. The sale by any of our large stockholders of a significant portion of that stockholder's holdings could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the registration of any significant amount of additional shares of our common stock will have the immediate effect of increasing the public float of our common stock and any such increase may cause the market price of our common stock to decline or fluctuate significantly. Our largest stockholder is a registered bank holding company, and the activities and regulation of such stockholder may materially and adversely affect the permissible activities of the Company. CapGen Capital Group II LP, which we refer to as CapGen, beneficially owned approximately 11% of the Company as of February 19, 2013. CapGen is a registered bank holding company under the BHCA and is regulated by the FRB. Under the Dodd-Frank Act and related regulations, bank holding companies must be a "source of strength" for their subsidiaries. See "Item 1. Business—Supervision and Regulation—Bank Holding Company Regulation" for more information. Regulation of CapGen by the FRB may materially and adversely affect the activities and strategic plans of the Company should the FRB determine that CapGen or any other company in which either has invested has engaged in any unsafe or unsound banking practices or activities. While we have no reason to believe that the FRB is proposing to take any action with respect to CapGen that would adversely affect the Company, we remain subject to such risk. A natural disaster could harm the Company's business. Historically, California, in which a substantial portion of our business is located, has been susceptible to natural disasters, such as earthquakes, floods and wild fires. The nature and level of natural disasters cannot be predicted and may be exacerbated by global climate change. These natural disasters could harm our operations through interference with communications, including the interruption or loss of our computer systems, which could prevent or impede the Company from gathering deposits, originating loans and processing and controlling its flow of business, as well as through the destruction of facilities and our operational, financial and management information systems. Additionally, natural disasters could negatively impact the values of collateral securing our loans and interrupt our borrowers' abilities to conduct their business in a manner to support their debt obligations, either of which could result in losses and increased provisions for credit losses. Our decisions regarding the fair value of assets acquired, including the realization of the FDIC loss sharing asset, could be inaccurate which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and future prospects. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of acquired loans, including the creditworthiness of borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of secured loans. In FDIC-assisted acquisitions that include loss sharing agreements, we may record a loss sharing asset that we consider adequate to absorb future losses which may occur in the acquired loan portfolio. In determining the realization of the loss sharing asset, we analyze the expected cash flows, volume and classification of loans, volume and trends in delinquencies and nonaccruals, local economic conditions, and other pertinent information. If our assumptions are incorrect, the balance of the FDIC loss sharing asset may at any time be subject to accelerated amortization or insufficient to cover future loan losses. Any increase in future losses on loans and other assets covered by loss sharing agreements could have a negative effect on our operating results. Any 34 Table of Contents decrease in the expected cash flows from the FDIC could have a negative effect on our operating results. Our ability to obtain reimbursement under the loss sharing agreements on covered assets depends on our compliance with the terms of the loss sharing agreements. Management must certify to the FDIC on a quarterly basis our compliance with the terms of the FDIC loss sharing agreements as a prerequisite to obtaining reimbursement from the FDIC for realized losses on covered assets. The required terms of the agreements are extensive and failure to comply with any of the guidelines could result in a specific asset or group of assets temporarily or permanently losing their loss sharing coverage. Additionally, management may decide to forgo loss share coverage on certain assets to allow greater flexibility over the management of certain assets. As of December 31, 2012, $584.8 million, or 10.7%, of the Company's assets, were covered by FDIC loss sharing agreements. Under the terms of the FDIC loss sharing agreements, the assignment or transfer of the loss sharing agreement to another entity generally requires the written consent of the FDIC. Based on the manner in which assignment is defined in the agreements, each of the following requires the prior written consent of the FDIC for the loss sharing agreements to continue: 1.a merger or consolidation of the Bank with and into another financial institution; 2.the sale of all or substantially all of the Bank's assets to another financial institution; and 3.with respect to covered assets acquired in the Affinity acquisition, for a period of 36 months after the August 28, 2009 acquisition date a.the sale by any individual stockholder, or stockholders acting in concert, of more than 9% of the outstanding shares of either the Bank or the Company; b.the sale of shares by the Bank or the Company in a public or private offering that increases the number of shares outstanding of either the Bank or the Company by more than 9%. No assurances can be given that we will manage the covered assets in such a way as to always maintain loss share coverage on all such assets. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 