ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Ownership of our common stock involves risk. You should carefully consider, in addition to the other information set forth herein, the following risk factors. Our business has been and may continue to be adversely affected by current conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing unprecedented levels of volatility and disruption for more than 12 months. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers' underlying financial strength. As a consequence of the current recession in the United States, business activity across a wide range of industries faces serious difficulties due to the lack of consumer spending and the extreme lack of liquidity in the global credit markets. Unemployment has also increased significantly. 20 Table of Contents A sustained weakness or weakening in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the principal markets in which we do business could have one or more of the following adverse effects on our business: •a decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by us; •a decrease in deposit balances due to overall reductions in the accounts of customers; •a decrease in the value of our loans or other assets secured by consumer or commercial real estate; •an impairment of certain intangible assets; or •an increase in the number of borrowers who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to us. An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs and provision for credit losses. Overall, during the past year, the general business environment has had an adverse effect on our business, and there can be no assurance that the environment will improve in the near term. Until conditions improve, we expect our business, financial condition and results of operations to be adversely affected. Changes in economic conditions, in particular a worsening of the economic slowdown in Southern California, could materially and adversely affect our business. Our business is directly impacted by factors such as economic, political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, and changes in government monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond our control. The current economic conditions have caused a lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. These circumstances may continue to lead to an increase in nonaccrual and classified loans, which generally results in a provision for credit losses and in turn reduces the Company's net earnings. The State of California continues to face fiscal challenges, the long-term effects of which on the State's economy cannot be predicted. A further deterioration in the economic conditions, whether caused by national or local concerns, as discussed above, could materially and adversely affect our business, in particular a continued deterioration of the economic conditions in Southern California could result in the following consequences, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business: loan delinquencies may increase; problem assets and foreclosures may increase; demand for our products and services may decrease; low cost or noninterest bearing deposits may decrease; and collateral for loans made by us, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing customers' borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our existing loans. Until conditions improve, we expect our business, financial condition and results of operations to be adversely affected. Our business is subject to interest rate risk, and variations in interest rates may materially and adversely affect our financial performance. Changes in the interest rate environment may reduce our profits. It is expected that we will continue to realize income from the differential or "spread" between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest bearing liabilities. Net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and repricing characteristics of interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities. Changes in market interest rates generally affect loan volume, loan yields, funding sources and funding costs. Our net interest spread depends on many factors that are partly or completely out of our control, including competition, federal economic monetary and fiscal policies, and general economic conditions. 21 Table of Contents While an increase in the general level of interest rates may increase our net interest margin and loan yield, it may adversely affect the ability of certain borrowers with variable rate loans to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations. In addition, an increase in market interest rates on loans is generally associated with a lower volume of loan originations, which may reduce earnings. Following a decline in the general level of interest rates, our ability to maintain a positive net interest spread is dependent on our ability to reduce the interest paid on deposits, borrowings, and other interest bearing liabilities. We cannot provide assurance that we would be able to lower the rates paid on deposit accounts to support our liquidity requirements as lower rates may result in deposit outflows. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, loan origination volume, liquidity, and overall profitability. We cannot assure you that we can minimize our interest rate risk. We face strong competition from financial services companies and other companies that offer banking services which could materially and adversely affect our business. We conduct our banking operations primarily in Southern California. Increased competition in our market may result in reduced loans and deposits. Ultimately, we may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Many competitors offer the same banking services that we offer in our service area. These competitors include national banks, regional banks and other community banks. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including without limitation, savings and loan institutions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries. In particular, our competitors include several major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations and ATMs and conduct extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Additionally, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions have larger lending limits and are thereby able to serve the credit needs of larger customers. Areas of competition include interest rates for loans and deposits, efforts to obtain deposits, and range and quality of products and services provided, including new technology driven products and services. Technological innovation continues to contribute to greater competition in domestic and international financial services markets as technological advances enable more companies to provide financial services. We also face competition from out-of-state financial intermediaries that have opened production offices or that solicit deposits in our market areas. Additionally, we expect competition to intensify among financial services companies due to the recent consolidation of certain competing financial institutions and the conversion of certain investment banks to bank holding companies. Should competition in the financial services industry intensify, our ability to market our products and services may be adversely affected. If we are unable to attract and retain banking customers, we may be unable to grow the levels of our loans and deposits and our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. The disruption in the credit markets has had the effect of decreasing the overall liquidity in the marketplace. Competition from financial institutions seeking to maintain adequate liquidity has placed upward pressure on the rates paid on certain deposit accounts at the same time the level of market interest rates has declined. To maintain adequate levels of liquidity, without exhausting secondary sources of liquidity, we may incur increased deposit costs. Several rating agencies publish unsolicited ratings of the financial performance and relative financial health of many banks, including Pacific Western, based on publicly available data. As these ratings are publicly available, a decline in the Bank's ratings may result in deposit outflows or the inability of the Bank to raise deposits in the secondary market as broker-dealers and depositors may use such ratings in deciding where to deposit their funds. 22 Table of Contents The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Since mid-2007, the financial services industry as a whole, and the securities markets generally, have been materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity in the marketplace. Financial institutions in particular have been subject to increased volatility and an overall loss in investor confidence. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services companies are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services companies, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit and counterparty risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or other exposure due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Further disruptions in the real estate market could materially and adversely affect our business. There has been a slow-down in the real estate market due to negative economic trends and credit market disruption, the impacts of which are not yet completely known or quantified. At December 31, 2008, 56% of our loans were secured by commercial real estate, 9% were secured by commercial real estate construction projects, 6% were secured by residential real estate construction projects and 6% were secured by residential real estate. We have observed tighter credit underwriting and higher premiums on liquidity, both of which may continue to place downward pressure on real estate values. Any further downturn in the real estate market could materially and adversely affect our business because a significant portion of our loans is secured by real estate. Our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral would then be diminished and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. Substantially all of our real property collateral is located in Southern California. If there is a further decline in real estate values, especially in Southern California, the collateral for our loans would provide less security. Real estate values could be affected by, among other things, a worsening of the economic conditions, an increase in foreclosures, a decline in home sale volumes, an increase in interest rates, earthquakes and other natural disasters particular to California. We may need to raise additional capital in the future and such capital may not be available when needed or at all. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs. As a publicly traded company we have access to the capital markets to raise funds, which is accomplished generally through the issuance of equity, both common and preferred stock, and the issuance of subordinated debentures. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and our financial performance. The ongoing liquidity crisis and the loss of confidence in financial institutions may increase our cost of funding and limit our access to some of our customary sources of liquidity, including, but not limited to, inter-bank borrowings, repurchase agreements and borrowings from the discount window of the Federal Reserve. 23 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that access to such capital and liquidity will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt purchasers, or depositors of the Bank or counterparties participating in the capital markets may materially and adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. An inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could have a materially adverse effect on our business. We are dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel may materially and adversely affect our prospects. We currently depend heavily on the services of our chairman, John Eggemeyer, our chief executive officer, Matthew Wagner, and a number of other key management personnel. The loss of Mr. Eggemeyer's or Mr. Wagner's services or that of other key personnel could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our success also depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain additional qualified management personnel. Competition for such personnel is strong in the banking industry, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining the personnel we require. We are subject to extensive regulation which could materially and adversely affect our business. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal and state governmental authorities, and we are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of our operations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and regulations applicable to us are subject to regular modification and change. Given the current disruption in the financial markets and regulatory initiatives that are likely to be proposed by the new administration and Congress, new regulations and laws that may affect us are increasingly likely. Compliance with such regulations and laws may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. Also, participation in specific government stabilization programs may subject us to additional restrictions. There can be no assurance that proposed laws, rules and regulations will not be adopted in the future, which could (i) make compliance much more difficult or expensive, (ii) restrict our ability to originate, broker or sell loans or accept certain deposits, (iii) further limit or restrict the amount of commissions, interest or other charges earned on loans originated or sold by us, or (iv) otherwise materially and adversely affect our business or prospects for business. In addition, it is likely that we will be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums in the future because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. Additionally, in order to conduct certain activities, including acquisitions, we are required to obtain regulatory approval. There can be no assurance that any required approvals can be obtained, or obtained without conditions or on a timeframe acceptable to us. For more information, please see the section entitled "Item 1. Business—Supervision and Regulation" above. There can be no assurance that the recently enacted Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 and other recently enacted government programs will help stabilize the U.S. financial system. On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the "EESA"). The legislation was the result of a proposal by the U.S. Treasury Department to the U.S. Congress on September 20, 2008 in response to the financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions. The U.S. Treasury and banking regulators are implementing a number of programs under this legislation and otherwise to address capital and liquidity issues in the banking system, including the TARP Capital Purchase Program. In addition, other regulators have taken steps to attempt to stabilize and add liquidity to the financial markets, such as the FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program 24 Table of Contents ("TLG Program"), to which we elected to participate. However, there can be no assurances that the Bank will issue any guaranteed debt under the TLG Program, that PacWest will apply for and be granted coverage of any newly issued unsecured debt, or that we will participate in any other stabilization programs in the future. There can also be no assurance as to the actual impact that the EESA and other programs will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. The failure of the EESA and other programs to stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit, or the trading price of our common stock. The EESA is relatively new legislation and, as such, is subject to change and evolving interpretation. This is particularly true given the change in the presidential administration that occurred on January 20, 2009. There can be no assurances as to the effects that such changes will have on the effectiveness of the EESA or on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are exposed to transactional, country and legal risk related to our foreign loans that is in addition to risks we face on loans to U.S. based borrowers. Approximately 1% of our loan portfolio is represented by credit we extend and loans we make to business located outside the United States, predominantly in Mexico. These loans, which include commercial loans, real estate loans and credit extensions for the financing of international trade, are subject to risks in addition to risks we face with our loans to business located in the United States including, but not limited to transaction risk, country risk and legal risk. While these loans are denominated in U.S. dollars, the ability of the borrower to repay may be affected by fluctuations in the borrower's home country currency relative to the U.S. dollar. Additionally, while most of our foreign loans are insured by U.S.-based institutions, guaranteed by a U.S.-based entity, or collateralized with U.S.-based assets or real property, our ability to collect in the event of default is subject to a number of conditions, as well as deductibles and co-payments with respect to insurance, and we may not be successful in obtaining partial or full repayment or reimbursement from the insurers. Furthermore, foreign laws may restrict our ability to foreclose on, take a security interest in, or seize collateral located in the foreign country. We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title. In the course of our business, we may own or foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our ability to pay dividends is restricted by law and contractual arrangements and depends on capital distributions from the Bank which are subject to regulatory limits. Our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders is subject to the restrictions set forth in Delaware law. In addition, our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders is restricted in specified circumstances under indentures governing the trust preferred securities we have issued and under the revolving credit 25 Table of Contents agreement to which we are a party. See "Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters—Dividends" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information on these restrictions. In addition, our participation in any specific government stabilization programs, now or in the future, may subject us to additional restrictions on our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. We cannot assure you that we will meet the criteria specified under Delaware law, these indentures or any government programs in the future, in which case we may reduce or stop paying dividends on our common stock. The primary source of our income from which we pay dividends is the receipt of dividends from the Bank. The availability of dividends from the Bank is limited by various statutes and regulations. It is possible, depending upon the financial condition of the Bank and other factors, that the FRB, the FDIC and/or the DFI could assert that payment of dividends or other payments is an unsafe or unsound practice, or that such regulatory authority may impose restrictions on the Bank's ability to pay dividends as a condition to the Bank's participation in any stabilization program. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends to us, it is likely that we, in turn, would have to reduce or stop paying dividends on our common stock. Our failure to pay dividends on our common stock could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. See "Item 1. Business—Supervision and Regulation" above for additional information on the regulatory restrictions to which we and the Bank are subject. Only a limited trading market exists for our common stock which could lead to price volatility. Our common stock trades on The NASDAQ Global Select Stock Market under the symbol "PACW" and our trading volume is modest. The limited trading market for our common stock may cause fluctuations in the market value of our common stock to be exaggerated, leading to price volatility in excess of that which would occur in a more active trading market of our common stock. In addition, even if a more active market in our common stock develops, we cannot assure you that such a market will continue or that stockholders will be able to sell their shares. Our allowance for credit losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. In accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance and a reserve for unfunded loan commitments which, when combined, we refer to as the allowance for credit losses. Our allowance for credit losses may not be adequate to cover actual credit losses, and future provisions for credit losses could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Our allowance for credit losses is based on prior experience, as well as an evaluation of the risks in the current portfolio. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. Our federal and state regulators, as an integral part of their examination process, review our loans and allowance for credit losses. While we believe our allowance for credit losses is appropriate for the risk identified in the Company's loan portfolio, we cannot assure you that we will not further increase the allowance for credit losses, that it will be sufficient to cover losses, or that regulators will not require us to increase this allowance. Any of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect our earnings. See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information. Our acquisitions may subject us to unknown risks. We have completed 20 acquisitions since May 2000, including the acquisition of two bank subsidiaries around which the Company was initially formed and the acquisition of a deposit base in November 2008. Certain events may arise after the date of an acquisition, or we may learn of certain 26 Table of Contents facts, events or circumstances after the closing of an acquisition, that may affect our financial condition or performance or subject us to risk of loss. These events include, but are not limited to: litigation resulting from circumstances occurring at the acquired entity prior to the date of acquisition; loan downgrades and credit loss provisions resulting from underwriting of certain acquired loans determined not to meet our credit standards; personnel changes that cause instability within a department; delays in implementing new policies or procedures or the failure to apply new policies or procedures; and other events relating to the performance of our business. Acquisitions involve inherent uncertainty and we cannot determine all potential events, facts and circumstances that could result in loss or give assurances that our investigation or mitigation efforts will be sufficient to protect against any such loss. Concentrated ownership of our common stock creates a risk of sudden changes in our share price. As of February 17, 2008, directors and members of our executive management team owned or controlled approximately 22% of our common stock, excluding shares that may be issued to executive officers upon vesting of restricted stock awards. Investors who purchase our common stock may be subject to certain risks due to the concentrated ownership of our common stock. The sale by any of our large shareholders of a significant portion of that stockholder's holdings could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the registration of any significant amount of additional shares of our common stock will have the immediate effect of increasing the public float of our common stock and any such increase may cause the market price of our common stock to decline or fluctuate significantly. Two of our largest stockholders are registered bank holding companies, and the activities and regulation of such stockholders may materially and adversely affect the permissible activities of the Company. Castle Creek Capital, LLC, which we refer to as Castle Creek, is controlled by our chairman, John M. Eggemeyer, and beneficially owned approximately 6% of the Company as of February 17, 2009. Castle Creek is a registered bank holding company under the BHCA and is regulated by the FRB. Additionally, on January 14, 2009, we announced the issuance of approximately $100 million of our stock to an affiliate CapGen Financial, CapGen Capital Group II LP, or CapGen, in exchange for 3,846,153 shares of our common stock. John W. Rose, a representative of CapGen, also joined the Company's Board of Directors. As of February 17, 2009, CapGen beneficially owned approximately 12% of our common stock and was also a registered bank holding company under the BHCA regulated by the FRB. Under FRB guidelines, bank holding companies must be a "source of strength" for their subsidiaries. See "Item 1. Business—Supervision and Regulation—Bank Holding Company Regulation" above for more information. Regulation of either CapGen or Castle Creek by the FRB may materially and adversely affect the activities and strategic plans of the Company should the FRB determine that CapGen, Castle Creek or any other company in which either has invested has engaged in any unsafe or unsound banking practices or activities. While we have no reason to believe that the FRB is proposing to take any action with respect to CapGen or Castle Creek that would adversely affect the Company, we remain subject to such risk. A natural disaster could harm the Company's business. Historically, California, in which a substantial portion of the Company's business is located, has been susceptible to natural disasters, such as earthquakes, floods and wild fires. These natural disasters could harm the Company's operations through interference with communications, including the interruption or loss of the Company's computer systems, which could prevent or impede the Company from gathering deposits, originating loans and processing and controlling its flow of business, as well as through the destruction of facilities and the Company's operational, financial and management information systems. Additionally, natural disasters could negatively impact the values of collateral securing the Company's loans and interrupt our borrowers' abilities to conduct their business in a 27 Table of Contents manner to support their debt obligations, either of which could result in losses and increased provisions for credit losses. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 