ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Our business involves a high degree of risk. The following paragraphs describe some of the material risks that could affect us. The markets for our services are highly competitive and we face substantial competition. The banking business is highly competitive. We compete as a financial intermediary with other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies and brokerage and investment banking firms soliciting business from residents of and businesses located in Alpharetta, Georgia and our entire primary service area, many of which have greater resources than we have. Many of our competitors enjoy competitive advantages, including greater financial resources, a wider geographic presence or more accessible branch office locations, the ability to offer additional services, more favorable pricing alternatives and lower origination and operating costs. This competition could result in a decrease in loans we originate and could negatively affect our results of operations. In attracting deposits, we compete with insured depository institutions such as banks, savings institutions and credit unions, as well as institutions offering uninsured investment alternatives, including money market funds. Traditional banking institutions, as well as entities intending to transact business solely online, are increasingly using the Internet to attract deposits without geographic or physical limitations. In addition, many non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern us. These competitors may offer higher interest rates than we offer, which could result in either attracting fewer deposits or increasing our interest rates in order to attract deposits. Increased deposit competition could increase our cost of funds and could affect adversely our ability to generate the funds necessary for our lending operations, which would negatively affect our results of operations. Changes in interest rates could have an adverse effect on our income. Our profitability depends to a large extent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investments, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Our net interest income will be adversely affected if market interest rates change so that the interest we pay on deposits and borrowings increases faster than the interest we earn on loans and investments. Changes in interest rates also can affect the value of our loans. An increase in interest rates could adversely affect borrowers’ ability to pay the principal or interest on our loans. This may lead to an increase in our non-performing assets and could have a material and negative effect on our results of operations. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply and other factors beyond our control may also affect interest rates. Fluctuations in market interest rates are neither predictable nor controllable and may have a material and negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have a significant amount of construction loans, which are subject to additional risks unique to the building industry that could negatively affect our net income. Historically, our loan portfolio has included a significant number of construction loans consisting of one-to-four family residential construction loans, commercial construction loans and land loans for residential and commercial development. As of December 31, 2006, 70% of our total loan portfolio was in acquisition and development and construction loans. In addition to the risk of nonpayment by borrowers, construction lending poses additional risks in that: • land values may decline; • developers or builders may fail to complete or develop projects; 17 Table of Contents • municipalities may place moratoriums on building; • developers may fail to sell the improved real estate; • there may be construction delays and cost overruns; • collateral may prove insufficient; or • permanent financing may not be obtained in a timely manner. Any of these conditions could negatively affect our net income and our financial condition. Because a significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate, any negative conditions affecting real estate may harm our business. A significant portion of our loan portfolio consists of commercial loans that are secured by various types of real estate as collateral, as well as real estate loans on commercial properties. Because these loans rely on real estate as collateral, either totally in the case of real estate loans or partially in the case of commercial loans secured by real estate, they are sensitive to economic conditions and interest rates. Real estate lending also presents additional credit related risks, including a borrower’s inability to pay and deterioration in the value of real estate held as collateral. If our allowance for loan losses is not adequate to cover actual losses, our net income may decrease. We are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans in a timely fashion and that collateral securing the payment of loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. Borrowers’ inability to repay their loans could erode our bank’s earnings and capital. We maintain an allowance for loan losses to cover loan defaults. We base our allowance for loan losses on various assumptions and judgments regarding the collectability of loans, including our prior experience with loan losses, as well as an evaluation of the risks in our loan portfolio. We maintain this allowance at a level we consider adequate to absorb anticipated losses. The amount of future loan losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, that may be beyond our control. Actual losses may exceed our estimates and we may have to increase the allowance for loan losses. This would cause us to increase our provision for loan losses, which would decrease our net income. Further, state and federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review our loans and our allowance for loan losses. Regulators, when reviewing our loan portfolio, may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses, which would negatively affect our net income. If economic conditions in our market areas deteriorate, our business may be negatively affected. Our success depends on the general economic conditions of the markets we serve. Our operations are concentrated in Alpharetta, Georgia. We also have branches or loan production offices in Roswell, Smyrna, Duluth, Buford, and Cumming, Georgia. If economic conditions in these markets are unfavorable or deteriorate, the number of borrowers that are unable to repay their loans on a timely basis could increase. This could lead to higher rates of loss and loan payment delinquencies. These factors could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Losing key personnel will negatively affect us. Competition for personnel is stronger in the banking industry than many other industries, and we may not be able to attract or retain the personnel we require to compete successfully. We currently depend heavily on the services of our Chief Executive Officer, Steven M. Skow, and a number of other members of our senior management team. Currently, we do not have employment contracts with any of our executive officers other then a Mr. Skow, and his contract is set to terminate in January 2008. Losing Mr. Skow’s services or those of other 18 Table of Contents members of senior management could affect us in a material and adverse way. Our success will also depend on attracting and retaining additional qualified management personnel. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. We have no current intentions to pay dividends and cannot assure that we will be able to pay dividends in the future. In addition, our ability to pay dividends is subject to regulatory limitations. We have a limited operating history. We opened for business just over six years ago. Although we have grown very rapidly, we have a relatively short operating history and we may not continue to perform as well in the future as we have in the past. We encounter technological change continually and have fewer resources than many of our competitors to invest in technological improvements. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to serving customers better, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Our success will depend in part on our ability to address our customers’ needs by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements than we have. We may not be able to implement new technology-driven products and services effectively or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. We are subject to significant government regulations, including new legislation, that affect our operations and may result in higher operating costs or increased competition for us. Our success will depend not only on competitive factors, but also on state and federal regulations affecting banks and bank holding companies generally. Regulations now affecting us may change at any time, and these changes may adversely affect our business. We are subject to extensive regulation by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Georgia Department of Banking and Finance. Supervision, regulation and examination of banks and bank holding companies by bank regulatory agencies are intended primarily for the protection of depositors rather than shareholders. These agencies examine bank holding companies and commercial banks, establish capital and other financial requirements and approve new branches, acquisitions or other changes of control. Our ability to establish new branches or make acquisitions is conditioned on receiving required regulatory approvals from the applicable regulators. We believe that changes in legislation and regulations will continue to have a significant impact on the banking industry. Although some of the legislative and regulatory changes may benefit us and our bank, others will increase our costs of doing business and could assist our competitors, some of which are not subject to similar regulation. One of the regulations affecting all publicly traded companies today is the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We have spent a considerable amount of hard and soft dollars ensuring our compliance with this Act over the past two years, and it is unknown how much we will need to spend in the future to maintain our compliance. Smaller, privately held banks in our market may not need to spend as much to comply. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 19 Table of Contents 