Risk Factors Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other documents we file with the SEC are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We may not be able to consummate our pending acquisition of PDI. In February 2006 we announced a definitive agreement to acquire Premier Devices, Inc., or PDI, by merger for consideration consisting of 7.0 million shares of our common stock, $14.0 million in cash and $6.0 million in term notes that will mature 1 year following the closing of the transaction. There are contractual conditions precedent to the transaction closing, such as no material adverse change arising with respect to either party and the delivery of audited PDI financial statements. If one or more such conditions is not met, the transaction may be delayed or may not be consummated as planned. Delays in closing or failure to close the transaction would involve, among others, the following risks: • we may not realize any of the anticipated benefits of the proposed acquisition; • we would remain liable for significant transaction costs we have incurred, including legal, accounting, financial advisory and other costs relating to the acquisition, whether or not it is consummated; • there may be related litigation or declines in our stock price; and • our business and operations may be harmed to the extent customers, suppliers and others believe that we cannot effectively compete in the marketplace without the acquisition or there is customer or employee uncertainty surrounding the future of our products or strategy. If we do finalize our acquisition of PDI, the acquisition may not be successfully integrated or produce the results we anticipate. The PDI acquisition will be the largest Sirenza has ever undertaken by many metrics, including the dollar value paid, the size, complexity, number of locations and geographic footprint of the operations to be integrated, and the number of employees that will join us, which we expect will roughly triple our existing employee base. It is also our first acquisition involving international operations, as most of PDI’s employees and manufacturing are based in Shanghai and Nuremberg. We expect that the integration of PDI’s operations with our own will be a complex, time-consuming and costly process involving each of the typical acquisition risks we discuss below in our risk factor entitled “We expect to make future acquisitions, which involve numerous risks.” In addition we will face, among others, the following related challenges and risks: • operating a much larger combined company with operations in China and Germany, where we have limited operational experience; • managing personnel with diverse cultural backgrounds and organizational structures; • the greater cash management, exchange rate and income taxation risks associated with the combined company’s new multinational character and the movement of cash between Sirenza and its domestic and foreign subsidiaries; • managing the lower cash balance we will have immediately following the payment of the purchase price at closing while attempting to integrate and grow the combined company; • assessing and maintaining the combined company’s internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures as required by U.S. securities laws; • increased professional adviser fees related to the new profile of the combined company; • unanticipated expenses or tax, environmental or other liabilities associated with the acquired business or its facilities; • possible related restructuring expense, severance pay, and charges to earnings from the elimination of redundancies; • increased difficulty in financial forecasting for the new combined operation due to unfamiliarity with PDI’s operations, customers and markets or their impact on the overall results of operations of the combined company. 5 Table of Contents Failure to successfully address one or more of the above risks may result in unanticipated liabilities, lower than expected net revenue, losses from operations, failure to realize any of the expected benefits of the acquisition, and /or related declines in our stock price. We have a history of significant operating losses. If we are unable to increase our gross profit sufficiently to offset our operating expenses, we may be unable to maintain our profitability. Although our income from operations approximated $1.2 million for 2005 and $186,000 for 2004, we incurred significant losses from operations in each of the preceding two fiscal years. Losses from operations approximated $6.7 million in 2003 and $11.4 million in 2002. As of December 31, 2005, our accumulated deficit was approximately $87.7 million. It is possible that we will not generate a sufficient level of gross profit to maintain our profitability. Our gross profit depends on a number of factors, some of which are not within our control, including: • changes in our product mix and in the markets in which our products are sold, and particularly in the relative mix of IC, satellite antennae and MCM products sold; • changes in the relative percentage of products sold through distributors as compared to direct sales; • the cost, quality and efficiency of outsourced manufacturing, packaging and testing services used in producing our products; and • the cost of raw materials used in producing our products. As a result of these factors, we may be unable to maintain or increase our gross profit in future periods. If we are unable to increase our gross profit sufficiently to offset our operating expenses, we may be unable to maintain our profitability. Even if we do achieve significant gross profit from our product sales, our operating expenses may increase over the next several quarters, as we may, among other things: • expand our selling and marketing activities; • integrate the PDI acquisition; • experience increases in general and administrative expense related to corporate governance and accounting rule pronouncements or potential or completed acquisition, capital raising or other strategic transactions; and • increase our research and development activities for both existing and new products and technologies. As a result, we may need to significantly increase our gross profit to the extent we experience an increase in operating expenses. We may be unable to do so, and therefore, we cannot be certain that we will be able to achieve profitability in current or future periods. Our operating results will fluctuate and we may not meet quarterly financial expectations, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly operating results have varied significantly in the past and are likely to vary significantly in the future based upon a number of factors, many of which we have little or no control over. Factors that could cause our operating results to fluctuate include: • the reduction, rescheduling or cancellation of orders by customers, whether as a result of slowing demand for our products or our customers’ products, over-ordering of our products or otherwise; • general economic growth or decline; • fluctuations in manufacturing output, yields, quality control or other potential problems or delays we or our subcontractors may experience in the fabrication, assembly, testing or delivery of our products; • telecommunications, consumer or A&D industry conditions generally and demand for products containing RF components specifically; • the timing and success of new product and technology introductions by us or our customers or competitors; • the effects of changes in accounting standards, in particular the increased expense we anticipate we will recognize related to equity awards in future periods based on our 2006 adoption of SFAS123R; • market acceptance of our products; • availability, quality and cost of raw materials, components, semiconductor wafers and internal or outsourced manufacturing, packaging and test capacity; • changes in customer purchasing cycles and component inventory levels; • changes in selling prices for our RF components due to competitive or currency exchange rate pressures; • the gain or loss of a key customer or significant changes in the financial condition of one or more key customers; • amounts and timing of investments in R&D; • costs associated with acquisitions and the integration of acquired companies; • impairment charges associated with our intangible assets, including our investment in GCS; • factors affecting our reported domestic and foreign income taxes and income tax rate; and • the effects of war, acts of terrorism or global threats, such as disruption in general economic activity, and the effects on the economy and our business due to increasing oil prices. The occurrence of these and other factors could cause us to fail to meet quarterly financial expectations, which could cause our stock price to decline. For example, in the first quarter of 2005 and the fourth quarter of 2004, our financial results were below investment community expectations, in part due to rescheduling of customer orders, and our stock price subsequently declined. 6 Table of Contents Our gross margin will fluctuate from period to period, and such fluctuation could affect our financial performance, particularly earnings and/or loss per share, in turn potentially decreasing our stock price. Numerous factors will cause our gross margin to fluctuate from period to period. For example, the gross margin on sales to our large OEM customers has historically been lower than on sales through our distribution channel or sales to some of our smaller direct customers, primarily due to the bargaining power attendant with large OEM customers and their higher product volumes. If, as we expect, these large OEMs continue to account for a majority of our net revenues for the foreseeable future, the continuance of this trend will likely have a negative impact on our gross margins in future periods. In addition, sales of our IC products have historically yielded a higher gross margin than our MCM products. Therefore, increased sales of MCM products in a given period will likely have a negative effect on our gross margin. In addition, sales of certain of our recently acquired broadband products, in particular satellite radio antennas, have historically had lower gross margins than sales of our wireless infrastructure products. Therefore, increased sales of satellite radio antenna products in a given period will likely have a negative effect on our gross margin. In 2005, sales of antennae products increased significantly as a percentage of our total sales, which had a negative effect on our gross margin. Although gross margin differs from product to product, PDI’s gross margin in prior periods has generally been lower than Sirenza’s, and we expect most PDI product gross margins to be lower than our reported gross margin in recent periods, which will likely result in lower gross margins for some time following the closing of the acquisition than we have historically achieved. Other factors that could cause our gross margin to fluctuate include the features of the products we sell, the markets into which we sell our products, the level of integration of our products, the efficiency and effectiveness of our internal and outsourced manufacturing, packaging and test operations, product quality issues, provisions for excess inventories and sales of previously written-down inventories. As a result of these or other factors, we may be unable to maintain or increase our gross margin in future periods. Our results may suffer if we are not able to accurately forecast demand for our products. Our business is characterized by short-term orders and shipment schedules. Customer orders can typically be cancelled or rescheduled without significant penalty to the customer. Because we do not have substantial non-cancelable backlog, we typically plan our production and inventory levels based on internal forecasts of customer demand, which can be highly unpredictable and can fluctuate substantially. During periods of industry downturn such as we have experienced in the past, customer order lead times and our resulting order backlog typically shrink even further, making it more difficult for us to forecast production levels, capacity and net revenues. We frequently find it difficult to accurately predict future demand in the markets we serve, making it more difficult to estimate requirements for production capacity. If we are unable to plan inventory and production levels effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. From time to time, in response to anticipated long lead times to obtain inventory and materials from our outside suppliers and foundries, we may order materials in advance of customer demand. This advance ordering has in the past and may in the future result in excess inventory levels or unanticipated inventory write-downs if expected orders fail to materialize, or other factors make our products less saleable. We depend on a relatively small number of customers for a significant portion of our net revenues. The loss of any of these customers could adversely affect our net revenues. A relatively small number of customers account for a significant portion of our net revenues in any particular period. For example, in 2005, Motorola, Sirius and Nokia individually accounted for, directly or indirectly, more than 10% of our net revenues and our top ten customers accounted for approximately 70% of net revenues. While we do enter into long-term supply agreements with customers from time to time, these contracts typically do not require the customer to buy any minimum amount of our products, and orders are typically handled on a purchase order by purchase order basis. The loss of any one of these customers could limit our ability to sustain and grow our net revenues. If the satellite radio market does not grow or grows at a slow rate, or if our relationship with Sirius weakens, our results of operations may suffer. More than 10% of our net revenues in 2005 has been based on growth in the consumer satellite radio market generally, and growth in the subscriber base of Sirius Satellite Radio in particular. We cannot assure you that the market for satellite radio will grow in the future, or that the Sirius subscriber base will increase. Further, we compete with a number of established producers of satellite radio antennae and related equipment for sales to Sirius. Sirius periodically introduces new products and new generations of existing products, including satellite radio antennas, and there can be no guarantee that we will continue to successfully compete to supply such products to Sirius and its contract manufacturers on favorable terms or at all. If the satellite radio market in general or Sirius’ business in particular does not grow or experiences a downturn, or if we fail to compete successfully for Sirius business at any point, our revenues may fail to grow or be materially reduced, and our stock price may decline. Our growth depends on the growth of the wireless and wireline communications infrastructure market. If this market does not grow, or if it grows at a slow rate, demand for our products may fail to grow or diminish. Our growth will depend on the growth of the telecommunications industry in general and, in particular, the market for wireless and wireline infrastructure components. We cannot assure you that the market for these products will grow at all. If the market does not grow or experiences a downturn, our revenues may be materially reduced. In the past, there have been reductions throughout the worldwide telecommunications industry in component inventory levels and equipment production volumes, and delays in the build-out of new wireless and wireline infrastructure. These events have had an adverse effect on our operations and caused us, in the past, to lower our previously announced expectations for our financial results, which caused the market price of our common stock to decrease. The occurrence of the events described above could result in lower or erratic sales for our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A substantial portion of our net revenues are currently derived from sales of components for wireless infrastructure applications. PDI has a strong presence in the cable television infrastructure market. As a result, downturns in either the wireline or the wireless communications market, such as the significant downturn beginning in 2001, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Sales of our products have been affected by a pattern of product price decline, which can harm our business. The market for our wireless communications products is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, product obsolescence, and significant price competition, and, as a result, is subject to regular decreases in product average selling prices over time. We are unable to predict future prices for our products, but we expect that prices for products that we sell to our large wireless and wireline infrastructure OEM customers in particular, who we expect to continue to account for a majority of our net revenues for the foreseeable future, will continue to be subject to downward pressure. These OEMs continue to require components from their suppliers, including us, to deliver improved performance at lower prices. We also anticipate that a similar pattern may develop in our sales of satellite radio antennas and related products, although these products are at an earlier stage in their life cycle than many of our traditional wireless infrastructure products. Accordingly, our ability to maintain or increase net revenues will be dependent on our ability to increase unit sales volumes of existing products and to successfully develop, introduce and sell new products with higher prices into both the wireless infrastructure and other markets. We are also making a significant effort to develop new sales channels and customer bases in which we hope price competition will not be as significant. There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop significant new customers with less price sensitivity, increase unit sales volumes of existing products, or develop, introduce and/or sell new products not affected by a pattern of steady average selling price declines. 7 Table of Contents The declining selling prices we have experienced in the past and the pricing pressure we continue to face have also negatively affected and may in the future negatively affect our gross margins. To maintain or increase our gross margins, we must continue to meet our customers’ design and performance needs while reducing our costs through efficient raw material and outsourced service procurement and process and product improvements. Even if we are able to increase unit sales volumes and reduce our costs per unit, there can be no assurance that we would be able to maintain or increase net revenues or profits. Product quality, performance and reliability problems could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and results of operations. Our customers demand that our products meet stringent quality, reliability and performance standards. Despite standard testing performed by us, our suppliers and our customers, RF components such as those we produce may contain undetected defects or flaws that may only be discovered after commencement of commercial shipments. As a result, defects or failures have in the past, and may in the future impact our product quality, performance and reliability, leading to: • loss of net revenues and gross profit, and lower margins; • delays in, or cancellations or rescheduling of, orders or shipments; • loss of, or delays in, market acceptance of our products; • significant expenditures of capital and resources to resolve such problems; • other costs including inventory write-offs and costs associated with customer support; • product returns, discounts, credits issued, or cash payments to resolve such problems; • diversion of technical and other resources from our other development efforts; • warranty and product liability claims, lawsuits and liability for damages caused by such defects; and • loss of customers, or loss of credibility with our current and prospective customers. New accounting standards related to equity compensation are expected to adversely affect our earnings and could have other adverse impacts. We have historically used stock options as a fundamental component of our employee compensation packages. We believe that our employee equity plans are an essential tool to link the long-term interests of stockholders and employees, especially executive management, and serve to motivate our employees to make decisions that will, in the long run, give the best returns to stockholders. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) has announced changes to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States that will require us to record a charge to earnings for employee stock option grants and other equity awards for all future periods beginning on January 1, 2006. We expect that the adoption of this standard will significantly reduce our net income and earnings per share in future periods. Lower earnings may cause our stock price to fall and may affect our ability to raise capital on acceptable terms. The new accounting standards will make it more expensive for us to grant options and other equity awards to employees in the future, and are already driving changes in our equity compensation strategy. An example would be our recently reduced use of option grants in favor of restricted stock purchase rights, for which the calculation of related compensation expense is more predictable. There is a limited supply of such grants available under our current equity plans, and we may need to increase our ability to make such grants or other equity incentives, or increase other forms of compensation, to adequately motivate and retain our employees. These efforts may be viewed as dilutive to our stockholders or may increase our compensation costs, and if such efforts are unsuccessful, we may have difficulty attracting, retaining and motivating employees. Our strategic investment in GCS, a privately held semiconductor foundry, could be further impaired or never redeemed, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations In the first quarter of 2002, we invested $7.5 million in GCS, a privately held semiconductor foundry. We regularly evaluate our investment in GCS to determine if an other-than-temporary decline in value has occurred. Factors that may cause an other-than-temporary decline in the value of our investment in GCS would include, but not be limited to, a degradation of the general business environment in which GCS operates, the failure of GCS to achieve certain performance milestones, a series of operating losses in excess of GCS’ business plan, the inability of GCS to continue as a going concern or a reduced valuation as determined by a new financing event. If we determine that an other-than-temporary decline in value has occurred, we will write-down our investment in GCS to its estimated fair value. Such a write-down could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations in the period in which it occurs. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2004 and 2002, we wrote down the value of our investment in GCS by approximately $1.5 million and $2.9 million, respectively, after determining that GCS had experienced an other-than-temporary decline in value. The ultimate realization of our investment in GCS will be dependent on the occurrence of a liquidity event for GCS, and/or our ability to sell our GCS shares, for which there is no public market. The likelihood of any of these events occurring will depend on, among other things, market conditions surrounding the wireless communications industry and the related semiconductor foundry industry, as well as the public markets’ receptivity to liquidity events such as initial public offerings or merger and acquisition activities. Even if we are able to sell these shares, the sale price may be less than our carrying value, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Our reliance on foreign suppliers and manufacturers and our pending acquisition of PDI exposes us to the economic and political risks of the countries in which they are located. Independent third parties in other countries, primarily in Thailand, Malaysia, South Korea, Taiwan and the Philippines, package substantially all of our semiconductor products. In addition, all of our satellite antennae manufacturing is outsourced to a subcontractor in the Philippines, and we obtain some of our semiconductor wafers from one supplier located in Germany. Due to our reliance on foreign suppliers and packagers, we are subject to the risks of conducting business outside the United States. Our pending acquisition of PDI would also expose us to risks of conducting sizeable manufacturing operations in China and Germany. These risks include: • unexpected changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements; • shipment delays, including delays resulting from difficulty in obtaining export licenses; • tariffs and other trade barriers and restrictions; • political, social and economic instability; and • potential hostilities and changes in diplomatic and trade relationships. The Chinese legal system lacks transparency, which gives the Chinese central and local government authorities a higher degree of control over business in China than is customary in the United States and makes the process of obtaining necessary regulatory approval in China inherently somewhat unpredictable. In addition, the protection accorded our proprietary technology and know-how under both the Chinese and German legal systems is not as strong as in the United States and, as a result, we may lose valuable trade secrets and competitive advantage. Also, manufacturing our products and utilizing contract manufacturers, as well as other suppliers 8 Table of Contents throughout the Asia region, exposes our business to the risk that our proprietary technology and ownership rights may not be protected or enforced to the extent that they may be in the United States. The cost of doing business in Germany can be higher than in the U.S. due to German legal requirements regarding employee benefits and employer-employee relations, in particular. Although the Chinese government has been pursuing economic reform and a policy of welcoming foreign investments, it is possible that the Chinese government will change its current policies in the future, making continued business operations in China difficult or unprofitable. In addition, we currently transact business with our foreign suppliers and packagers in U.S. dollars. Consequently, if the currencies of our suppliers’ countries were to increase in value against the U.S. dollar, our suppliers may attempt to raise the cost of our semiconductor wafers, packaging materials and services, and other materials, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We expect the acquisition of PDI to materially increase our risks from conducting business outside the U.S., both due to their substantial operations in China and Germany, and their higher proportion of sales and expenses denominated in foreign currency, which will increase our exposure to the risk of exchange rate fluctuations. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could adversely affect our business and the market price of our stock. Pursuant to rules adopted by the SEC implementing Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to assess the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and provide a management report on our internal controls over financial reporting in all annual reports. While we currently believe our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, we are required to comply with Section 404 on an annual basis. If, in the future, we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting during this continuous evaluation process, our management will be unable to assert such internal controls are effective. Although we currently anticipate being able to continue to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 in a timely fashion, we cannot be certain as to the timing of completion for our future evaluation, testing and any required remediation. If we are unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective in the future, or if our auditors are unable to attest that our management’s report is fairly stated or they are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would have an adverse effect on our business and the market price of our common stock. We expect to make future acquisitions, which involve numerous risks. We have in the past and will continue to evaluate potential acquisitions of, and investments in, complementary businesses, technologies, services or products, and expect to pursue such acquisitions and investments if appropriate opportunities arise. However, we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition or investment candidates in the future, or if we do identify suitable candidates, may not be able to make such acquisitions or investments on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. In the event we pursue acquisitions, we will face numerous risks including: • difficulties in integrating the personnel, operations, technology or products and service offerings of the acquired company; • diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business; • difficulties in entering markets where competitors have stronger market positions; • difficulties in managing and integrating operations in geographically dispersed locations; • difficulties in improving the internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures and financial reporting capabilities of any acquired operations (particularly foreign and formerly private operations) as needed to meet the high standards U.S. public companies are held to in this regard; • the loss of any key personnel of the acquired company as well as their know-how, relationships and expertise; • maintaining customer, supplier or other favorable business relationships of acquired operations; • insufficient net revenues to offset increased expenses associated with any abandoned or realized acquisitions; and • additional expense associated with amortization or depreciation of acquired tangible and intangible assets. Even if a proposed acquisition or alliance is successfully realized and integrated, we may not receive the expected benefits or synergies of the transaction. Past transactions have resulted, and future transactions may result, in significant costs and expenses and charges to earnings. The accounting treatment for any acquisition may result in significant goodwill, which, if impaired, will negatively affect our consolidated results of operations. The accounting treatment for any acquisition may also result in significant in-process research and development charges, which will negatively affect our consolidated results of operations in the period in which an acquisition is consummated. In addition, any completed, pending or future transactions may result in unanticipated expenses or tax or other liabilities associated with the acquired assets or businesses. Furthermore, we may incur indebtedness or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisitions. The incurrence of indebtedness could limit our operating flexibility and be detrimental to our results of operations, and the issuance of equity securities could be dilutive to our existing stockholders. Any or all of the above factors may differ from the investment community’s expectations in a given quarter, which could negatively affect our stock price. If we fail to introduce new products in a timely and cost-effective manner, our ability to sustain and increase our net revenues could suffer. The markets for our products are characterized by new product introductions, evolving industry standards and changes in manufacturing technologies. Because of this, our future success will in large part depend on our ability to: • continue to introduce new products in a timely fashion; • gain market acceptance of our products; • improve our existing products to meet customer requirements; • adapt our products to support established and emerging industry standards; • adapt our products to support evolving wireless and wireline equipment architectures; and • access new process and product technologies. We estimate that the development cycles of some of our products from concept to production could last more than 12 months. We have in the past experienced delays in the release of new products. We may not be able to introduce new products in a timely and cost-effective manner, which would impair our ability to sustain and increase our net revenues. Our efforts to diversify our product portfolio and expand into new markets have attendant execution risk. While historically we have derived most of our net revenues from the sale of products to the mobile wireless infrastructure market, one of our corporate strategies 9 Table of Contents involves leveraging our core strengths in high-performance RF component design, modular design process technology and wireless systems application knowledge to expand into new markets which have similar product performance requirements, such as the broadband wireless access, VoIP, cable, satellite radio and RFID markets. We do not have a long history in many of these markets or in consumer-oriented markets generally, and our lack of market knowledge relative to other participants in such markets may prevent us from competing effectively in them. It is possible that our competitive strengths will not translate effectively into these markets, or that these markets will not develop at the rates we anticipate. Any of these events could negatively affect our future operating results. Our reliance on third-party wafer fabs to manufacture our semiconductor wafers may cause a significant delay in our ability to fill orders and limits our ability to assure product quality and to control costs. We do not own or operate a semiconductor fabrication facility (fab). We currently rely on five third-party wafer fabs to manufacture our semiconductor wafers. These fabs include RF Micro Devices (RFMD) for GaAs devices, Atmel for SiGe devices, TriQuint Semiconductors for our discrete devices, GCS for our InGaP devices, and an Asian foundry that supplies us with LDMOS devices. In 2005, a majority of our semiconductors in terms of both volume and revenue were provided by Atmel, GCS and Northrop Grumman (NG) (formerly TRW). The loss of one of our third-party wafer fabs, or any reduction of capacity, manufacturing disruption, or delay or reduction in wafer supply, would negatively impact our ability to fulfill customer orders, perhaps materially, and has in the past and could in the future damage our relationships with our customers, either of which could significantly harm our business and operating results. Our contracts with these foundries, with one exception, feature “last-time buy” (LTB) arrangements. An LTB arrangement typically provides that, if the vendor decides to obsolete or materially change the process by which our products are made, we will be given prior notice and opportunity to make a last purchase of wafers in volume. While the goal of the LTB arrangement is to allow us a sufficient supply of wafers in such instances to either meet our future needs or give us time to transition our products to, and qualify, another supply source, there can be no assurance that the volume of wafers provided for under any LTB arrangement will adequately meet our future requirements. NG has discontinued the operation of the fabrication line on which our GaAs products have historically been made and we made a last-time buy of wafers in connection with the line shutdown. We believe that through a combination of our current inventory and our efforts to transition customers to products using semiconductors produced by our other foundry partners, we will have a sufficient wafer supply to meet our currently anticipated customer needs. However, there can be no assurance that sufficient supplies of such wafers will become available to the Company, or that our transitioning efforts will be successful and will not result in lost market share. Atmel, GCS, RFMD, TriQuint and our Asian foundry are each our sole source for parts in the particular fabrication technology manufactured at their facility. GCS is a private company with limited capital resources and operating history. Because there are limited numbers of third-party wafer fabs that use the particular process technologies we select for our products and that have sufficient capacity to meet our needs, it would be difficult to find an alternative source of supply. Even if we were able to find an alternative source, using alternative or additional third-party wafer fabs would require an extensive qualification process that could prevent or delay product shipments, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our reliance on these third-party wafer fabs involves several additional risks, including reduced control over the manufacturing costs, delivery times, reliability and quality of our components produced from these wafers. The fabrication of semiconductor wafers is a highly complex and precise process. We expect that our customers will continue to establish demanding specifications for quality, performance and reliability that must be met by our products. Our third-party wafer fabs may not be able to achieve and maintain acceptable production yields in the future. To the extent our third-party wafer fabs suffer failures or defects, we have in the past and could in the future experience warranty and product liability claims, lost net revenues, increased costs, and/or delays in, cancellations or rescheduling of orders or shipments, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the past, we have at times experienced delays in product shipments, quality issues and poor manufacturing yields from our third-party wafer fabs, which in turn delayed product shipments to our customers or resulted in product returns and related expense, higher costs of production and lower gross margins. We may in the future experience similar delays or other problems, such as inadequate wafer supply. Our reliance on subcontractors to package our products could cause a delay in our ability to fulfill orders or could increase our cost of revenues. We do not package the RF semiconductor components that we sell but rather rely on subcontractors to package our products. Packaging is the procedure of electrically bonding and encapsulating the IC into its final protective plastic or ceramic casing. We provide the wafers containing the ICs to third-party packagers. Although we currently work with five packagers, substantially all of our Amplifier division net revenues in 2005 were attributable to products packaged by two subcontractors. We do not have long-term contracts with our third-party packagers stipulating fixed prices or packaging volumes. Therefore, in the future, we may be unable to obtain sufficiently high quality or timely packaging of our products. The loss or reduction in packaging capacity of any of our current packagers, particularly Unisem, our current primary source for a particular, high-volume commercial package type and Circuit Electronic Industries Public Co., Ltd. (CEI), our second source for this particular package type, would significantly damage our business. In addition, increased packaging costs would adversely affect our gross margins and profitability. The fragile nature of the semiconductor wafers that we use in our components requires sophisticated packaging techniques and has in the past resulted in low packaging yields. If our packaging subcontractors fail to achieve and maintain acceptable production yields in the future, we could experience increased costs, including warranty and product liability expense and costs associated with customer support, delays in or cancellations or rescheduling of orders or shipments, product returns or discounts and lost net revenues, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to outsource the manufacture and test of our products on favorable terms, or at all, and even successful outsourcing creates risk due to our resulting reliance on vendors. We currently outsource a portion of our product manufacturing and testing function, and may increasingly do so where economically viable for both the vendor and us. For example, we rely on one manufacturing partner to produce all of our satellite radio antenna products and a significant majority of our broadband products. However, we may be unable to successfully outsource additional manufacturing and testing in the near term, or at all. The selection and ultimate qualification of subcontractors to manufacture and test our products could be costly and increase our cost of revenues. In addition, we also do not know if we will be able to negotiate long-term contracts with subcontractors to manufacture and test our products at acceptable prices or volumes. Further, outsourcing the manufacture of a substantial amount of our products may result in underutilization of our existing manufacturing facility, which could in turn result in a higher cost structure and lower gross margins than if we did not outsource such functions. Even if we find suitable vendors for an outsourced manufacture or test relationship, creation of such arrangements carries risks since we have to rely on the vendor to provide an uninterrupted source of high quality product. Because our customers have high quality and reliability standards and our components require sophisticated testing techniques, we have had problems in the past and may have difficulty in the future in obtaining sufficiently high quality or timely manufacture and testing of our products. Whenever a subcontractor is not successful in adopting such techniques, we may experience increased costs, including warranty and product liability expense and costs associated with customer support, delays in or cancellations or rescheduling of orders or shipments, damage to customer relationships, delayed qualification of new products with our customers, product returns or discounts and lost net revenues, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents Intense competition in our industry could prevent us from increasing net revenues and sustaining profitability. The RF component industry is intensely competitive in each of the markets we serve and is characterized by the following: • rapid technological change; • rapid product obsolescence; • limited number of wafer fabs for particular process technologies; • price erosion; and • unforeseen manufacturing yield and quality control problems. With respect to products sold in our Amplifier division, we compete primarily with other suppliers of high-performance RF components used in the infrastructure of communications networks such as Agilent, Hittite, M/A-COM, NEC and WJ Communications. For our newer broadband products, we expect our most significant competitors will include Maxim Integrated Products, Microtune, Motorola, STMicroeletronics and Philips. With respect to our Signal Source division products, our primary competitors are Alps, M/A-COM and Minicircuits. With respect to our A&D division products, our primary competitors are Hittite, M/A-COM, Spectrum Control and Teledyne. With respect to our satellite antenna sales, we compete with other manufacturers of satellite antennas and related equipment, including M/A-COM, RecepTec and Wistron NeWeb. We also compete with communications equipment manufacturers, some of whom are our customers, who design RF components internally such as Ericsson, Lucent, Motorola, Nokia and Nortel Networks. Competition in each of our markets is typically based on a combination of price, performance, product quality and reliability, customer support and the ability of each supplier to meet production deadlines and provide a steady source of supply. Market share at our large OEM customers in particular tends to fluctuate from year to year based not only on our relative success compared to our competitors in finding the right balance of these factors, but also based on changes in the willingness of customers to have only one source of supply. For example, we may have a 100% share of the supply of a particular product to a customer one year and only 50% the next based on the customer deciding to employ a second source for risk management or other reasons not related to our performance as a supplier. We expect continuing competition both from existing competitors and from a number of companies that may enter the RF component market and we may see future competition from companies that may offer new or emerging technologies. In addition, future competition may come from component suppliers based in countries with lower production costs that could translate into pricing pressures; companies that provide a more comprehensive active and passive RF component portfolio that would provide our customers with an attractive supply alternative; and IC manufacturers as they add additional functionality at the chip level to compete with our products. Many of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than we have. As a result, prospective customers may decide not to buy from us due to their concerns about our size, financial stability or ability to interact with their logistics systems. Our failure to successfully compete in our markets would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A substantial portion of our products are sold to international customers, which exposes us to numerous risks. A substantial portion of our direct sales and sales through our distributors are to foreign purchasers, particularly in China, Korea, Singapore, Philippines, Finland, Germany and Sweden. International sales approximated 75% of our net revenues in 2005, the majority of which was attributable to CMs and OEMs located in Asia. Demand for our products in foreign markets could decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, sales to international customers may be subject to numerous risks, including: • changes in trade policy and regulatory requirements; • duties, tariffs and other trade barriers and restrictions; • timing and availability of export licenses; • delays in placing orders; • difficulties in managing distributors’ sales to foreign countries; • the complexity and necessity of using foreign representatives; • compliance with a variety of foreign and U.S. laws affecting activities abroad; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • trade disputes; and • political, social and economic instability. We are also subject to risks associated with the imposition of legislation and regulations relating to the import or export of high technology products. We cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes or other charges or restrictions upon the importation or exportation of our products will be implemented by the United States or other countries. Because sales of our products have been denominated to date in United States dollars, increases in the value of the United States dollar could increase the price of our products so that they become relatively more expensive to customers in the local currency of a particular country, leading our customers to order fewer of our products, thereby reducing our sales and profitability in that country. Some of our customer purchase orders and agreements are governed by foreign laws, which may differ significantly from United States laws; therefore, we may be limited in our ability to enforce our rights under such agreements and to collect damages, if awarded. Sources for certain components and materials are limited, which could result in delays or reductions in product shipments. The semiconductor industry from time to time is affected by limited supplies of certain key components and materials. For example, we rely on Analog Devices for the ICs utilized in the manufacture of our PLL products, and we also rely on limited sources for certain packaging materials. If we, or our packaging subcontractors, are unable to obtain these or other materials in the required quantity and quality, we could experience delays or reductions in product shipments, which would materially and adversely affect our profitability. Although we have not experienced any significant difficulty to date in obtaining these materials, temporary shortages and low manufacturing yields have arisen in the past may arise in the future. If key components or materials are unavailable, while we would hope to be able to remedy through cooperation with the suppliers, locating alternate sources of supply or otherwise, our costs could increase and our net revenues could decline. We may experience difficulties in managing any future growth. Our ability to successfully manage our business plan in a rapidly evolving market requires us to effectively plan and manage any future growth. Our ability to manage future growth will be dependent in large part on a number of factors, including: • maintaining access to sufficient manufacturing capacity to meet customer demands; 11 Table of Contents • arranging for sufficient supply of key components to avoid shortages of components that are critical to our products; • hiring additional skilled technical, marketing and managerial personnel; • adhering to our high quality and process execution standards, particularly as we hire and train new employees; • managing the various components of our working capital effectively in periods where cash on hand is limited; • upgrading our operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, including possible improvement of our accounting and internal management systems; and • maintaining high levels of customer satisfaction. If we are unable to effectively manage any future growth, our operations may be impacted and we may experience delays in delivering products to our customers. Any such delays could affect our customers’ ability to deliver products in accordance with their planned manufacturing schedules, which could adversely affect our customer relationships. We may also be required to build additional component inventory in order to offset expected future component shortages. If we do not manage any future growth properly, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our products could infringe the intellectual property rights of others, and resulting claims against us could be costly and require us to enter into disadvantageous license or royalty arrangements. Our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and litigation based on allegations of patent infringement and the violation of intellectual property rights. Although we attempt to avoid infringing known proprietary rights of third parties in our product development efforts, we may be subject to legal proceedings and claims for alleged infringement by us or our licensees of third-party proprietary rights, such as patents, trade secrets, trademarks or copyrights, from time to time in the ordinary course of business. In addition, our sales agreements often contain intellectual property indemnities, such as patent and copyright indemnities, and our customers may assert claims against us for indemnification if they receive claims alleging that their products infringe others’ intellectual property rights. Any claims relating to the infringement of third-party proprietary rights, even if not meritorious, could result in costly litigation, divert management’s attention and resources, or require us to enter into royalty or license agreements which are not advantageous to us or pay material amounts of damages. In addition, parties making these claims may be able to obtain an injunction, which could prevent us from selling our products. We may increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of our products grows and as we move into new markets, and in particular in consumer markets where there are many entrenched competitors and we are less familiar with the competitive landscape and prior art. Recent changes in environmental laws and regulations applicable to manufacturers of electrical and electronic equipment have required us to redesign some of our products, and may increase our costs and expose us to liability. The implementation of new technological or legal requirements, such as recycling requirements and lead-free initiatives, has impacted our products and manufacturing processes, and could affect the timing of product introductions, the cost and commercial success of our products and our overall profitability. For example, a directive in the European Union bans the use of lead, other heavy metals and certain flame retardants in electrical and electronic equipment beginning in 2006. As a result, in advance of this deadline, many of our customers have begun demanding products that do not contain these banned substances and have indicated that they will no longer design in non-compliant components. Because most of our existing IC products utilize a tin-lead alloy as a soldering material in the manufacturing process, our MCM products contain circuit boards plated with a tin-lead surface and certain molded active components in our MCM products are molded with a banned substance, we must redesign our products and obtain compliant raw materials from our suppliers to respond to the new legislation and to meet customer demand. Although we began this process in the first quarter of 2004 and have released many compliant products to date, we have products that remain noncompliant. Due to the limited geographic coverage of the regulations and our worldwide customer base, the different rates at which various customers are moving to lead-free components, and the fact that some leaded components remain exempt from the regulations for particular customer applications, we are not stopping all production of leaded parts on a particular scheduled date, but are making the move gradually as customer demand dictates. We anticipate selling leaded products for some time. We may be left with excess inventory of certain leaded parts if customers for those parts move to lead-free only consumption without giving us sufficient notice. In addition, our industry has no long-term data to assess the effectiveness, shelf-life, moisture sensitivity, and thermal tolerance of alternative materials, so we may experience product quality and performance issues as we transition our products to such materials. Further, for our MCM products we rely on third party suppliers, over which we have little or no control, to provide certain of the components needed for our products to meet applicable standards. In addition, this redesign is resulting in increased research and development and manufacturing and quality control costs. If we are unable to redesign existing products and introduce new products to meet the standards set by environmental regulation and our customers, sales of our products could decline, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to comply with any applicable environmental regulations could result in a range of consequences, including loss of sales, fines, suspension of production, excess inventory, and criminal and civil liabilities. Another recent directive in the European Union imposes a “take-back” obligation on manufacturers of electrical and electronic equipment. This obligation requires manufacturers of electrical or electronic equipment to finance the collection, recovery and disposal of the electrical or electronic equipment that they produce. At this time, we are not aware of adopted legislation implementing this directive. In addition, methods of complying with these potential take-back obligations have not been developed by our industry. Even if the specific legislation does not directly apply to us or our products and solutions, our customers could potentially shift some of their costs to us through contractual provisions. We are unable to assess the impact of this proposed legislation on us at this time but it could result in increased costs to us, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Environmental regulations could subject us to substantial costs or fines, or require us to suspend production, alter manufacturing processes or cease operations at one or more sites. The manufacture, assembly and testing of our products requires the use of hazardous materials that are subject to a broad array of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations governing the use, transportation, emission, discharge, storage, recycling or disposal of such materials. Failure to comply with any such laws or regulations could result in fines, suspension of production, alteration of fabrication and assembly processes, curtailment of operations or sales, requirements to remediate land, air or groundwater and other legal liability. Some domestic and foreign environmental regulations allow regulating authorities to impose cleanup liability on a company that leases or otherwise becomes associated with a contaminated site even though that company had nothing to do with the acts that gave rise to the contamination. Accordingly, even if our own operations are conducted in accordance with these laws, we may incur environmental liability based on the actions of prior owners, lessees or neighbors of sites we lease now or in the future, or sites we become associated with due to acquisitions. For example, PDI’s manufacturing site in Nuremberg occupies a small portion of a large parcel formerly occupied by Alcatel and other manufacturers dating back to the early 1900s. Chlorinated solvent and heavy metal contamination in air, soil and groundwater were identified on the former Alcatel site in the late 1980s, and pump-and-treat remediation systems have been implemented on portions of the site. While we do not believe that this contamination resulted from the operation of PDI’s business, that any additional remediation is required on the PDI site or that we or PDI have any material related liability, currently there can be no assurance that such liability will not arise in the future. 12 Table of Contents We have a material amount of goodwill and long-lived assets, including finite-lived acquired intangible assets, which, if impaired, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We have a material amount of goodwill, which is the amount by which the cost of an acquisition accounted for using the purchase method exceeds the fair value of the net assets acquired. Goodwill is subject to a periodic impairment evaluation based on the fair value of the reporting unit. We also have a material amount of long-lived assets, including finite-lived acquired intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet. These assets are evaluated for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of the related assets may not be recoverable. Any impairment of our goodwill or long-lived assets, including finite-lived acquired intangible assets, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain key personnel, we may be unable to pursue business opportunities or develop our products. We believe that our future success will depend in large part upon our continued ability to recruit, hire, retain and motivate highly skilled technical, marketing and managerial personnel. Competition for these employees is significant. Our failure to retain our present employees and hire additional qualified personnel in a timely manner and on reasonable terms could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, from time to time we may recruit and hire employees from our customers, suppliers and distributors, which could damage our business relationship with these parties. Our success also depends on the continuing contributions of our senior management and technical personnel, all of whom would be difficult to replace. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our ability to execute our business strategy, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be successful in retaining these key personnel. The outcome of litigation in which we have been named as a defendant is unpredictable and an adverse decision in any such matter could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. We are defendants in litigation matters that are described under the heading “Legal Proceedings” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These claims may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. Although we believe that we have meritorious defenses to the claims made in each and all of the litigation matters to which we have been named a party, and intend to contest each lawsuit vigorously, no assurances can be given that the results of these matters will be favorable to us. An adverse resolution of any of these lawsuits, including the results of any amicable settlement, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The timing of the adoption of industry standards may negatively impact widespread market acceptance of our products. The markets in which we and our customers compete are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and continuous improvements in products and services. If technologies or standards supported by us or our customers’ products, such as 2.5G and 3G, fail to gain widespread commercial acceptance, our business will be significantly impacted. For example, the worldwide installation of 2.5G and 3G equipment has occurred at a much slower rate than was initially expected. In addition, while historically the demand for wireless and wireline communications has exerted pressure on standards bodies worldwide to adopt new standards for these products, such adoption generally only occurs following extensive investigation of, and deliberation over, competing technologies. The delays inherent in the standards approval process have in the past and may in the future cause the cancellation, postponement or rescheduling of the installation of communications systems by our customers. If further delays in adoption of industry standards were to occur, in particular with respect to the anticipated rollout of 3G technology in China, it could result in lower sales of our products and worse than expected results of operations in one or more periods. We face several risks associated with our Aerospace and Defense division. In 2003 we announced the creation of our A&D business unit that targets customers in the military, defense, avionics, space and homeland security market segments. In the first quarter of 2005, we reorganized our business segments and now report A&D as a division. Sales for this division decreased in 2005 compared to 2004. We can make no assurance that we will be able to successfully serve the needs of potential customers in these markets or realize any significant increase in net revenues from this business in the future. Through our participation in this market, we may make sales to companies doing business with the U.S. government as prime contractors or subcontractors. We may also do business directly with the U.S. government. In addition to normal business risks, we face several unique risks, largely beyond our control, associated with doing business, directly or indirectly, with the U.S. government, including: • the reliance of our customers and us on the availability of government funding and their and our ability to obtain future government contractor awards; • the intense competition for future government contractor awards; • changes in government or customer priorities due to program reviews or revisions to strategic objectives; • difficulty of forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on developmental and highly sophisticated technical work; • the ability of the U.S. government to terminate, without prior notice, partially completed government programs that were previously authorized, resulting in possible termination of our customer contracts; • significant changes in contract scheduling; and • government import and export policies and other government regulations. The termination of funding for a government program for which we serve as a supplier would result in a loss of anticipated future net revenues attributable to that program. Our government business is also subject to specific procurement regulations and a variety of socio-economic and other requirements, including necessary security clearances. These requirements, although customary in government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs and could result in delays in fulfilling customer orders or our inability to meet customer demand for products. Government contract performance and compliance costs might increase in the future, which could reduce our gross margins and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our limited ability to protect our proprietary information and technology may adversely affect our ability to compete. Our future success and ability to compete is dependent in part upon our proprietary information and technology. Although we have patented technology and have patent applications pending, we primarily rely on a combination of contractual rights and copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and practices to establish and protect our proprietary technology. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, resellers, wafer suppliers, vendors, customers and potential customers, and strictly limit the disclosure and use of our proprietary information. The steps taken by us in this regard may not be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology. Additionally, our competitors may independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain or use our products or technology. Our ability to enforce our patents, copyrights, software licenses and other intellectual property is limited by our financial resources and is subject to general litigation risks, as well as uncertainty as to the enforceability of various intellectual property rights in various countries. If we seek to enforce our rights, we may be subject to claims that the intellectual property right is invalid, is otherwise not enforceable or is licensed to the party against whom we are asserting a claim. In addition, our assertion of intellectual property rights could result in the other party seeking to assert alleged intellectual property rights of its own against us. 13 Table of Contents Some of our stockholders can exert control over us, and they may not make decisions that reflect our interests or those of other stockholders. Our founding stockholders control a significant amount of our outstanding common stock. In addition, in connection with the closing of the PDI acquisition, we expect that the two controlling stockholders of PDI will be issued 7,000,000 shares of our common stock. As a result, these stockholders will be able to exert a significant degree of influence over our management and affairs and control over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of our directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. In addition, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change in control of us and might affect the market price of our securities. In addition, the interests of these stockholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 