Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should read the following risk factors carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and the actual outcome of matters in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. While we believe we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect our business, performance or financial condition in the future. We operate in a highly competitive industry. The food and snacking industries are highly competitive. Our principal competitors are major international food, snack and beverage companies that, like us, operate in multiple geographic areas. We compete based on price, product innovation, product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, effectiveness of marketing, promotional activity and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. We may need to reduce our prices in response to competitive and customer pressures. Additionally, the emergence of new distribution channels, such as Internet sales directly to consumers, may affect customer and consumer preferences. Competition and customer pressures may also restrict our ability to increase prices in response to commodity and other cost increases. We may also need to increase or reallocate spending on marketing, advertising and new product innovation to protect or increase market share. These expenditures are subject to risks, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance of our efforts. If we reduce prices or our costs increase, but we cannot increase sales volumes to offset those changes, then our financial condition and results of operations will suffer. 9 Table of Contents Maintaining, extending and expanding our reputation and brand image is essential to our business success. We have many iconic brands with worldwide recognition. Our success depends on our ability to maintain brand image for our existing products, extend our brands into new geographies and to new platforms and expand our brand image with new product offerings. We seek to maintain, extend and expand our brand image through marketing investments, including advertising and consumer promotions, and product innovation. Continuing global focus on health and wellness, including weight management, and increasing media attention to the role of food marketing could adversely affect our brand image or lead to stricter regulations and greater scrutiny of food and snacking marketing practices. Increased legal or regulatory restrictions on our advertising, consumer promotions and marketing, or our response to those restrictions, could limit our efforts to maintain, extend and expand our brands. Moreover, adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us could damage our reputation and brand image, undermine our customers’ confidence and reduce long-term demand for our products, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations. In addition, our success in maintaining, extending and expanding our brand image depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing media environment, including our increasing reliance on social media and online dissemination of advertising campaigns. We are subject to a variety of legal and regulatory restrictions on how and to whom we market our products, for instance marketing to children. These restrictions may limit our ability to maintain, extend and expand our brand image as the media and communications environment continues to evolve. Negative posts or comments about us on social networking web sites could seriously damage our reputation and brand image. If we do not maintain, extend and expand our brand image, then our product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The consolidation of retail customers creates larger retailers with increased influence in the marketplace. Retail customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors in the European Union, the United States and our other major markets, continue to consolidate, resulting in fewer customers on which we can rely for business. Consolidation also produces large, more sophisticated retail customers that can resist price increases and demand lower pricing, increased promotional programs or specifically tailored products. In addition, larger retailers have the scale to develop supply chains that permit them to operate with reduced inventories or to develop and market their own retailer brands. Further retail consolidation and increasing retail power could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. Retail consolidation also increases the risk that adverse changes in our customers’ business operations or financial performance will have a corresponding material adverse effect on us. For example, if our customers cannot access sufficient funds or financing, then they may delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products, or delay or fail to pay us for previous purchases. Changes in our relationships with significant customers or suppliers could affect sales and our ability to supply products to our customers. During 2012, our five largest customers accounted for 15.6% of our net revenues. No single customer accounted for 10% or more of our net revenues from continuing operations. There can be no assurance that all significant customers will continue to purchase our products in the same mix or quantities or on the same terms as in the past, particularly as increasingly powerful retailers continue to demand lower pricing and develop their own brands. The loss of a significant customer or a material reduction in sales, or a change in the mix of products we sell to a significant customer could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. Disputes with significant suppliers, including those related to pricing or performance, could adversely affect our ability to supply products to our customers and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. Commodity and other input prices are volatile and may rise significantly. We purchase large quantities of commodities, including sugar and other sweeteners, coffee, cocoa, wheat, corn products, soybean and vegetable oils and dairy. In addition, we use significant quantities of packaging materials to package our products. We also use natural gas, fuels and electricity for our factories and warehouses. Prices for commodities, other supplies and energy are volatile and can fluctuate due to conditions that are difficult to predict, including global 10 Table of Contents competition for resources, currency fluctuations, severe weather, consumer or industrial demand and changes in governmental trade, alternative energy and agricultural programs. Although we monitor our exposure to commodity prices as an integral part of our overall risk management program, and seek to hedge against input price increases, continued volatility in the prices of commodities and other supplies we purchase could increase the costs of our products, and our profitability could suffer. Moreover, increases in the price of our products to cover these increased costs may result in lower sales volumes, while decreases could require us to lower our prices and affect our revenues, profits or margins. If we are not successful in our hedging activities, if we are unable to price to cover increased costs or if we must reduce our prices, then commodity and other input price volatility, increases or decreases could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We must leverage our value proposition in order to compete against retailer brands and other economy brands. Retailers are increasingly offering retailer and other economy brands that compete with some of our products. Our products must provide higher value and/or quality to our consumers than less expensive alternatives, particularly during periods of economic uncertainty such as those we continue to experience. Consumers may not buy our products if the difference in value or quality between our products and retailer or other economy brands narrows or if consumers perceive a narrowing. If consumers switch to purchasing, or otherwise prefer retailer or other economy brands, then we could lose market share or sales volumes or shift our product mix to lower margin offerings. The impact could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in regulations could increase our costs. Our activities throughout the world are highly regulated and subject to government oversight. Various laws and regulations govern food production and marketing, as well as licensing, trade, tax and environmental matters. Governing bodies regularly adopt new laws and regulations and change existing laws and regulations. Our need to comply with new or revised laws and regulations or their interpretation and application, including proposed requirements designed to enhance food safety or to regulate imported ingredients, could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. Legal claims or other regulatory enforcement actions could subject us to civil and criminal penalties. We are a large food and snacking company operating in highly regulated environments and constantly evolving legal and regulatory frameworks around the world. Consequently, we are subject to heightened risk of legal claims or other regulatory enforcement actions. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with existing laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies and procedures. Moreover, our failure to maintain effective control environment processes could lead to violations, unintentional or otherwise, of laws and regulations. Legal claims or regulatory enforcement actions arising out of our failure or alleged failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could materially and adversely affect our product sales, reputation, financial condition and results of operations. We may decide or be required to recall products or be subjected to other product liability claims. Selling products for human consumption involves inherent risks. We could decide to, or be required to recall products due to suspected or confirmed product contamination, spoilage or other adulteration, product misbranding or product tampering. Any of these events could materially and adversely affect our reputation and product sales, financial condition and results of operations. We may also suffer losses if our products or operations violate applicable laws or regulations, or if our products cause injury, illness or death. In addition, our marketing could face claims of false or deceptive advertising or other criticism. A significant product liability or other legal judgment or a related regulatory enforcement action against us, or a widespread product recall, may materially and adversely affect our reputation and profitability. Moreover, even if a product liability or consumer fraud claim is unsuccessful, has no merit or is not pursued, the negative publicity surrounding assertions against our products or processes could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents We are subject to risks generally associated with companies that operate globally. We are a global company generating 82.9% of our 2012 net revenues, 83.7% of our 2011 net revenues and 82.6% of our 2010 net revenues outside the United States. With operations in more than 80 countries, our operations are subject to risks inherent in multinational operations. Those risks include: • compliance with U.S. laws affecting operations outside of the United States, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), • compliance with a varying local, national and multi-national regulations and laws operating in multiple regimes, • changes in tax laws and the interpretation of those laws, • fluctuations in currency values, • sudden changes in currency exchange controls, such as the recent devaluation in Venezuela • discriminatory or conflicting fiscal policies, • increased risk on sovereign debt investments, • varying abilities to enforce intellectual property and contractual rights, • greater risk of uncollectible accounts and longer collection cycles, • effective and immediate implementation of control environment processes across our diverse operations and employee base, and the • imposition of more or new tariffs, quotas, trade barriers, and similar restrictions on our sales. In addition, political and economic changes or volatility, geopolitical regional conflicts, terrorist activity, political unrest, civil strife, acts of war, public corruption and other economic or political uncertainties could interrupt and negatively affect our business operations. All of these factors could result in increased costs or decreased revenues, and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations in certain emerging markets expose us to political, economic and regulatory risks. Our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to expand our operations in emerging markets, including Brazil, China, India, Mexico, Russia and Southeast Asia. However, some emerging markets have greater political and economic volatility and greater vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions than most established markets. In many countries outside of the United States, particularly in those with emerging economies, it may be common for others to engage in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations with extraterritorial reach, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act or similar local anti-bribery laws. These laws generally prohibit companies and their employees, contractors or agents from making improper payments to government officials. Failure to comply with these laws could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, competition in emerging markets is increasing as our competitors grow their global operations and low cost local manufacturers expand their production capacities. Our success in emerging markets, is critical to our growth strategy. If we cannot successfully increase our business in emerging markets, our product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Unanticipated business disruptions could affect our ability to provide our products to our customers. We manufacture and source products and materials on a global scale. We have a complex network of suppliers, owned manufacturing locations, co-manufacturing locations, distribution networks and information systems that support our ability consistently to provide our products to our customers. Factors that are hard to predict or beyond our control, like weather, natural disasters, fire, terrorism, generalized labor unrest or health pandemics, could damage or disrupt our operations, or our suppliers’ or co-manufacturers’ operations. If we cannot respond to disruptions in our operations, for example, by finding alternative suppliers or replacing capacity at key manufacturing or distribution locations, or cannot quickly repair damage to our information, production or supply systems, we may be late in delivering, or be unable to deliver, products to our customers. If that occurs, we may lose our customers’ confidence and long-term demand for our products could decline. Any of these events could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents We must correctly predict, identify and interpret changes in consumer preferences and demand, and offer new products to meet those changes. Consumer preferences for food and snacking products change continually. Our success depends on our ability to predict, identify and interpret the tastes and dietary habits of consumers and to offer products that appeal to consumer preferences. If we do not offer products that appeal to consumers, our sales and market share will decrease and our profitability could suffer. We must distinguish among short-term fads, mid-term trends and long-term changes in consumer preferences. If we do not accurately predict which shifts in consumer preferences will be long-term, or if we fail to introduce new and improved products to satisfy those preferences, our sales could decline. In addition, because of our varied consumer base, including by geography, we must offer an array of products that satisfy the broad spectrum of consumer preferences. If we fail to expand our product offerings successfully across product categories, or if we do not rapidly develop products in faster growing and more profitable categories, demand for our products will decrease and our profitability could suffer. Prolonged negative perceptions concerning the health implications of certain food products could influence consumer preferences and acceptance of some of our products and marketing programs. For example, recently, consumers have been increasingly focused on health and wellness, including weight management and reducing sodium consumption. We strive to respond to consumer preferences and social expectations, but we may be unsuccessful in these efforts. Continued negative perceptions and failure to satisfy consumer preferences could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. We may not successfully identify or complete acquisitions or divestitures or successfully integrate the businesses we acquire. From time to time, we evaluate acquisition candidates that may strategically fit our business objectives. If we are unable to complete acquisitions or to successfully integrate and develop acquired businesses we could fail to achieve anticipated synergies and cost savings, including the expected increases in revenues and operating results, any of which could materially and adversely affect our financial results. In addition, we may divest businesses that do not meet our strategic objectives, or do not meet our growth or profitability targets. We may not be able to complete desired or proposed divestitures on terms favorable to us. Gains or losses on the sales of, or lost operating income from, those businesses may affect our profitability. Moreover, we may incur asset impairment charges related to acquisitions or divestitures that reduce our profitability. Our acquisition or divestiture activities may present financial, managerial and operational risks. Those risks include diversion of management attention from existing core businesses, difficulties integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, effective and immediate implementation of control environment processes across our diverse employee population, adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, inaccurate estimates of fair value made in the accounting for acquisitions and amortization of acquired intangible assets which would reduce future reported earnings, potential loss of customers or key employees of acquired businesses, and indemnities and potential disputes with the buyers or sellers. Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The Spin-Off increased the proportion of our business exposed to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Our financial results and capital ratios are now more sensitive to movements in exchange rates than in prior periods because a larger portion of our assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses must be translated into U.S. dollars for external reporting purposes or converted into U.S. dollars to service obligations such as our U.S. dollar-denominated indebtedness and dividends. In addition, movements in foreign exchange rates can affect transaction costs because we source product ingredients from various countries. We may seek to mitigate our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations, but our efforts may not be successful. Accordingly, a depreciation of non-U.S. dollar currencies relative to the U.S. dollar, or changes in the relative value of any two currencies that we use for transactions, could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents We are increasingly dependent on information technology. We rely on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic and financial information, to manage a variety of business processes and activities, and to comply with regulatory, legal and tax requirements. We also depend on our information technology infrastructure for digital marketing activities and for electronic communications among our locations, personnel, customers and suppliers around the world. These information technology systems, some of which are managed by third parties, may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to failures during the process of upgrading or replacing software, databases or components thereof, power outages, hardware failures, computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers, telecommunication failures, user errors or catastrophic events. If any of our significant information technology systems suffer severe damage, disruption or shutdown, and our business continuity plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, our product sales, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected, and we could experience delays in reporting our financial results. In addition, if we are unable to prevent security breaches, we may suffer financial and reputational damage, litigation or remediation costs or penalties because of the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our partners, customers or suppliers. In addition, the disclosure of non-public sensitive information through external media channels could lead to the loss of intellectual property or damage our reputation and brand image. Weak financial performance, downgrades in our credit ratings, illiquid global capital markets and volatile global economic conditions could limit our access to the capital markets, reduce our liquidity and increase our borrowing costs. From time to time we may need to access the long-term and short-term global capital markets to obtain financing. Our financial performance, our short- and long-term credit ratings, the liquidity of the overall global capital markets and the state of the global economy, including the food industry, will affect our access to, and the availability of, financing on acceptable terms and conditions in the future. There can be no assurance that we will have access to the global capital markets on terms we find acceptable. We access the U.S. and euro commercial paper markets for regular funding requirements. A downgrade in our credit ratings would increase our borrowing costs and could affect our ability to issue commercial paper. Disruptions in the global commercial paper market or other effects of volatile economic conditions on the global credit markets also could reduce the amount of commercial paper that we could issue and could raise our borrowing costs for both short- and long-term debt offerings. Our inability to access the global capital markets or an increase in our borrowing costs could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Volatility in the equity markets, interest rates or other factors could substantially increase our pension costs. We sponsor a number of benefit plans for our employees throughout the world, including defined benefit pension plans, retiree health and welfare, active health care, severance and other postemployment benefits. At the end of 2012, the projected benefit obligation of our defined benefit pension plans was $11.2 billion and plan assets were $8.3 billion. The difference between plan obligations and assets, or the funded status of the plans, significantly affects the net periodic benefit costs of our pension plans and the ongoing funding requirements of those plans. Our major defined benefit pension plans are funded with trust assets invested in a globally diversified portfolio of investments, including equities and corporate debt. Among other factors, changes in interest rates, mortality rates, early retirement rates, investment returns, minimum funding requirements in the jurisdictions in which the plans operate, arrangements made with the trustees of certain plans and the market value of plan assets can affect the level of plan funding, cause volatility in the net periodic pension cost, and increase our future funding requirements. Legislative and other governmental regulatory actions may also increase funding requirements for our pension plans’ benefits obligation. Based on current tax laws, we estimate our 2013 pension contributions will be approximately $320 million. We also expect that our net pension cost will decrease to approximately $370 million in 2013. The decrease is primarily due to non-recurring costs in 2012 related primarily to certain pension plan obligations transferred to Kraft Foods Group in the Spin-Off and other 2012 one-time costs, partially offset by increased pension plan expenses in 2013 related to lower discount rates. Volatility in the global capital markets has increased the risk that we may be required to make additional cash contributions to the pension plans and recognize further increases in our net pension cost beyond 2013. A significant portion of some of our pension trust assets are invested in European sovereign debt and are subject to heightened risk that they will lose value as a result of political and financial turmoil in Europe. 14 Table of Contents Due to our participation in multi-employer pension plans, we may have exposure under those plans that extends beyond what our obligation would be with respect to our employees. If a participating employer ceases its contributions to the plan, as a result of a bankruptcy or otherwise, such as in the case of Hostess Brands’ bankruptcy which we are currently evaluating, we may be required to participate in funding the unfunded obligations of the plan allocable to the withdrawing employer and our costs might increase as a result. (See Note 10, Benefit Plans, to the consolidated financial statements for more information). Further, if we withdraw from a multi-employer pension plan, we may be required to pay those plans an amount based on our allocable share of the underfunded status of the plan. A significant increase in our pension funding requirements could have a negative impact on our ability to invest in the business. We may be unable to hire or retain and develop key personnel or a highly skilled and diverse global workforce. Our continued growth requires us to hire, retain and develop our leadership bench and a highly skilled and diverse global workforce. We compete to hire new personnel and then to develop and retain their skills and competencies. Any unplanned turnover or our failure to develop an adequate succession plan to backfill current leadership positions, or to hire and retain a diverse global workforce could deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitive advantage. In addition, our operating results could be adversely affected by increased costs due to increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover or increased employee benefit costs. Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products and brands. We consider our intellectual property rights, particularly and most notably our trademarks, but also our patents, trade secrets, copyrights and licensing agreements, to be a significant and valuable aspect of our business. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements, third party nondisclosure and assignment agreements and policing of third party misuses of our intellectual property. Our failure to obtain or adequately protect our trademarks, products, new features of our products, or our technology, or any change in law or other changes that serve to lessen or remove the current legal protections of our intellectual property, may diminish our competitiveness and could materially harm our business. We may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology, brands or products. Any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert management’s and other key personnel’s attention from our business operations. Third party claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly license agreements. We also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain of our products. Any of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 