ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. The following risk factors, among others, could cause our financial performance to differ significantly from the goals, plans, objectives, intentions and expectations expressed in this report. If any of the following risks and uncertainties or other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or not currently considered to be material actually occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could be harmed substantially. We have limited operating experience and revenue, and we are not currently profitable. We expect to continue to incur net losses for the foreseeable future, and we may never achieve or maintain profitability. We have a limited operating history and, from our inception, we have earned limited revenue from operations. We have incurred significant net losses in each year of our operations, including a net loss of approximately $45.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. As a result of ongoing operating losses, we had an accumulated deficit and deficit after re-entry into development stage of approximately $96.7 million on cumulative revenues from inception of approximately $1.0 million as of December 31, 2008. Under our current growth plan, we do not expect that our revenues will be sufficient to cover our expenses unless we are able to successfully place a number of power plants in service. As a result, we expect to continue to 43 Table of Contents incur substantial losses until we are able to generate significant revenues. Our ability to generate significant revenues and become profitable will depend on many factors, including our ability to: • secure adequate capital; • identify and secure productive geothermal sites; • verify that the properties in which we have acquired an interest contain geothermal resources that are sufficient to generate electricity; • acquire electrical transmission and interconnection rights for geothermal plants we intend to develop; • enter into power purchase agreements for the sale of electrical power from the geothermal power plants we intend to develop at prices that support our operating and financing costs; • enter into additional tax equity partner agreements with potential financing partners that will provide for the allocation of tax benefits to them and for the contribution of capital by them to our projects or to successfully utilize new incentive provisions being implemented by the United States government; • finance and complete the development of multiple geothermal power plants; • manage construction, drilling and operating costs associated with our geothermal power projects; • successfully license commercial applications of our motor, generator and drive technologies; • enforce and protect our intellectual property while avoiding infringement claims; • comply with applicable governmental regulations; and • attract and retain qualified personnel. We will need to secure additional financing and if we are unable to secure adequate funds on terms acceptable to us, we will be unable to support our business requirements, build our business or continue as a going concern. At December 31, 2008, we had approximately $1.5 million in cash and cash equivalents. Our operating activities used approximately $22.9 million and approximately $6.8 million of cash during the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We have incurred substantial losses since inception and we are not operating at cash breakeven. Our continuation as a going concern is dependent on efforts to secure additional funding, increase revenues, reduce expenses, and ultimately achieve profitable operations. If we are unable to raise sufficient, additional capital on reasonable terms, liquidity concerns may require us to curtail or cease operations, liquidate or sell assets or pursue other actions that could adversely affect future operations. Reduction of expenditures could have a negative impact on our business. A reduction of expenditures would make it more difficult for us to execute our plans to develop geothermal power plants in accordance with our expectations. It would also make it more difficult for us to conduct adequate research and development and other activities necessary to commercialize our Symetron technologies. From time to time, we have raised additional capital through the sale of equity and equity-related securities. Most recently, on November 14, 2008, we sold 2,000,000 shares of our common stock at a fixed price of $5.00 per share, or an aggregate purchase price of $10.0 million, in a private placement transaction. We also sold 2,360,417 shares of our common stock on December 12, 2008 for $4.23654 per share, or an aggregate purchase price of $10.0 million. We paid commissions of $1,232,000 to a placement agent in connection with the closing of the private placement transactions. In February 2009, we also entered into an unsecured line of credit arrangement, pursuant to which we may borrow up to $15.0 million, subject to the final approval of each advance by the lenders party to the line of credit 44 Table of Contents arrangement. Pursuant to the Thermo Financing Agreements, we received a capital contribution for minority interest in our Thermo Subsidiary totaling $3.7 million. Under the same Thermo Financing Agreements, we also entered into an 18 year non-recourse senior secured note bearing annual interest at 7.00% and received net proceeds totaling $26.1 million. In addition, we obtained project financing for our Thermo No. 1 project, which included the repayment of approximately $14.1 million of construction costs previously incurred by us for construction of the project. In order to execute our business strategy and continue our business operations, however, we will need to secure additional funding from other sources through the issuance of debt, preferred stock, equity or a combination of these instruments. We may also seek to obtain financing through a joint venture, the sale of one or more of our projects or interests therein, entry into pre-paid power purchase agreements with utilities or municipalities, a merger and/or other transaction, a consequence of which could include the sale or issuance of stock to third parties. We cannot be certain that funding from any of these sources will be available on reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to secure adequate funds on a timely basis on terms acceptable to us, we may need to modify our current plans for plant construction, well field development and other development activities, extend the time frame over which these activities will take place or cease operations. On March 19, 2008, we raised gross proceeds of $50.0 million, before deducting fees and commissions from the issuance of the Convertible Notes. We placed approximately $7.9 million of the proceeds in an escrow account to secure payment of the first four interest payments payable on the Convertible Notes. We also used approximately $15.0 million of the proceeds to enter into a forward stock purchase transaction, pursuant to which we will repurchase shares of our common stock, and approximately $5.9 million of net proceeds to fund a call spread option transaction. On April 1, 2008, the initial purchaser of the Convertible Notes exercised its overallotment option and we sold an additional $5.0 million aggregate principal amount of Convertible Notes. We placed approximately $0.8 million of the proceeds from the overallotment exercise in an escrow account to secure payment of the first two years of interest payable on the additional Convertible Notes issued pursuant to the overallotment exercise. Our Commitment Letter with Merrill Lynch sets forth certain general terms relating to the structure and financing of up to 155 MW of geothermal power plants we intend to develop. Pursuant to the Commitment Letter, we have obtained project financing for our Thermo No. 1 project. Pursuant to the Commitment Letter we have also received financing commitments for two other projects: one in Nevada and one in New Mexico. The financing commitments for the New Mexico and Nevada projects expired on December 1, 2008 and June 30, 2008, respectively. We and Merrill Lynch have agreed to work towards formally extending the expiration date of the Lightning Dock commitment in the future. Since the Truckee commitment was negotiated, we have initiated the development of several other projects, and a number of these projects are expected to be developed more rapidly than the Truckee project. Therefore, in the fourth quarter of 2008, we determined to postpone our discussions with Merrill Lynch regarding an extension of the Truckee commitment. We intend to continue our development efforts at the Truckee project and seek a new financing commitment from Merrill Lynch once those development efforts progress to the point when financing is needed for construction of a plant and related development activities. If Merrill Lynch elects to provide or arrange a financing commitment with respect to any additional projects, such financing commitment will be subject to satisfactory due diligence, the execution of a separate commitment letter relating to such project and certain other conditions. Even if we are able to obtain funding for the development of additional projects pursuant to the Commitment Letter, we will need additional financing to cover general operating expenses and certain development expenses that are not covered by the Commitment Letter. If we raise additional capital through the issuance of equity or securities convertible into equity, our stockholders may experience dilution. Any new securities we issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the holders of our common stock, such as dividend rights or anti-dilution protections. We have previously issued warrants to purchase our common stock in connection with certain transactions. Some of these warrants continue to be outstanding and contain anti-dilution provisions. Pursuant to these anti-dilution 45 Table of Contents provisions, the exercise price of the applicable warrants will be adjusted if we issue equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities at a price lower than the exercise price of the applicable warrants. We may also secure additional financing by incurring indebtedness. Any indebtedness we incur could constrict our liquidity, result in substantial cash outflows, and adversely affect our financial health and ability to obtain financing in the future. Any such debt would likely contain restrictive covenants that may impair our ability to obtain future additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate or other purposes, and a substantial portion of cash flows, if any, from our operations may be dedicated to interest payments and debt repayment, thereby reducing the funds available to us for other purposes. Any failure by us to satisfy our obligations with respect to these potential debt obligations would likely constitute a default under such credit facilities. Our independent registered public accounting firm’s report on our 2008 financial statements questions our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm’s report on our financial statements as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 and for the three year period ended December 31, 2008 expresses doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Their report includes an explanatory paragraph stating that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern due to the lack of sufficient capital, as of the date their report was issued, to support our business plan through the end of 2009. We will need to secure additional financing in the future and if we are unable to secure adequate funds on terms acceptable to us, we will be unable to support our business requirements, build our business or continue as a going concern. Accordingly, we can offer no assurance that the actions we plan to take to address these conditions will be successful. Inclusion of a “going concern qualification” in the report of our independent accountants or any future report may have a negative impact on our ability to obtain financing and may adversely impact our stock price. The current worldwide political and economic conditions, specifically disruptions in the capital and credit markets, may materially and adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition. Recently, general worldwide economic conditions have experienced a downturn due to the credit conditions resulting from the subprime-mortgage turmoil and other factors, slower economic activity, concerns about inflation and deflation, increased energy costs, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, recent international conflicts, recent terrorist and military activity, and the impact of natural disasters and public health emergencies. If the current market conditions continue or worsen, our business, operations and financial condition will likely be materially and adversely affected. The United States credit and capital markets have become increasingly volatile as a result of adverse conditions that have caused the failure and near failure of a number of large financial services companies. If the capital and credit markets continue to experience volatility and the availability of funds remains limited, our ability to obtain needed financing on favorable terms could be severely limited. In the current environment, lenders may seek more restrictive lending provisions and higher interest rates that may reduce our ability to obtain financing and increase our costs. Also, lenders may simply be unwilling or unable to provide financing. Although we intend to seek additional funding for our projects in accordance with our Commitment Letter with Merrill Lynch, we cannot predict whether Merrill Lynch’s ability or willingness to provide financing to us will be adversely affected if current market conditions continue or worsen. Longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to capital needed for our operations and development plans. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing, we could be forced to reduce, delay or cancel planned capital expenditures, sell assets or seek additional equity capital, or 46 Table of Contents pursue other actions that could adversely affect future operations. Failure to obtain sufficient financing or a reduction of expenditures may cause delays and make it more difficult to execute our plans to develop geothermal power plants in accordance with our expectations. It would also make it more difficult to conduct adequate research and development and other activities necessary to commercialize our Symetron™ technologies. The market price for our common stock has experienced significant price and volume volatility and is likely to continue to experience significant volatility in the future. Such volatility may cause investors to experience dramatic declines in our stock price from time to time, may impair our ability to secure additional financing and may otherwise harm our business. The closing price of our common stock fluctuated from a low of $2.47 per share to a high of $17.09 per share from January 1, 2008 to December 31, 2008. Our stock price is likely to experience significant volatility in the future as a result of numerous factors outside of our control, including the level of short sale transactions. As a result, the market price of our stock may not reflect our intrinsic value. In addition, following periods of volatility in our stock price, there may be increased risk that securities litigation, governmental investigations or enforcement proceedings may be instituted against us. Any such litigation, and investigation or other procedures, regardless of merits, could materially harm our business and cause our stock price to decline due to potential diversion of management attention and harm to our business reputation. The volatility in our stock price could impair our ability to raise additional capital. Further, to the extent we do raise additional funds through equity financing, we may need to issue such equity at a substantial discount to the market price for our stock. This, in turn, could contribute to the volatility in our stock price. The geothermal power production development activities of our Power Systems segment may not be successful. We are devoting a substantial amount of our available resources to the power production development activities of our Power Systems segment. To date, we have placed one geothermal power plant in service, and we continue our efforts to ramp up production of that plant. However, our ability to successfully develop additional projects is uncertain. Our success in developing a particular geothermal project is contingent upon, among other things, locating and developing a viable geothermal site, negotiation of satisfactory engineering, procurement and construction agreements, negotiation of satisfactory power purchase agreements, receipt of required governmental permits, obtaining interconnection rights, obtaining transmission service rights, obtaining adequate financing, and the timely implementation and satisfactory completion of construction. We may be unsuccessful in accomplishing any of these necessary requirements or doing so on a timely basis. Generally, we must also incur significant expenses for preliminary engineering, permitting, legal fees and other expenses before we can even determine whether a project is feasible. Project financing is not typically available for these preliminary activities. Financing needed to develop geothermal power projects may be unavailable. A substantial capital investment will be necessary to develop each geothermal power project our Power Systems segment seeks to develop. Our continued access to capital through project financing or other arrangements is necessary for us to complete the geothermal power projects we plan to develop. Our attempts to secure the necessary capital on acceptable terms may not be successful. Market conditions and other factors may not permit us to obtain financing for geothermal projects on terms favorable to us. Our ability to arrange for financing on a substantially non-recourse or limited recourse basis, and the costs of such financing, are dependent on numerous factors, including general economic and capital market conditions, credit availability from banks, investor confidence, the success of our projects, the credit quality of the projects being financed, the political situation in the state in which the project is located and the continued 47 Table of Contents existence of tax and securities laws which are conducive to raising capital. If we are not able to obtain financing for our projects on a substantially non-recourse or limited recourse basis, or if we are unable to secure capital through partnership or other arrangements, we may have to finance the projects using recourse capital such as direct equity investments, which would have a dilutive effect on our common stock. Also, in the absence of favorable financing or other capital options, we may decide not to pursue certain projects. Any of these alternatives could have a material adverse effect on our growth prospects and financial condition. Other than certain excluded financings, the Commitment Letter gives Merrill Lynch the exclusive right to provide or arrange financing for up to 100 MW of substantially similar geothermal power plants we intend to develop and also has a right of first refusal with respect to the financing of an additional 55 MW of substantially similar geothermal power plants we intend to develop. Pursuant to the Commitment Letter, we have obtained project financing for our Thermo No. 1 project. Any determination on the part of Merrill Lynch to provide financing commitments is subject to the satisfaction of additional due diligence and other conditions, and the funding obligations pursuant to any existing financing commitment, are subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions precedent and various other factors, including but not limited to, satisfactory completion of due diligence, the absence of any material adverse change in our business, liabilities, operations, condition (financial or otherwise) or prospects, the execution of acceptable definitive documentation, receipt of customary legal opinions acceptable to Merrill Lynch, satisfactory market conditions and necessary approvals. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that Merrill Lynch will ultimately fund the financing commitments or provide us with additional financing commitments at any time either pursuant to the Commitment Letter or otherwise. Further, Merrill Lynch’s rights under the Commitment Letter, including its right to generally match alternative financing proposals, may make it difficult for us to obtain financing proposals from other sources. The parent of Merrill Lynch was recently acquired by Bank of America Corporation. While we do not expect this transaction to adversely affect our relationship with Merrill Lynch or our ability to obtain project financing under the Commitment Letter, we are not in a position to predict what impact, if any, this transaction might have on Merrill Lynch’s organizational structure, personnel, efficiency or existing or future commitments. Therefore, we cannot be certain that the acquisition will not adversely affect the timing or availability of the project financing arrangements contemplated by the Commitment Letter. Moreover, the United States financial markets are currently experiencing a broad-based credit crisis, which could also have an adverse effect on the timing or availability of project financing. In addition, the tax benefits originating from geothermal power projects are anticipated to provide a significant portion of the funding of the geothermal projects. This tax equity has traditionally been driven by the tax liability of the major financial industry companies. Many of these companies are currently experiencing significantly reduced income or incurring substantial losses. As a result, they are seeking fewer tax-advantaged investments and this may reduce the amount of readily available tax credit equity available for our geothermal projects. The United States Congress recently passed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the “Recovery Act”) that was subsequently signed into law by President Obama. The Recovery Act provides certain economic incentives, such as clean energy grants, that are designed to provide developers of geothermal and other clean energy projects with cash to help fund the projects. These incentives are designed, in part, to address some of the current problems in the tax equity markets and provide an alternative funding mechanism. Because this legislation is new, many of the details regarding the availability of grants or other incentives are unknown. Therefore, we cannot predict whether the Recovery Act will have a positive effect on our ability to obtain financing for our projects. 48 Table of Contents In order to finance the development of our geothermal power projects, we may transfer a portion of our equity interest in the individual projects to a third party and enter into long-term fixed price power purchase agreements. Under generally accepted accounting principles, this may result in the deconsolidation of these subsidiaries, and the reflection of only our net ownership interests in our financial statements. Each of the geothermal power projects our Power Systems segment develops will likely be owned by a separate subsidiary. The geothermal power projects developed by these subsidiaries will likely be separately financed. To obtain the financing necessary to develop the geothermal power projects, we may transfer a portion of our equity interest in the individual subsidiaries to a third party and enter into long-term fixed price power purchase agreements. Depending upon the nature of these arrangements and the application of generally accepted accounting principles, primarily Statement of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation Number 46R “Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (Revised December 2003)—an interpretation of ARB No. 51,” we may be required to deconsolidate one or more or all of these subsidiaries, which would result in our share of the net profits or loss generated by the deconsolidated entities being presented as a net amount in our financial statements. As a result, our financial statements would not reflect the gross revenues and expenses of the deconsolidated entities. However, we do not expect the effect of such deconsolidation, if required, to have an impact on our stockholders’ equity, net income/loss or income/loss per share. The financial performance of our Power Systems segment is subject to changes in the legal and regulatory environment. Our geothermal power projects will be subject to extensive regulation. Changes in applicable laws or regulations, or interpretations of those laws and regulations, could result in increased compliance costs and require additional capital expenditures. Future changes could also reduce or eliminate certain benefits that are currently available. Federal and state energy regulation is subject to frequent challenges, modifications, the imposition of additional regulatory requirements, and restructuring proposals. We may not be able to obtain or maintain all regulatory approvals or modifications to existing regulatory approvals that may be required in the future. In addition, the cost of operation and maintenance and the financial performance of geothermal power plants may be adversely affected by changes in certain laws and regulations, including tax laws. In order to promote the production of renewable energy, including geothermal energy, the federal government has created incentives within the United States Internal Revenue Code. These tax incentives are instrumental to our ability to finance and develop geothermal power plants by providing increased economic benefits. If the available tax incentives were reduced or eliminated, the economics of the projects would be reduced and there could be reductions in our overall profitability or the amount of funding available from tax equity partners. Some projects may not be viable without these tax incentives. Available federal tax incentives include intangible drilling costs, accelerated depreciation, depletion allowances and the investment tax credit (“ITC”), all of which currently are permanent features of the Internal Revenue Code. In addition, the Recovery Act recently extended the availability of the production tax credit (“PTC”) for geothermal projects placed in service before 2014 and created a new grant program for certain projects that are placed in service in, or for which construction begins in, 2009 or 2010. The ITC is claimed in the year in which the qualified project is placed in service, and the amount of the credit is a specified percentage (10% or 30%) of the eligible costs of the facility. The ITC is subject to recapture if the property eligible for the credit is sold or otherwise disposed of within five years after being placed in service. In lieu of claiming the ITC, a project owner generally can claim the PTC during the first ten years after the project is placed in service. The amount of the PTC is $21.00 (as adjusted for inflation) per megawatt hour of electricity produced from the facility and sold to unrelated parties. As extended by the Recovery Act, the PTC applies to qualifying facilities that are placed in service before 2014. Also pursuant to the Recovery Act, an owner may elect to receive a grant from the United States Treasury Department in lieu of claiming either the ITC 49 Table of Contents or the PTC. The amount of the grant is 30% of the cost of qualifying geothermal property placed in service in 2009 or 2010, or placed in service before 2014 if construction begins in 2009 or 2010. Grants are to be paid 60 days after the later of the date of the application for the grant or the date the project is placed in service. Owners of projects also are permitted to depreciate for tax purposes most of the cost of the power plant on an accelerated basis. Generally, that depreciation occurs over a five year period. Under the Recovery Act, property placed in service during 2009 generally is entitled to additional “bonus” depreciation in which 50% of the adjusted basis of the property is deducted in 2009 and the remaining 50% of the adjusted basis of the property is depreciated over the five-year accelerated tax depreciation schedule. All of these programs are subject to review and change by Congress from time to time. In addition, several of the programs are currently scheduled to expire, and continuation of those incentives will require affirmative Congressional action. Moreover, there are ambiguities as to how some of the provisions of the Recovery Act will operate, including the grant program for which there is not yet administrative guidance. Many of the tax incentives associated with geothermal power projects generally are beneficial only if the owners of the project have sufficient taxable income to utilize the deductions and credits. Due to the nature and timing of these tax incentives, it is likely that the tax incentives available in connection with our geothermal power plants will exceed our ability to efficiently utilize these tax benefits for at least several years of operations. Therefore, an important part of our strategy involves partnering with investors that are able to utilize the tax credits and other tax incentives to offset taxable income associated with their operations unrelated to our geothermal power plants. For example, a corporation in a different industry may be willing to finance the development of a geothermal power plant in consideration for receiving the benefit of the tax incentives, which it could then use to reduce the tax liability associated with its regular operations. Tax reform has the potential to have a material effect on our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. Tax reform could reduce or eliminate the value of the tax subsidies currently available to geothermal projects. Any restrictions or tightening of the rules for lease or partnership transactions, whether or not part of major tax reform, could also materially affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. In addition, changes to the Internal Revenue Code could significantly increase the regulatory-related compliance and other expenses incurred by geothermal projects which, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. Any such changes could also make it more difficult for us to obtain financing for future projects. A significant part of our business strategy is to utilize the tax and other incentives available to developers of geothermal power generating plants to attract strategic alliance partners with the capital sufficient to complete these projects. Many of the incentives available for these projects are new and highly complex. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in structuring agreements that are attractive to potential strategic alliance partners. If we are unable to do so, we may be unable to complete the development of our geothermal power projects and our business could be harmed. The exploration, development, and operation of geothermal energy resources by our Power Systems segment is subject to geological risks and uncertainties, which may result in decreased performance, increased costs, or abandonment of our projects. Our Power Systems segment is involved in the exploration, development and operation of geothermal energy resources. These activities are subject to uncertainties, which vary among different geothermal resources. These uncertainties include dry holes, flow-constrained wells, uncontrolled releases of pressure and temperature decline, and other factors, all of which can increase our operating costs and capital expenditures or reduce the efficiency of our power plants. In addition, the high temperature and high pressure in geothermal energy resources requires special resource management and monitoring. Because geothermal resources are complex geological structures, we can only estimate their geographic area. The viability of geothermal projects depends 50 Table of Contents on different factors directly related to the geothermal resource, such as the heat content (the relevant composition of temperature and pressure) of the geothermal resource, the useful life (commercially exploitable life) of the resource and operational factors relating to the extraction of geothermal fluids. Although we believe our geothermal resources will be fully renewable if managed appropriately, the geothermal resources we intend to exploit may not be sufficient for sustained generation of the anticipated electrical power capacity over time. Further, any of our geothermal resources may suffer an unexpected decline in capacity. In addition, we may fail to find commercially viable geothermal resources in the expected quantities and temperatures, which would adversely affect our development of geothermal power projects. The operation of geothermal power plants depends on the continued availability of adequate geothermal resources. Although we believe our geothermal resources will be fully renewable if managed properly, we cannot be certain that any geothermal resource will remain adequate for the life of a geothermal power plant. If the geothermal resources available to a power plant we develop become inadequate, we may be unable to perform under the power purchase agreement for the affected power plant, which in turn could reduce our revenues and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. If we suffer degradation in our geothermal resources, our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover losses sustained as a result thereof. Our Power Systems segment operations may be materially adversely affected if we fail to properly manage and maintain our geothermal resources. Our geothermal power plants use geothermal resources to generate electricity. When we develop a geothermal power plant, we conduct hydrologic and geologic studies. Based on these studies, we consider all of the geothermal resources used in our power plants to be fully renewable. Unless additional hydrologic and geologic studies confirm otherwise, there are a number of events that could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate electricity from a geothermal resource and/or shorten the operational duration of a geothermal resource, which could cause the applicable geothermal resource to become a non-renewable wasting asset. These events include: • Any increase in power generation above the amount our hydrological and geological studies indicate that the applicable geothermal resource will support; • Failure to recycle all of the geothermal fluids used in connection with the applicable geothermal resource; and • Failure to properly maintain the hydrological balance of the applicable geothermal resource. While we intend to properly manage and maintain our geothermal resources in order to ensure that they are fully renewable, our ability to do so could be subject to unforeseen risks and uncertainties beyond our control. Our Power Systems segment may be materially adversely affected if we are unable to successfully utilize certain heat transfer technologies in our geothermal power projects. Our Power Systems segment intends to utilize certain heat transfer technologies in its geothermal power projects. One of the providers of these heat transfer technologies is UTCP. UTCP’s heat transfer technologies are designed to enable the generation of power from geothermal resources that are lower in temperature than those resources used in traditional flash steam geothermal projects. UTCP’s heat transfer technologies have a limited operating history and have only been deployed in a limited number of geothermal power projects. Although we are using these technologies in our Thermo No. 1 power plant, that power plant has only been operating for a short time. As a result, we cannot be certain that UTCP’s heat transfer technologies or other vendors’ heat transfer technologies can be successfully implemented. If we are not 51 Table of Contents able to successfully utilize heat transfer technologies in our geothermal power projects and we are unable to utilize appropriate substitute technologies, we may be unable to develop our projects and our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. The costs of compliance with environmental laws and of obtaining and maintaining environmental permits and governmental approvals required for construction and/or operation of geothermal power plants are substantial, and any non-compliance with such laws or regulations may result in the imposition of liabilities, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. Our geothermal power projects are required to comply with numerous federal, regional, state and local statutory and regulatory environmental standards. Geothermal projects must also maintain numerous environmental permits and governmental approvals required for construction and/or operation. Environmental permits and governmental approvals typically contain conditions and restrictions, including restrictions or limits on emissions and discharges of pollutants and contaminants, or may have limited terms. If we fail to satisfy these conditions or comply with these restrictions, or we fail to comply with any statutory or regulatory environmental standards, we may become subject to a regulatory enforcement action and the operation of the projects could be adversely affected or be subject to fines, penalties or additional costs. The geothermal power projects developed by our Power Systems segment could expose us to significant liability for violations of hazardous substances laws because of the use or presence of such substances. The geothermal power projects developed by our Power Systems segment will be subject to numerous federal, regional, state and local statutory and regulatory standards relating to the use, storage and disposal of hazardous substances. We may use industrial lubricants, water treatment chemicals and other substances at our projects that could be classified as hazardous substances. If any hazardous substances are found to have been released into the environment at or near the projects, we could become liable for the investigation and removal of those substances, regardless of their source and time of release. If we fail to comply with these laws, ordinances or regulations or any change thereto, we could be subject to civil or criminal liability, the imposition of liens or fines, and large expenditures to bring the projects into compliance. Furthermore, we can be held liable for the cleanup of releases of hazardous substances at other locations where we arranged for disposal of those substances, even if we did not cause the release at that location. The cost of any remediation activities in connection with a spill or other release of such substances could be significant. Our Transportation & Industrial segment may be unable to successfully license our intellectual property. A significant part of our long-term business strategy for our Transportation & Industrial segment is based upon the licensing of our SymetronTM technologies to electric motor, controller, alternator and generator manufacturers, suppliers and system integrators. We expect the sales cycle with respect to the licensing of our technology to be lengthy, and there can be no assurance that we will achieve meaningful licensing revenues in the time frames that we expect. Our SymetronTM technologies are relatively new and commercially unproven. While we have completed some laboratory testing, our technologies have not yet been durability tested for long-term applications. We can provide no assurance that our technologies will prove suitable for our target business segments. Our potential product applications require significant and lengthy product development efforts. To date, we have not developed any commercially available products. It may be years before our technology is proven viable, if at all. During our product development process, we may experience technological issues that we may be unable to overcome. Superior competitive technologies may be introduced or potential customer needs may change resulting in our technology or products being unsuitable for commercialization. Because of these uncertainties, our efforts to license our technologies may not succeed. We are currently focusing on commercializing our SymetronTM technologies in the transportation and industrial markets. We cannot predict the rate at which market acceptance of our technologies will develop in 52 Table of Contents these markets, if at all. Additionally, we may focus our product commercialization activities on a particular industry or industries, which may not develop as rapidly as other industries, if at all. The commercialization of our products or the licensing of our intellectual property in an industry or industries that are not developing as rapidly as other industries could harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. The demand for our technologies may be dependent on government regulations and policies such as standards for Corporate Average Fuel Economy, or CAFE, Renewable Portfolio Standards, or RPS, the Clean Air Act and Section 45 of the Internal Revenue Code. Changes in these regulations and policies could have a negative impact on the demand for the power we plan to generate and our technologies. Any new government regulations or policies pertaining to our products or technologies may result in significant additional expenses to us and our potential customers and could cause a significant reduction in demand for our technologies and thereby significantly harm our Transportation & Industrial segment. The recent economic downturn has had a dramatic, adverse effect on the automotive industry and other large industrial manufacturers that would be in a position to use and benefit from our technologies. As a result, we believe our ability to commercialize our Symetron™ technologies will be limited until economic conditions improve. We intend to evaluate the prospects for our Transportation & Industrial segment on an ongoing basis. If we believe there are attractive opportunities, we will devote the resources to pursue those opportunities to the extent we believe appropriate. If, on the other hand, we determine that the risks and uncertainties for this business segment are too great in light of the current economic climate, we may choose to further reduce the resources devoted to these efforts. We may also be required to develop a new long-term business strategy for the Transportation & Industrial segment or discontinue operating this business segment. We may not be able to enforce or protect the intellectual property that our Transportation & Industrial segment is seeking to license. The success of our Transportation & Industrial segment is dependent upon protecting our proprietary technology. We rely primarily on a combination of copyright, patent, trade secret and trademark laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. These laws, procedures and provisions provide only limited protection. We have applied for patent protection on most of our key technologies. We cannot be certain that our six issued United States patents, seven pending United States patent applications, four pending international patent applications and one pending foreign patent applications will result in issued patents or that the claims allowed are or will be sufficiently broad to protect the inventions derived from our technology or prove to be enforceable in actions against alleged infringers. Also, additional patent applications that we may file for our current and future technologies may not be issued. We have received three trademark registrations in the United States and ten trademark registrations internationally. We have also applied for five additional trademark registrations in the United States and one additional trademark registration internationally which may never be granted. The contractual provisions we rely on to protect our trade secrets and proprietary information, such as our confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with our employees, consultants and other third parties, may be breached and our trade secrets and proprietary information may be disclosed to the public. Despite precautions that we take, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy aspects of our technology or products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. In particular, we may provide our licensees with access to proprietary information underlying our licensed applications which they may improperly appropriate. Additionally, our competitors may independently design around patents and other proprietary rights we hold. Policing unauthorized use of our technology may be difficult and some foreign laws do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as United States laws. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention resulting in significant harm to our business. 53 Table of Contents If third parties assert that our current or future products infringe their proprietary rights, we could incur costs and damages associated with these claims, whether the claims have merit or not, which could significantly harm our business. Any future claims could harm our relationships with existing or potential customers. In addition, in any potential dispute involving our intellectual property, our existing or potential customers could also become the targets of litigation, which could trigger indemnification obligations under license and service agreements and harm our customer relationships. If we unsuccessfully defend an infringement claim, we may lose our intellectual property rights, which could require us to obtain licenses which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. We license patented intellectual property rights from third party owners. If such owners do not properly maintain or enforce the patents underlying such licenses, our competitive position and business prospects could be harmed. Our licensors may also seek to terminate our licenses. We are a party to licenses that give us rights to third-party intellectual property that is necessary or useful to our business. Our success will depend in part on the ability of our licensors to obtain, maintain and enforce our licensed intellectual property. Our licensors may not successfully prosecute the patent applications to which we have licenses. Even if patents are issued in respect of these patent applications, our licensors may fail to maintain these patents, may determine not to pursue litigation against other companies that are infringing these patents, or may pursue such litigation less aggressively than we would. Without protection for the intellectual property we license, other companies might be able to offer substantially identical products for sale, which could adversely affect our competitive business position and harm our business prospects. Our licensors may allege that we have breached our license agreement with them, and accordingly seek to terminate our license. If successful, this could result in our loss of the right to use the licensed intellectual property, which could adversely affect our ability to commercialize our technologies, products or services, as well as harm our competitive business position and our business prospects. Our Transportation & Industrial segment could incur significant expenses if products built with our technology contain defects. If our Transportation & Industrial segment successfully licenses our technology, products built with that technology may result in product liability lawsuits for any defects that they may contain. Detection of any significant defects may result in, among other things, loss of, or delay in, market acceptance and sales of our technology, diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation, or increased service and warranty costs. A material product liability claim could significantly harm our business, result in unexpected expenses and damage our reputation. We face significant competition in each of our business segments. If we fail to compete effectively, our business will suffer. Our Power Systems segment faces significant competition from other companies seeking to develop the geothermal opportunities available. Some of our competitors for geothermal projects have substantial capabilities and greater financial and technical resources than we do. As a result, we may be unable to acquire additional geothermal resources or projects on terms acceptable to us. Our Power Systems segment also competes with producers of energy from other renewable sources. This competition may make it more difficult for us to enter into power purchase agreements for our projects on terms that are acceptable to us. We believe our Transportation & Industrial segment will face significant competition from existing manufacturers, including motor, controller, alternator, and transportation vehicle companies. We may also face significant competition from our future partners. These partners may have better access to information regarding 54 Table of Contents their own manufacturing processes, which may enable them to develop products that can be more easily incorporated into their products. If our potential partners improve or develop technology that competes directly with our technology, our business will be harmed. In each of our business segments, we face competition from companies that have access to substantially greater financial, engineering, manufacturing and other resources than we do, which may enable them to react more effectively to new market opportunities. Many of our competitors may also have greater name recognition and market presence than we do, which may allow them to market themselves more effectively to new customers or partners. We may pursue strategic acquisitions that could have an adverse impact on our business. Our success depends on our ability to execute our business strategies. Our Power Systems segment is seeking to develop geothermal power plants. Our Transportation & Industrial segment is seeking to license our intellectual property to electric motor and controller manufacturers, suppliers and system integrators. Executing these strategies may involve entering into strategic transactions to acquire complementary businesses or technologies. In executing these strategic transactions, we may expend significant financial and management resources and incur other significant costs and expenses. There is no assurance that the execution of any strategic transactions will result in additional revenues or other strategic benefits for either of our business segments. The failure to enter into strategic transactions, if doing so would enable us to better execute our business strategies, could also harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We may issue company stock as consideration for acquisitions, joint ventures or other strategic transactions, and the use of common stock as purchase consideration could dilute each of our current stockholder’s interests. In addition, we may obtain debt financing in connection with an acquisition. Any such debt financing could involve restrictive covenants relating to capital-raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. In addition, such debt financing may impair our ability to obtain future additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate or other purposes, and a substantial portion of cash flows, if any, from our operations may be dedicated to interest payments and debt repayment, thereby reducing the funds available to us for other purposes and could make us more vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures. If we are unable to effectively and efficiently maintain our controls and procedures to avoid deficiencies, there could be a material adverse effect on our operations or financial results. As a publicly-traded company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. These requirements may place a strain on our systems and resources. Our management is required to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of each year end, and we are required to disclose management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, including any “material weakness” (within the meaning of Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or PCAOB, Auditing Standard No. 5) in our internal control over financial reporting. On an on-going basis, we are reviewing, documenting and testing our internal control procedures. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight will be required. No material weaknesses were identified in connection with the audit of our 2008 financial statements. However, weaknesses or deficiencies could be identified in the future. If we fail to adequately address any deficiencies, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Ultimately, if not corrected, any deficiencies could prevent us from releasing our financial information and periodic reports in a timely manner, making the required certifications regarding, and complying with our other obligations with respect to our consolidated financial statements and internal controls under the Sarbanes-Oxley 55 Table of Contents Act. Any failure to maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting and provide accurate financial statements may subject us to litigation and would cause the trading price of our common stock to decrease substantially. Inferior controls and procedures could also subject us to a risk of delisting by the New York Stock Exchange and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. If we fail to comply with the New York Stock Exchange listing standards and maintain our listing on the New York Stock Exchange, our business could be materially harmed and our stock price could decline. Our shares of common stock are listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, national securities exchanges, including the New York Stock Exchange, have adopted more stringent listing requirements. Although we have been approved to list shares of common stock on the New York Stock Exchange, we may not be able to maintain our compliance with all of the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange. Any failure by us to maintain our listing on the New York Stock Exchange could materially harm our business, cause our stock price to decline, and make it more difficult for our stockholders to sell their shares. We rely on key personnel and the loss of key personnel or the inability to attract, train, and retain key personnel could have a negative effect on our business. We believe our future success will depend to a significant extent on the continued service of our executive officers and other key personnel. Of particular importance to our continued operations are our executive management and technical staff. We do not have key person life insurance for any of our executive officers, technical staff or other employees. If we lose the services of one or more of our executive officers or key employees, or if one or more of them decide to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us, our business could be harmed. In recent years we have experienced turnover in certain key positions. Our future success also depends on our ability to attract, train, retain and motivate highly skilled technical and sales personnel. Since we have limited resources to attract qualified personnel, we may not be successful in recruiting, training, and retaining personnel in the future, which would impair our ability to maintain and grow our business. Our limited cash resources have in the past required us to rely heavily on equity compensation to hire and retain key personnel, and we expect this to continue in the future. This practice may result in significant non-cash compensation expenses and dilution to our stockholders. The large number of shares eligible for public sale could cause our stock price to decline. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of the resale of shares of common stock that were previously restricted under Rule 144. In addition, if our officers, directors or employees sell previously restricted shares for tax, estate planning, portfolio management or other purposes, such sales could be viewed negatively by investors and put downward pressure on our stock price. Approximately 40.6 million shares were free of restrictive legend as of December 31, 2008, up from approximately 29.9 million and 19.4 million as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The occurrence of such sales, or the perception that such sales could occur, may cause our stock price to decline. Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in United States generally accepted accounting principles. United States generally accepted accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC, and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these 56 Table of Contents principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our financial results. For example, prior to January 1, 2007, we were not required to record liabilities relating to uncertainties in our income tax positions until a determination was made by the IRS disallowing the deductions. However, for periods after January 1, 2007 we are required to determine whether it is more-likely-than-not that a tax position is sustainable and measure the tax position to recognize in the financial statements in accordance with recent accounting pronouncements. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. On August 19, 2008, we received a comment letter from the Securities and Exchange Commission Staff (the “Staff”) related to a review of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, as amended. We have exchanged correspondence with the Staff several times, and we are in the process of responding to the most recently received correspondence from the Staff. In its most recent correspondence, the Staff’s comments related generally to our disclosures regarding our geothermal resources and related property interests, the status of our geothermal power projects and the various development activities, and the accounting policies applied to our geothermal projects and related financing arrangements. We believe we have addressed the Staff’s material comments in this filing. However, the Staff’s review of our filings is not complete, and the Staff may have further comments. 