ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors and Forward-Looking Statements The discussion set forth in this Form 10-K contains statements concerning potential future events. Such forward-looking statements are based on assumptions by our management, as of the date of this Form 10-K, including, without limitation, assumptions about risks and uncertainties faced by us. Readers can identify these forward-looking statements by their use of such verbs as "expects," "anticipates," "believes," or similar verbs or conjugations of such verbs. If any of management's assumptions prove incorrect or should unanticipated circumstances arise, our actual results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements could materially differ from those anticipated by such forward-looking statements. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are those discussed below in this Form 10-K. We will not update any forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K to reflect future events or developments. If we do not successfully address the risks described below, our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow could be materially adversely affected. The trading price of our Common Stock could decline because of any of these risks. Risks Relating to Our Business Our business has incurred net losses since inception and may continue to incur losses. Our business has a history of net losses. As of December 31, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $2.1 billion, total stockholders' deficit of approximately $151.0 million, and goodwill of approximately $314.0 million. We cannot assure you that we sustain an operating profit or a positive cash flow. If we are not able to do so, the trading price of our Common Stock may fall significantly. To diminish our losses, to continue to be profitable before interest expense and to continue to generate a positive cash flow, we will need to increase our advertising and subscriber revenue. This will require, among other things, maintaining or increasing the distribution of our Channels, attracting younger viewers to our channels, attracting more advertisers, increasing our ratings and maintaining or increasing our subscriber and advertising rates. Risks associated with these areas of our business are described below. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health, and the restrictions imposed by the terms of our debt instruments may severely limit our ability to plan for or respond to changes in our business. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2010, our total debt was $417.7 million, and we had $30.6 million of cash and cash equivalents and $30.0 million available under our bank credit facility to support our operations. As a result of our present level of debt and the terms of our debt instruments: •our vulnerability to adverse general economic conditions is heightened; •we are required to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to repayment of debt, limiting the availability of cash for other purposes; 21 Table of Contents •we are, and will continue to be, limited by financial and other restrictive covenants in our ability to borrow additional funds, consummate asset sales, enter into transactions with affiliates or conduct mergers and acquisitions; •our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry will be limited; •our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes may be impaired; and •offers to purchase the Company or its assets at prices that may be attractive to stockholders may be limited. Our ability to meet our debt and other obligations will depend on our operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive and other factors. There can be no assurance that our leverage and such restrictions will not materially and adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. We have significant interest payments, which may impact our future operations. The Recapitalization significantly reduced our outstanding indebtedness and interest expense; nevertheless, even with the Recapitalization, there is still substantial indebtedness. A substantial portion of our cash flow from operations has and will continue to be used to make interest payments and will not be available for other business purposes. In addition, we may need to incur additional indebtedness in the future. We cannot be assured that our business will generate sufficient cash flow or that future financings will be available to provide sufficient proceeds to meet our obligations or to service our total debt. Our liquidity is dependent on external funds. Although in the past twelve months we generated positive cash flow from operations, unanticipated significant expense or any developments that hamper our growth in revenue or decreases any of our revenue, may result in the need for additional external funds in order to continue operations. Any new debt financing would require the cooperation and agreement of existing lenders. "Most Favored Nations" provisions may require modification of existing distribution agreements which could adversely affect subscriber revenue. A number of our existing distribution agreements contain "most favored nations" or "MFN" clauses. These clauses typically provide that, in the event we enter into an agreement with another distributor on more favorable terms, these terms must be offered to the distributor holding the MFN right, subject to certain exceptions and conditions. These clauses cover matters such as subscriber fees, launch support, local advertising time and other financial and operating provisions. In the past, after entering into new distribution agreements, we have been asked by some of the distributors holding MFN rights to modify their distribution agreements to incorporate financial terms similar to those in the new agreements. Any claims of this type in the future could result in lower overall subscriber revenue or increased cash outlays; however, if our subscription base is increased as a result of such modifications, it could result in higher advertising revenue. 22 Table of Contents If we are unable to obtain programming from third parties, we may be unable to increase our subscriber base. We compete with other pay television channel providers to acquire programming. If we fail to continue to obtain programming on reasonable terms for any reason, including as a result of competition, we could be forced to incur additional costs to acquire such programming or look for alternative programming, which may hinder the growth of our subscriber base. If our programming declines in popularity, our subscriber fees and advertising revenue could fall. Our success depends partly upon unpredictable and volatile factors beyond our control, such as viewer preferences, competing programming and the availability of other entertainment activities. We may not be able to anticipate and react effectively to shifts in tastes and interests in our markets. Our competitors may have greater numbers of original productions, better distribution, and greater capital resources, and may be able to react more quickly to shifts in tastes and interests. As a result, we may be unable to maintain the commercial success of any of our current programming, or to generate sufficient demand and market acceptance for our new programming. A shift in viewer preferences in programming or alternative entertainment activities could also cause a decline in both advertising and subscriber fees revenue. The decline in revenue could hinder or prevent us from achieving profitability or maintaining a positive cash flow and could adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. We experienced declines in viewer ratings across demographic categories, compared to the same periods of 2009, resulting in decreases in advertising revenues and cash flows. A number of changes to our program schedule were implemented in the third quarter of 2010. These changes have caused a temporary disruption to established viewing patterns for our audience resulting in declines in household ratings but over time are intended to increase our delivery of viewers in the women 25-54 demographic category. We are considering further changes in our programming that may be helpful to our ratings. We must successfully implement the program rescheduling with an increase in ratings, which is uncertain, or otherwise address the decrease in ratings in order to maintain or increase our advertising revenues, to maintain subscriber fees and to maintain or improve our cash flow from operations. In addition, our delivery of the Channels continues to be impacted by industry developments. One potentially significant factor is the continued growth of time-shifting digital video recording devices (DVRs). DVRs heighten the impact of competition as viewers are able to increase their access to what they consider to be new, compelling content. If we are unable to increase our advertising revenue, we may be unable to achieve improved results. Although it is expected over time that our advertising revenue will increase, if we fail to significantly increase our advertising revenue, we may be unable to achieve or sustain improved results or to expand our business. A failure to increase advertising revenue may be a result of any or all of the following: (i) a continued decline in viewer ratings mentioned above; (ii) the current economic environment presents uncertainty regarding the condition of the advertising marketplace and the financial health of many industry segments and individual companies, including those which advertise on our channels; (iii) we may be unable to reduce our average viewer age to be within our target audience of viewers between the ages of 25 and 54; (iv) we may be unable to identify, attract and retain experienced sales and marketing personnel with relevant experience; (v) our sales and marketing organization may be unable to successfully compete against the significantly more extensive and well-funded sales and marketing operations of our current or potential competitors; (vi) the advancement of technologies such as Digital Video Recording may cause advertisers to shift their expenditures to media in which their commercial messages are not circumvented by the technology; and/or (vii) we will not be able to increase our advertising sales rate-card or may be required to run additional advertising spots to fulfill guaranteed delivery numbers which affect the availability of 23 Table of Contents advertising inventory for future sales. Success in increasing our advertising revenue also depends upon the number and coverage of the distributors who carry our channels and our number of subscribers. Hallmark Cards controls us and this control could create conflicts of interest or inhibit potential changes of control. Hallmark Cards, through HCC, its wholly-owned subsidiary, owns all of our outstanding shares of Preferred Stock and owns approximately 90.3% of the outstanding shares of our Common Stock, representing in the aggregate approximately 91.9% of the outstanding voting power on all matters submitted to our stockholders. Additionally, a significant portion of our overall indebtedness is held by Hallmark Cards or its wholly-owned affiliates. This control could discourage others from initiating potential merger, takeover or other change of control transactions that may otherwise be beneficial to our business or holders of Common Stock. As a result, the market price of our Common Stock could suffer, and our business could suffer. In addition, the control that Hallmark Cards and/or these specific wholly-owned affiliates may exert over us, either directly or indirectly, could give rise to conflicts of interest in certain situations. We could lose the right to use the name "Hallmark" because we have limited-duration license agreements, which could harm our business. We license the name "Hallmark" from Hallmark Licensing, Inc., a subsidiary of Hallmark Cards, for use in the names of our Channels. This license will expire on September 1, 2011. If Hallmark Cards determines not to renew the trademark license agreements for any reason, including failure to comply with Hallmark Cards' programming standards, we would be forced to significantly revise our business plan and operations, and could experience a significant erosion of our subscriber base and advertising revenue. If our third-party suppliers fail to provide us with network infrastructure services on a timely basis, our costs could increase and our growth could be hindered. We currently rely on third parties to supply key network infrastructure services, including uplink, playback, transmission and satellite services to our market, which are available only from limited sources. We have occasionally experienced outages, delays and other problems in receiving communications equipment, services and facilities and may, in the future, be unable to obtain such services, equipment or facilities on the scale and within the time frames required by us on terms we find acceptable, or at all. If we are unable to obtain, or if we experience a delay in the delivery of, such services, we may be forced to incur significant unanticipated expenses to secure alternative third party suppliers or adjust our operations, which could hinder our growth and reduce our revenue and potential profitability. If we are unable to retain key executives and other personnel, our growth could be inhibited and our business harmed. Our success depends on the expertise and continued service of our executive officers and key employees of our subsidiaries. If we fail to attract, hire or retain the necessary personnel, or if we lose the services of our key executives, we may be unable to implement our business plan or keep pace with developing trends in our industry. The amount of our goodwill may hinder our ability to achieve profitability. As a result of our acquisitions of all the common interests in Crown Media United States, we have recorded a significant amount of goodwill. We are required to periodically review whether the value of 24 Table of Contents our goodwill has been impaired. If we are required to write down our goodwill, our results of operations, stockholders' equity (deficit) could be materially adversely affected. Our stock price may be volatile and could decline substantially. The stock market has, from time to time, experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Many factors may cause the market price for our Common Stock to decline, including the following: •failure of our operating results to meet the expectations of investors in any quarter; •economic conditions that adversely affect our advertising rates or our number of subscribers; •material announcements by us or our competitors; •governmental regulatory action; •technological innovations by competitors or competing technologies; •perceptions by the investing community or our customers with respect to the prospects of our company or our industry; •changes in general market conditions or economic trends; and •failure by us to renew major distribution agreements. Additionally, of the approximately 359.7 million shares of the Company's outstanding Common Stock, only 34.8 million shares (approximately 9.7%), are held by non-affiliates of the Company. This stock ownership structure may also be a cause of volatility in the market price of the Company's Common Stock. Risks Relating to Our Industry The recent change in the television rating system in the United States could reduce our Channels revenue and our ability to achieve profitability. Our domestic advertising revenue is partially dependent on television ratings provided by Nielsen Media Research. In 2007, Nielsen modified its ratings system by increasing its household sample size. In the fourth quarter of 2007, Nielsen began measuring and providing performance data based on viewing of commercial content as well as programming content. As the impact of the changes continue to take effect, our ratings could either be positively or negatively affected by these changes, depending on the demographic characteristics of the households added to the Nielsen sample and the nature of the changes in the measurement systems. From the beginning of the fourth quarter of 2007 through the fourth quarter of 2008, we experienced a decrease in viewers of approximately 5% under the new ratings measurement system compared to the system previously in use. We continue to factor the new rating information into our advertising rates as Nielsen is continually in the process of modifying its ratings system to accommodate emerging technologies. Competition could reduce our Channels revenue and our ability to achieve profitability. We operate in the pay television business, which is highly competitive. If we are unable to compete effectively with large diversified entertainment companies that have substantially greater resources than we have, our operating margins and market share could be reduced, and the growth of our business inhibited. In particular, we compete for distribution with other pay television channels and, when distribution is obtained, for viewers and advertisers with pay television channels, broadcast television networks, radio, the Internet and other media. We also compete, to varying degrees, with other leisure-time activities such as movie theaters, the Internet, radio, print media, electronic games and 25 Table of Contents other alternative sources of entertainment and information. Future technological developments may affect competition within this business. A continuing trend towards business combinations and alliances in the communications industry may create significant new competitors for us or intensify existing competition. Many of these combined entities have more than one channel and resources far greater than ours. These combined entities may provide bundled packages of programming, delivery and other services that compete directly with the products we offer. We may need to reduce our prices or license additional programming to remain competitive, and we may be unable to sustain future pricing levels as competition increases. Our failure to achieve or sustain market acceptance of our programming at desired pricing levels could impair our ability to achieve profitability or positive cash flow, which would harm our business. Distributors in the United States may attempt to pressure pay TV channels having lower viewership, such as our Channels, to accept decreasing amounts for subscriber fees, to pay higher subscriber acquisition fees or to allow carriage of the Channels without the payment of subscriber fees. Factors that may lead to this pressure include the number of competing pay TV channels, the limited space available on services of distributors in the United States and the desire of distributors to maintain or reduce costs. Any reduction in subscriber fees revenue now or in the future could have a material impact on our operating results and cash flow. New distribution technologies may fundamentally change the way we distribute our Channels and could significantly decrease our revenue or require us to incur significant capital expenditures. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and adapt to technological changes and to offer, on a timely basis, services that meet customer demands and evolving industry standards. The pay television industry has been, and is likely to continue to be, subject to: •rapid and significant technological change, including continuing developments in technology which do not presently have widely accepted standards; and •frequent introductions of new services and alternative technologies, including new technologies for providing video services. For example, the advent of digital technology is likely to accelerate the convergence of broadcast, telecommunications, Internet and other media and could result in material changes in the economics, regulations, intellectual property usage and technical platforms on which our business relies, including lower retail rates for video services. These changes could fundamentally affect the scale, source, and volatility of our revenue streams, cost structures, and operating results, and may require us to significantly change our operations. We also rely in part on third parties for the development of, and access to, communications and network technology. As a result, we may be unable to obtain access to new technology on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms, which could harm our business and prospects. Moreover, the increased capacity of digital distribution platforms, including the introduction of digital terrestrial television, may reduce the competition for the right to carry channels and allow development of extra services at low incremental cost. These lower incremental costs could lower barriers to entry for competing channels, and place pressure on our operating margins and market position. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 26 Table of Contents 