Item 1A. Risk Factors, and in our SEC filings that we believe could cause actual results or events to differ materially from the forward-looking statements that we make. These and other risks are also detailed and occasionally modified or updated in our reports filed from time to time under the Securities Act and/or the Exchange Act. You are encouraged to read these filings as they are made. Further, any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement or statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict which factors will arise. In addition, we cannot assess the impact of each factor on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. ii Table of Contents PART I In this report, all references to “Ardea,” “we,” “our,” and “us,” refer to Ardea Biosciences, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and our wholly owned subsidiary. In December 2006, Ardea changed its name from IntraBiotics Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ITEM 1. BUSINESS. Overview and Business Strategy Ardea Biosciences, Inc., of San Diego, California, is a biotechnology company focused on the discovery and development of small-molecule therapeutics for the treatment of gout, human immunodeficiency virus, or HIV, cancer and inflammatory diseases. We are currently pursuing multiple development programs, including the following: Product Portfolio Product Candidate Target Indication Development Status RDEA594 Gout Phase 1 ongoing RDEA806 HIV Phase 2a completed RDEA427 HIV Phase 0* completed RDEA119 Cancer Phase 1 and Phase 1/2 ongoing RDEA119 Inflammation Phase 1 completed RDEA436 Inflammation Phase 0* completed * First-in-human micro-dose pharmacokinetic study in normal healthy volunteers. GOUT RDEA594 RDEA594 is an inhibitor of URAT1, a transporter in the kidney which regulates uric acid excretion from the body. RDEA594 has been well tolerated in Phase 1 studies to date in normal healthy volunteers and has demonstrated significant dose-related decreases in serum uric acid of up to 30% over the first 24 hours after administration of single ascending doses. We are currently evaluating RDEA594 in a multiple ascending dose Phase 1 study in normal healthy volunteers. We plan to complete this study in the first quarter of 2009. We also plan to initiate a Phase 2 dose-ranging study of RDEA594 in gout patients in the first half of 2009, with the goal of completing that study by the end of 2009. We are also conducting a pilot Phase 2a proof-of-concept study of RDEA806, RDEA594’s prodrug, in gout patients to provide an early confirmation of RDEA594’s activity in the target population. In Phase 1 studies of RDEA806 in normal healthy volunteers, increased urinary excretion of uric acid was observed in the first 24 hours after dosing, with statistically significant, exposure-dependent decreases in serum uric acid of 35% to 50% observed during multiple dosing out to 14 days. We plan to complete the Phase 2a study in the first quarter of 2009 and do not plan any further studies of RDEA806 in gout. HIV RDEA806 RDEA806 is our lead non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor, or NNRTI, for the treatment of HIV. In vitro preclinical tests have shown RDEA806 to be a potent inhibitor of a wide range of HIV viral isolates, including isolates that are resistant to efavirenz (SUSTIVA®/Stocrin® from Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and Merck & Co., Inc.), the most widely prescribed NNRTI, in addition to other currently available NNRTIs. In vitro preclinical tests have also shown RDEA806 to have a high genetic barrier to resistance. In vivo preclinical tests suggest that RDEA806 does not pose a risk of reproductive toxicity. Based on both preclinical and clinical data, we anticipate that RDEA806 could be amenable to a once-daily oral dosing regimen, may have limited pharmacokinetic interactions with other drugs and may be readily co-formulated in a single pill with other HIV antiviral 1 Table of Contents drugs, such as Truvada® (emtricitabine and tenofovir from Gilead Sciences, Inc.), which is important for patient compliance and efficacy. RDEA806 has successfully completed Phase 1 and Phase 2a studies and has been evaluated in over 250 subjects. Results from a Phase 2a monotherapy proof-of-concept study of RDEA806 demonstrated placebo-adjusted plasma viral load reductions of up to 2.0 log10 on day 8 with once-daily dosing of RDEA806. In addition, all dosing regimens tested were well tolerated. We have continued preparing RDEA806 for further clinical development by obtaining additional regulatory approvals to conduct our planned international Phase 2b HIV trial and by successfully completing a number of important preparatory safety and supportive toxicology studies including a Thorough QT study. Results from the Thorough QT study demonstrated that QTc intervals were not increased by any dose of RDEA806 tested. In addition, the study provided information on the lack of pharmacokinetic differences between Caucasians and African-Americans. These results provide further support for RDEA806’s cardiac safety profile as well as its potential to improve current standard-of-care therapy as ethnicity-based differences in metabolism, which can lead to increased side effects in African-Americans, have been documented with efavirenz (Sustiva®, Bristol-Myers Squibb). RDEA427 The lead compound in our next generation NNRTI program, RDEA427, is from a chemical class that is distinct from the RDEA806 chemical class. Based on early preclinical data, we believe that RDEA427 may share certain of the positive attributes of RDEA806, but may also have even greater activity against a wide range of drug-resistant viral isolates. We have evaluated RDEA427, in a human micro-dose pharmacokinetic study and have selected it for clinical development based on a plasma half-life of greater than 40 hours. The timing of future studies of RDEA806 and RDEA427 will be determined in part by the results of our partnering efforts. CANCER RDEA119 RDEA119, our lead mitogen-activated ERK kinase, or MEK, inhibitor for the treatment of cancer, is a potent and selective inhibitor of MEK, which is believed to play an important role in cancer cell proliferation, apoptosis and metastasis. In vivo preclinical tests have shown RDEA119 to have potent anti-tumor activity. Data from an ongoing Phase 1 study of RDEA119 in advanced cancer patients suggests that RDEA119 has a pharmacokinetic profile allowing for convenient once-daily oral dosing. Once the maximum tolerated dose is determined, we plan to evaluate the activity of RDEA119 in advanced cancer patients with selected tumor types, such as hepatocellular, sarcoma, glioma, non-small cell lung, colon, pancreatic or thyroid cancer or melanoma. In addition, preclinical in vitro and in vivo studies of RDEA119 have demonstrated synergistic activity across multiple tumor types when RDEA119 is used in combination with other anti-cancer agents, including sorafenib (Nexavar® from Onyx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Bayer HealthCare AG). We are currently conducting a Phase 1/2 study of RDEA119 in combination with sorafenib in advanced cancer patients to evaluate the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics and anti-tumor activity of this combination therapy. INFLAMMATION RDEA119 In vivo preclinical tests have also shown RDEA119 to significantly inhibit production of inflammatory cytokines. Results from a completed Phase 1 study in normal healthy volunteers demonstrated that RDEA119 was well tolerated with a pharmacokinetic profile allowing for convenient once-daily oral dosing. RDEA436 The lead compound in our next generation MEK inhibitor program, RDEA436, is from a chemical class that is distinct from the RDEA119 chemical class. Based on early preclinical data, we believe that RDEA436 may potentially share certain of the positive attributes of RDEA119, and may have even greater potency than RDEA119. 2 Table of Contents We have evaluated RDEA436 in a Phase 0 study and have selected it for clinical development. We received regulatory approval in December 2008 to initiate a Phase 1 study of RDEA436 evaluating safety, pharmacokinetics and inflammatory disease biomarkers in normal healthy volunteers. The timing of future studies of RDEA119 and RDEA436 for inflammatory diseases will be determined in part by the results of our partnering efforts. Market Opportunity We believe that there is a significant market opportunity for our products, should they be successfully developed, approved and commercialized. We believe that there is a significant need for new products for the treatment and prevention of gout, a painful and debilitating disease caused by abnormally elevated levels of uric acid. There has been only one new drug approved in the United States for the treatment of gout in the last 40 years. According to the National Arthritis Data Workgroup, an estimated 6.1 million adults in the United States in 2005 had experienced at least one episode of gout. The incidence and severity of gout is increasing in the United States. According to the Annals of Rheumatic Diseases there was a 288% increase in gout-related hospitalizations from 1988-2005 and over $11.2 billion in gout-related hospital costs were incurred in 2005 in the United States. In addition, according to a 2008 Nerac Inc. survey, approximately 5.0 million patients in the European Union suffer from gout. Many chronic gout sufferers are unable to achieve target reductions in uric acid with current treatments. Approximately 80% to 90% of gout patients are “under excretors” of uric acid. Scientists have recently discovered defects in multiple transporters in the kidney that play important roles in uric acid transport and are genetically linked to a higher risk of gout. URAT1 has been identified as the most important transporter for uric acid. We are developing products for the treatment of hyperuricemia and gout that inhibit URAT1, thereby increasing the excretion of uric acid and lowering serum uric acid levels. In addition, we believe there may be opportunities to develop uric acid-lowering agents to treat diseases other than gout. Evidence suggests that the chronic elevation of uric acid associated with gout, known as hyperuricemia, may also have systemic consequences, including an increased risk for kidney dysfunction, elevated CRP, hypertension and possibly other cardiovascular risk factors. In 2007, sales of HIV antivirals in the seven major drug markets (the United States, Japan, France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom) were approximately $9.3 billion and are expected to reach $15.1 billion in 2017, according to Datamonitor. While the treatment of HIV has improved dramatically over the past decade, we believe that there remains a significant need for new treatments that are effective against drug-resistant virus, safer for women and African-Americans, well tolerated and convenient to take. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), 56,300 people were newly infected with HIV in 2006, 40% more than estimated previously. African-Americans accounted for more than 45% of the new infections. Women account for 27% of the new infections. We are developing products for the treatment of HIV that are highly active against resistant strains, have a high genetic barrier to resistance, have a better safety profile than current drugs in African-Americans and women, can be taken once a day, and are easy to formulate in a combination pill with current drugs. We also believe that there is growing interest in the potential for targeted therapies, including kinase inhibitors, for the treatment of both cancer and inflammatory disease. Sales of products used in the treatment of cancer were expected to exceed $45.0 billion in 2008, according to IMS Health Incorporated, fueled by strong acceptance of innovative and effective targeted therapies. The failure rate of kinase inhibitor compounds in clinical development in oncology is only 53% versus 82% in the oncology field as a whole. In 2007, the worldwide market for targeted therapies for inflammatory diseases was more than $8.6 billion. Given the role that MEK appears to play in cancer and inflammatory diseases and the increasing preference for oral therapies, we believe that RDEA119 and our next generation MEK inhibitors, if successfully developed, approved and commercialized, could participate in these growing markets. Valeant Relationship On December 21, 2006, we acquired intellectual property and other assets from Valeant Research & Development, Inc. related to RDEA806 and our next generation NNRTI program, and RDEA119 and our next generation MEK inhibitor program. Concurrent with the closing of the acquisition from Valeant, we hired a new senior management team and changed our name from IntraBiotics Pharmaceuticals, Inc. to Ardea Biosciences, Inc. 3 Table of Contents In consideration for the assets purchased from Valeant and subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, Valeant has the right to receive development-based milestone payments and sales-based royalty payments from us. There is one set of milestones for RDEA806 and the next generation NNRTI program and a separate set of milestones for RDEA119 and the next generation MEK inhibitor program. In the event of the successful commercialization of a product incorporating RDEA806 or a compound from the next generation NNRTI program, resulting milestone payments could total up to $25.0 million. In the event of the successful commercialization of a product incorporating RDEA119 or a compound from the next generation MEK inhibitor program, resulting milestone payments could total up to $17.0 million. Milestones are paid only once for each program, regardless of how many compounds are developed or commercialized. The first milestone payments of $2.0 million and $1.0 million in the NNRTI program and the MEK inhibitor program, respectively, would be due after the first patient is dosed in the first Phase 2b study, and approximately 80% of the total milestone payments in each program would be due upon United States Food and Drug Administration acceptance and approval of a New Drug Application, or NDA. The royalty rates on all products are in the mid-single digits. We agreed to further develop these compounds with the objective of obtaining marketing approval in the United States, the United Kingdom, France, Spain, Italy and Germany. Valeant also has the right to exercise a one-time option to repurchase commercialization rights in territories outside the United States and Canada (the “Valeant Territories”) to the first NNRTI compound derived from the acquired intellectual property to complete a Phase 2b study in HIV. If Valeant exercises this option, which it can do following the completion of a Phase 2b HIV study, but prior to the initiation of a Phase 3 study, we would be responsible for completing Phase 3 studies and for registration of the product in the United States and the European Union. Valeant would pay us a $10.0 million option fee, up to $21.0 million in milestone payments based on regulatory approvals, and a mid-single-digit royalty on product sales in the Valeant Territories. Research and Development Expenses Our research and development expenses for the three years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were $44.9 million, $23.1 million and $0.1 million, respectively. Research and development expenses increased substantially in 2008 and 2007 primarily due to continued development and progression of our clinical and preclinical programs. Clinical Supplies and Manufacturing We have no in-house manufacturing capabilities. We rely on third-party contract manufacturers to produce our product candidates to support our development activities. Our clinical trial material, critical to our operations, is purchased from various companies and suppliers. Sales and Marketing We do not currently have sales or marketing capabilities. In order to commercially market any pharmaceutical product that we successfully advance through preclinical and clinical development and for which we obtain regulatory approval, we must either develop a sales and marketing infrastructure or collaborate with third parties with sales and marketing capabilities. Because of the early stage of our pharmaceutical development programs, we have not yet developed a sales and marketing strategy for any pharmaceutical products that we may develop. Customers and Distribution We do not currently sell or distribute pharmaceutical products. Competition The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are extremely competitive. Our potential competitors in the field are many in number and include major pharmaceutical and specialized biotechnology companies. Many of our potential competitors have significantly more financial, technical and other resources than we do, which may allow them to have a competitive advantage. In addition, they may have substantially more experience in effecting strategic combinations, in-licensing technology, developing drugs, obtaining regulatory approvals and 4 Table of Contents manufacturing and marketing products. We cannot give any assurances that we can effectively compete with these other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. Any products that we may develop or discover will compete in highly competitive markets. Our potential competitors in these markets may succeed in developing products that could render our products and those of our collaborators obsolete or non-competitive. In addition, many of our competitors have significantly greater experience than we do in the fields in which we compete. Intellectual Property Our success will depend in large part on our ability to: • obtain and maintain international and domestic patent and other legal protections for the proprietary technology, inventions and improvements we consider important to our business; • prosecute and defend our patents; • preserve our trade secrets; and • operate without infringing the patents and proprietary rights of third parties. We intend to continue to seek appropriate patent protection for the lead product candidates in our research and development programs and their uses by filing patent applications in the United States and other selected countries. We intend for these patent applications to cover, where possible, claims for composition of matter, medical uses, processes for preparation and formulations. We own a total of two issued United States patents, 16 pending United States non-provisional applications, seven pending United States provisional applications, eight pending international applications and 80 pending foreign patent applications. Although we believe that our rights under patent applications we own provide a competitive advantage, the patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. We may not be able to develop patentable products or processes, and may not be able to obtain patents from pending applications. Even if patent claims are allowed, the claims may not issue, or in the event of issuance, may not be sufficient to protect the technology owned by or licensed to us. Any patents or patent rights that we obtain may be circumvented, challenged or invalidated by our competitors. We also rely on trade secrets, proprietary know-how and continuing innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position, especially when we do not believe that patent protection is appropriate or can be obtained. We seek protection of these trade secrets, proprietary know-how and any continuing innovation, in part, through confidentiality and proprietary information agreements. However, these agreements may not provide meaningful protection for, or adequate remedies to protect, our technology in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of information. Furthermore, our trade secrets may otherwise become known to, or be independently developed by, our competitors. Government Regulation Pharmaceutical Regulation If and when we market any pharmaceutical products, they would be subject to extensive government regulation in the United States. Additionally, if we seek to market and distribute any such products abroad, they would also be subject to extensive foreign government regulation. In the United States, the Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, regulates pharmaceutical products. FDA regulations govern the testing, manufacturing, advertising, promotion, labeling, sale and distribution of pharmaceutical products, and generally require approval of new drugs through a rigorous process. We also may be subject to foreign regulatory requirements governing clinical trials and drug product sales if products are studied or marketed abroad. The approval process outside the United States varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and the time required may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. 5 Table of Contents Regulation in the United States The FDA testing and approval process requires substantial time, effort and money. We cannot assure you that any of our products will ever obtain approval. The FDA approval process for new drugs includes, without limitation: • preclinical studies; • submission of an Investigational New Drug application, or IND, for clinical trials; • adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials to establish safety and efficacy of the product; • review of a NDA; and • inspection of the facilities used in the manufacturing of the drug to assess compliance with the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, regulations. A NDA must include comprehensive and complete descriptions of the preclinical testing, clinical trials and the chemical, manufacturing and control requirements of a drug that enable the FDA to determine the drug’s safety and efficacy. A NDA must be submitted, filed and approved by the FDA before any product that we may successfully develop can be marketed commercially in the United States. Preclinical studies include laboratory evaluation of the product, as well as animal studies to assess the potential safety and effectiveness of the product. Most of these studies must be performed according to good laboratory practices. The results of the preclinical studies, together with manufacturing information and analytical data, are submitted to the FDA as part of an IND. Clinical trials may begin 30 days after an IND is received, unless the FDA raises concerns or questions about the conduct of the clinical trials. If concerns or questions are raised, an IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before clinical trials can proceed. We have filed and received approval for INDs for our lead clinical candidates, RDEA806, RDEA119 and RDEA594, and we may file additional INDs during 2009. We are required to file an IND before we can commence any clinical trials for our product candidates in the United States. We cannot assure you that submission of an IND for any of our preclinical product candidates will result in authorization to commence clinical trials. Nor can we assure you that any of our current or future clinical trials will result in approval to market our products. Clinical trials involve the administration of the product candidate that is the subject of the trial to volunteers or patients under the supervision of a qualified principal investigator. Each clinical trial must be reviewed and approved by an independent institutional review board at each institution at which the study will be conducted. The institutional review board will consider, among other things, ethical factors, safety of human subjects and the possible liability of the institution arising from the conduct of the proposed clinical trial. Also, clinical trials must be performed according to good clinical practices which are enumerated in FDA regulations and guidance documents. Clinical trials typically are conducted in sequential phases: Phases 1, 2, 3 and 4. The phases may overlap. The FDA may require that we suspend clinical trials at any time on various grounds, including if the FDA makes a finding that the subjects are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. In Phase 1 clinical trials, a drug is usually tested on a small number of healthy volunteers to determine safety, any adverse effects, proper dosage, absorption, metabolism, distribution, excretion and other drug effects. In Phase 2 clinical trials, a drug is usually tested on a limited number of subjects (generally up to several hundred) to preliminarily evaluate the efficacy of the drug for specific, targeted indications, determine dosage tolerance and optimal dosage, and identify possible adverse effects and safety risks. In Phase 3 clinical trials, a drug is usually tested on a larger number of subjects (up to several thousand), in an expanded patient population and at multiple clinical sites. In Phase 4 clinical trials or other post-approval commitments, additional studies and patient follow-up are conducted to gain experience from the treatment of patients in the intended therapeutic indication. Additional studies and follow-up are also conducted to document a clinical benefit where drugs are approved under accelerated approval regulations and based on surrogate endpoints. In clinical trials, surrogate endpoints are alternative measurements of the symptoms of a disease or condition that are substituted for measurements of observable 6 Table of Contents clinical symptoms. Failure to promptly conduct Phase 4 clinical trials and follow-up could result in expedited withdrawal of products approved under accelerated approval regulations. The facilities, procedures and operations for any of our contract manufacturers must be determined to be adequate by the FDA before product approval. Manufacturing facilities are subject to inspections by the FDA for compliance with cGMP, licensing specifications and other FDA regulations before and after a NDA has been approved. Foreign manufacturing facilities are also subject to periodic FDA inspections or inspections by foreign regulatory authorities. Among other things, the FDA may withhold approval of NDAs or other product applications if deficiencies are found at the facility. Vendors that may supply us with finished products or components used to manufacture, package and label products are also subject to similar regulations and periodic inspections. In addition, the FDA imposes a number of complex regulatory requirements on entities that advertise and promote pharmaceuticals, including, but not limited to, standards and regulations for direct-to-consumer advertising, off-label promotion, industry-sponsored scientific and educational activities, and promotional activities involving the Internet. Failure to comply with FDA and other governmental regulations can result in fines, unanticipated compliance expenditures, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production and/or distribution, suspension of the FDA’s review of NDAs, injunctions and criminal prosecution. Any of these actions could have a material adverse effect on us. Regulation Outside the United States If we market drugs in foreign countries, we also will be subject to foreign regulatory requirements governing human clinical trials and marketing approval for pharmaceutical products. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product approval, pricing and reimbursement vary widely from country to country. Whether or not FDA approval has been obtained, approval of a product by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries must be obtained before manufacturing or marketing the product in those countries. The approval process varies from country to country and the time required for such approvals may differ substantially from that required for FDA approval. There is no assurance that any future FDA approval of any of our clinical trials or drugs will result in similar foreign approvals or vice versa. Additional Regulation Third-Party Reimbursement In the United States, physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers that purchase pharmaceutical products generally rely on third-party payers, principally private health insurance plans, Medicare and, to a lesser extent, Medicaid, to reimburse all or part of the cost of the product and procedure for which the product is being used. Even if a product is approved for marketing by the FDA, there is no assurance that third-party payers will cover the cost of the product and related medical procedures. If they do not, end-users of the drug would not be eligible for any reimbursement of the cost, and our ability to market any such drug would be materially and adversely impacted. Reimbursement systems in international markets vary significantly by country and, within some countries, by region. Reimbursement approvals must be obtained on a country-by-country basis. In many foreign markets, including markets in which we hope to sell our products, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to government pricing control. In these markets, once marketing approval is received, pricing negotiations could take significant additional time. As in the United States, the lack of satisfactory reimbursement or inadequate government pricing of any of our products would limit their widespread use and lower potential product revenues. Fraud and Abuse Laws Federal and state anti-kickback and anti-fraud and abuse laws, as well as the federal Civil False Claims Act may apply to certain drug and device research and marketing practices. The Civil False Claims Act prohibits knowingly presenting or causing to be presented a false, fictitious or fraudulent claim for payment to the United States. Actions under the Civil False Claims Act may be brought by the Attorney General or by a private individual 7 Table of Contents acting as an informer or whistleblower in the name of the government. Violations of the Civil False Claims Act can result in significant monetary penalties. The federal government is using the Civil False Claims Act, and the threat of significant liability, in its investigations of healthcare providers, suppliers and drug and device manufacturers throughout the country for a wide variety of drug and device marketing and research practices, and has obtained multi-million dollar settlements. The federal government may continue to devote substantial resources toward investigating healthcare providers’, suppliers’ and drug and device manufacturers’ compliance with the Civil False Claims Act and other fraud and abuse laws. We may have to expend significant financial resources and management attention if we ever become the focus of such an investigation, even if we are not guilty of any wrong doings. HIPAA The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, requires the use of standard transactions, privacy and security standards and other administrative simplification provisions by covered entities, which include many healthcare providers, health plans and healthcare clearinghouses. HIPAA instructs the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services to promulgate regulations implementing these standards in the United States. Other Laws We are also subject to other federal, state and local laws of general applicability, such as laws regulating working conditions, and various federal, state and local environmental protection laws and regulations, including those governing the discharge of material into the environment. Employees As of March 6, 2009, we employed 81 regular full-time employees (including 28 people who have a Ph.D. and one person who has a Pharm.D.), 64 of whom are involved full-time in research, clinical and development activities. All members of our senior management team have had prior experience with pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies. We believe that we have been successful in attracting skilled and experienced personnel, but competition for personnel is intense and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain the individuals needed. None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreements and management considers relations with our employees to be good. Company Information We were incorporated in the State of Delaware in January 1994. Our corporate offices are located at 4939 Directors Place, San Diego, CA 92121. Our telephone number is (858) 652-6500. Our website address is www.ardeabio.com. We make available free of charge through our Internet website our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the following information about risks and uncertainties that may affect us or our business, together with the other information appearing elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K. If any of the following events described as risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects would likely be materially and adversely affected. In these circumstances, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment in our securities. An investment in our securities is speculative and involves a high degree of risk. You should not invest in our securities if you cannot bear the economic risk of your investment for an indefinite period of time and cannot afford to lose your entire investment. 8 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business Development of our products will take years; we may never attain product sales; and we expect to continue to incur net operating losses. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, substantial operating losses for the foreseeable future. We expect that most of our resources for the foreseeable future will be dedicated to research and development and preclinical and clinical testing of compounds. The amounts paid to advance the preclinical and clinical development of our product candidates, including RDEA806, RDEA594, RDEA427, RDEA119, RDEA436 and our other compounds, may continue to increase. Any compounds we advance through preclinical and clinical development will require extensive and costly development, preclinical testing and clinical trials prior to seeking regulatory approval for commercial sales. Our most advanced product candidates, RDEA806, RDEA594, RDEA427, RDEA119, RDEA436, and any other compounds we advance further into development, may never be approved for commercial sales. The time required to achieve product sales and profitability is lengthy and highly uncertain and we cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve or maintain product sales. We are not currently profitable and may never become profitable. To date, we have generated limited revenues and we do not anticipate generating significant revenues for at least several years, if ever. We may increase our operating expenses over at least the next several years as we plan to advance our product candidates, including RDEA806, RDEA594, RDEA427, RDEA119, RDEA436, into further preclinical testing and clinical trials, and may expand our research and development activities and acquire or license new technologies and product candidates. As a result, we expect to continue to incur significant and potentially increasing operating losses for the foreseeable future. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with our research and product development efforts, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when we will become profitable, if ever. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on an ongoing basis. Because the results of preclinical studies are not necessarily predictive of future results, we can provide no assurances that, even if our product candidates are successful in preclinical studies, such product candidates will have favorable results in clinical trials or receive regulatory approval. Positive results from preclinical studies should not be relied upon as evidence that clinical trials will succeed. Even if our product candidates achieve positive results in clinical studies, we will be required to demonstrate through clinical trials that these product candidates are safe and effective for use in a diverse population before we can seek regulatory approvals for their commercial sale. There is typically an extremely high rate of attrition from the failure of product candidates proceeding through clinical trials. If any product candidate fails to demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy in any clinical trial, then we would experience potentially significant delays in, or be required to abandon, development of that product candidate. If we delay or abandon our development efforts of any of our product candidates, then we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to become profitable, and our reputation in the industry and in the investment community would likely be significantly damaged, each of which would cause our stock price to decrease significantly. Delays in the commencement of clinical testing of our current and potential product candidates could result in increased costs to us and delay our ability to generate revenues. Our product candidates will require preclinical testing and extensive clinical trials prior to submission of any regulatory application for commercial sales. Delays in the commencement of clinical testing of our product candidates could significantly increase our product development costs and delay product commercialization. In addition, many of the factors that may cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to denial of regulatory approval of a product candidate. The commencement of clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including: • delays in demonstrating sufficient safety and efficacy to obtain regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial; 9 Table of Contents • delays in reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations and clinical trial sites; • delays in manufacturing quantities of a product candidate sufficient for clinical trials; • delays in obtaining approval of a IND from the FDA or similar foreign approval; • delays in obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site; and • insufficient financial resources. In addition, the commencement of clinical trials may be delayed due to insufficient patient enrollment, which is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease, and the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial. Delays in the completion of, or the termination of, clinical testing of our current and potential product candidates could result in increased costs to us and delay or prevent us from generating revenues. Once a clinical trial for any current or potential product candidate has begun, it may be delayed, suspended or terminated by us or the FDA, or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including: • ongoing discussions with the FDA or other regulatory authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials; • failure to conduct clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements; • lower than anticipated retention rate of patients in clinical trials; • the imposition of a clinical hold; • lack of adequate funding to continue clinical trials; • negative results of clinical trials; • insufficient supply or deficient quality of product candidates or other materials necessary for the conduct of our clinical trials; or • serious adverse events or other undesirable drug-related side effects experienced by clinical trial participants. Many of these factors that may lead to a delay, suspension or termination of clinical testing of a current or potential product candidate may also ultimately lead to denial of regulatory approval of a current or potential product candidate. If we experience delays in the completion of, or termination of, clinical testing, our financial results and the commercial prospects for our product candidates will be harmed, and our ability to generate revenues from those products will be delayed. If our internal discovery and development efforts are unsuccessful, we will be required to obtain rights to new products or product candidates from third parties, which we may not be able to do. Our long-term ability to earn product revenue depends on our ability to successfully advance our product candidates through clinical development and regulatory approval and to identify and obtain new products or product candidates through internal development or licenses from third parties. If the development programs we acquired from Valeant and our internal development programs are not successful, we will need to obtain rights to new products or product candidates from third parties. We may be unable to obtain suitable product candidates or products from third parties for a number of reasons, including: • we may be unable to purchase or license products or product candidates on terms that would allow us to make a sufficient financial return from resulting products; 10 Table of Contents • competitors may be unwilling to assign or license products or product candidate rights to us (in particular, if we are not able to successfully advance the further development of the product candidates we acquired from Valeant); or • we may be unable to identify suitable products or product candidates within, or complementary to, our areas of interest relating to the treatment of gout, HIV, cancer and inflammatory diseases. If we are unable to obtain rights to new products or product candidates from third parties, our ability to generate product revenues and achieve profitability may suffer. Even if we successfully initiate and complete clinical trials for any product candidate, there are no assurances that we will be able to submit or obtain regulatory approval of a new drug application. There can be no assurance that if our clinical trials of any potential product candidate are successfully initiated and completed, we will be able to submit an NDA to the FDA in the U.S. or similar application to other regulatory authorities elsewhere in the world, or that any applications we submit will be approved by these regulatory authorities in a timely manner, if at all. If we are unable to submit an NDA or similar application with respect to any future product candidate, or if any NDA or similar application we submit is not approved by the FDA or other regulatory authorities elsewhere in the world, we will be unable to commercialize that product. These authorities can and do reject new drug application and require additional clinical trials, even when product candidates have performed well or have achieved favorable results in clinical trials. If we fail to commercialize any future product candidate in clinical trials, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenues to attain profitability and our reputation in the industry and in the investment community would likely be damaged, each of which would cause our stock price to decrease. If we successfully develop products, but those products do not achieve and maintain market acceptance, our business will not be profitable. Even if any of our product candidates are approved for commercial sale by the FDA or other regulatory authorities, our profitability and growth will depend on the degree of market acceptance of any approved product candidate by physicians, healthcare professionals and third-party payors, which will in turn depend on a number of factors, including: • our ability to provide acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy of our products; • relative convenience and ease of administration of products; • the prevalence and severity of any adverse side effects from the products; • the availability of alternative treatments; • pricing and cost effectiveness of products; and • our ability to obtain sufficient third-party insurance coverage or reimbursement. In addition, even if any of our potential products achieve market acceptance, we may not be able to maintain that market acceptance over time if: • new products or technologies are introduced that are more favorably received than our potential future products, are more cost effective or render our potential future products obsolete; or • complications arise with respect to use of our potential future products. We will need substantial additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed, or at all, which would force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our research and development programs or commercialization efforts. Based on current projections, excluding any funds that we may receive from future business development activities, we believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short- term investments and interest earned thereon, will be adequate to fund our anticipated levels of operations into the second quarter of 2010. However, our 11 Table of Contents business and operations may change in a manner that would consume available resources at a greater rate than anticipated. In particular, because most of our resources for the foreseeable future will be used to advance our product candidates, we may not be able to accurately anticipate our future research and development funding needs. We will need to raise substantial additional capital in the future to, among other things: • fund our research, discovery and development programs; • advance our product candidates into and through clinical trials and the regulatory review and approval process; • establish and maintain manufacturing, sales and marketing operations; • commercialize our product candidates, if any, that receive regulatory approval; and • acquire rights to products or product candidates, technologies or businesses. Our future funding requirements will depend on, and could increase significantly as a result of, many factors, including: • the rate of progress and cost of our research and development activities; • the scope, prioritization and number of preclinical studies and clinical trials we pursue; • the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights; • the costs and timing of regulatory approval; • the costs of establishing or contracting for manufacturing, sales and marketing capabilities; • the effects of competing technological and market developments; • the terms and timing of any collaborative, licensing and other arrangements that we may establish; and • the extent to which we acquire or license new technologies, products or product candidates. We do not anticipate that we will generate significant continuing revenues for at least several years, if ever. Until we can generate significant continuing revenues, we expect to satisfy our future cash needs through public or private equity offerings, debt financings and corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements, as well as through interest income earned on cash balances. We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Our ability to obtain new financing may be constrained by the current unprecedented volatile economic conditions affecting financial markets. If funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our research or development programs or our commercialization efforts. We may need to decrease the size of our organization, and we may experience difficulties in managing those organizational changes. We may need to decrease the number of our employees in response to the recent global financial crisis or other adverse events. If our future staffing is inadequate because of additional unanticipated attrition or because we failed to retain the staffing level required to accomplish our business objectives we may be delayed or unable to continue the development or commercialization of our product candidates, which could impede our ability to generate revenues and achieve profitability. Additionally, employees whose positions are eliminated in connection with any reduction may seek future employment with our competitors. Although all employees are required to sign a confidentiality agreement with us at the time of hire we cannot assure you that the confidential nature of our proprietary information will be maintained in the course of such future employment. Any drop in employee morale or other potential operational disruptions resulting from our restructuring efforts could divert the attention of our management away from our operations. Our restructuring efforts may harm our reputation and actually increase our expenses in the short-term. 12 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that any restructuring efforts will be successful, or that we will be able to realize the cost savings and other anticipated benefits from restructuring activities. Raising additional funds by issuing securities or through collaboration and licensing arrangements may cause dilution to existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish proprietary rights. We may raise additional funds through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or corporate collaborations and licensing arrangements. We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. To the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our stockholders’ ownership will be diluted. Any debt financing we enter into may involve covenants that restrict our operations. These restrictive covenants may include, among other things, limitations on borrowing, specific restrictions on the use of our assets, as well as prohibitions on our ability to create liens, pay dividends, redeem capital stock or make investments. In addition, if we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish potentially valuable rights to our potential products or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. For example, we might be required to relinquish all or a portion of our sales and marketing rights with respect to potential products or license intellectual property that enables licensees to develop competing products in order to complete any such transaction. The investment of our cash balance and investments in marketable securities are subject to risks which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. Our short-term investments consist of securities of the United States government, its federal agencies, entities controlled by the federal government and municipal bonds. These investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which may further be exacerbated by United States sub-prime mortgage defaults and other factors, which have affected various sectors of the financial markets and caused credit and liquidity issues. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we determined that any declines in the fair value of our investments were temporary. There may be further declines in the value of these investments, which we may determine to be other-than-temporary. These market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. We do not have internal manufacturing capabilities, and if we fail to develop and maintain internal capabilities or supply relationships with collaborators or other outside manufacturers, we may be unable to develop or commercialize any products. Our ability to develop and commercialize any products we may develop will depend in part on our ability to manufacture, or arrange for collaborators or other parties to manufacture, our products at a competitive cost, in accordance with regulatory requirements, and in sufficient quantities for clinical testing and eventual commercialization. We currently do not have any significant manufacturing arrangements or agreements, as our current product candidates will not require commercial-scale manufacturing for at least several years, if ever. Our inability to enter into or maintain manufacturing agreements with collaborators or capable contract manufacturers on acceptable terms could delay or prevent the development and commercialization of our products, which would adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and would increase our expenses. If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to sell and market any products we may develop, we may be unable to generate product revenue. We do not currently have a sales organization for the sales, marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical products. In order to commercialize any products, we must build our sales, marketing, distribution, managerial and other non-technical capabilities or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services. We have not yet determined whether we will attempt to establish internal sales and marketing capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to sell and market any products we may develop. The establishment and development of our own sales force to market any products we may develop will be expensive and time consuming and could delay any product launch, and we cannot be certain that we would be able to successfully develop this capacity. If we are unable to establish our sales and marketing capability or any other non-technical capabilities necessary to 13 Table of Contents commercialize any product we may develop, we will need to contract with third parties to market and sell any products we may develop. If we are unable to establish adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, whether independently or with third parties, we may not be able to generate product revenue and may not become profitable. If we are unable to attract and retain key management and scientific staff, we may be unable to successfully develop or commercialize our product candidates. We are a small company, and our success depends on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management and scientific personnel. In particular, our research and drug discovery and development programs depend on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled chemists, biologists and preclinical personnel, especially in the fields of HIV, gout, cancer and inflammatory diseases. If we are unable to hire or retain these employees, we may not be able to advance our research and development programs at the pace we anticipate. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified management and scientific personnel in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel among biotechnology and pharmaceutical businesses, particularly in the San Diego, California area. If we are not able to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will impede significantly the achievement of our research and development objectives. In addition, all of our employees are “at will” employees, which means that any employee may quit at any time and we may terminate any employee at any time. Currently, we do not have employment agreements with any employees or members of senior management that provide us any guarantee of their continued employment. If we lose members of our senior management team, we may not be able to find suitable replacements and our business may be harmed as a result. Our quarterly results and stock price may fluctuate significantly. We expect our results of operations and future stock price to continue to be subject to significant quarterly fluctuations. The level of our revenues, if any, our results of operations and our stock price at any given time will be based primarily on the following factors: • whether or not we achieve specified research or commercialization milestones under any agreement that we enter into with collaborators and the timely payment by potential commercial collaborators of any amounts payable to us or by us to Valeant or any other party, including the milestone payments that we may make to Valeant; • the addition or termination of research or development programs or funding support; • the status of development of our product candidates, including results of preclinical studies and any future clinical trials; • variations in the level of expenses related to our product candidates or potential product candidates during any given period; • our execution of collaborative, licensing or other arrangements, and the timing and accounting treatment of payments we make or receive under these arrangements; • our recommendation of additional compounds for preclinical development; and • fluctuations in the stock prices of other companies in the biotechnology and pharmaceuticals industries and in the financial markets generally. These factors, some of which are not within our control, may cause the price of our stock to fluctuate substantially. In particular, if our quarterly operating or financial results fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price could drop suddenly and significantly. We believe that quarterly comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. 14 Table of Contents If we engage in any acquisition, we will incur a variety of costs, and we may never realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. In 2006, we acquired pharmaceutical research and development programs, including our most advanced product candidates, from Valeant, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to successfully develop the acquired product candidates. We may attempt to acquire businesses, technologies, services or other products or in-license technologies that we believe are a strategic fit with our existing development programs, at the appropriate time and as resources permit. In any acquisition, the process of integrating the acquired business, personnel, technology, service or product may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and may divert significant management attention away from our ongoing business operations. These operational and financial risks include: • assumption and exposure to unknown liabilities of the acquired business; • disruption of our business and diversion of our management’s time and attention to acquiring and developing acquired products or technologies; • incurrence of substantial debt or dilutive issuances of securities to pay for acquisitions; • higher than expected acquisition and integration costs; • increased amortization expenses; • negative effect on our earnings (or loss) per share; • difficulty and cost in combining and integrating the operations and personnel of any acquired businesses with our operations and personnel; • impairment of relationships with key suppliers, contractors or customers of any acquired businesses due to changes in management and ownership; and • inability to retain key employees of any acquired businesses. We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of any completed acquisition or devote resources to potential acquisitions that are never completed. If we fail to successfully identify strategic opportunities, complete strategic transactions or integrate acquired businesses, technologies, services or products, then we may not be able to successfully expand our product candidate portfolio to provide adequate revenue to attain and maintain profitability. Earthquake damage to our facilities could delay our research and development efforts and adversely affect our business. Our research and development facility in San Diego, California, is located in a seismic zone, and there is the possibility of an earthquake, which could be disruptive to our operations and result in delays in our research and development efforts. In the event of an earthquake, if our facilities or the equipment in our facilities are significantly damaged or destroyed, we may not be able to rebuild or relocate our facility or replace any damaged equipment in a timely manner and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Valeant’s exercise of its option to repurchase commercialization rights in territories outside the United States and Canada (the “Valeant Territories”) could limit the market for our first NNRTI product and adversely affect our business. Under the asset purchase agreement that we entered into with Valeant on December 21, 2006, Valeant retains a one-time option to repurchase commercialization rights in the Valeant Territories for our first NNRTI product derived from the acquired intellectual property to advance to a Phase 2b HIV clinical trial. If Valeant exercises this option, which it can do following the completion of a Phase 2b clinical trial, but prior to the initiation of a Phase 3 clinical trial, Valeant would pay us a $10.0 million option fee, up to $21.0 million in milestone payments based on regulatory approvals, and a mid-single-digit royalty on product sales in the Valeant Territories. However, Valeant would then own all commercialization rights in the Valeant Territories, which may adversely impact the amount of aggregate revenue we may be able to generate from sales of our NNRTI product and may negatively impact our 15 Table of Contents potential for long-term growth. Also, if Valeant exercises its option to repurchase commercialization rights in the Valeant Territories and experiences difficulties in commercializing our NNRTI product in the Valeant Territories, then our commercialization efforts in the United States and Canada may be adversely impacted. Finally, Valeant’s option may adversely impact any efforts we may undertake to license our NNRTI product to a potential commercial partner who requires worldwide rights to the product. Failure to comply with our minimum commitments under the asset purchase agreement with Valeant could expose us to potential liability or otherwise adversely affect our business. We agreed to use reasonable efforts to develop the product candidates in the pharmaceutical research and development programs we acquired from Valeant, with the objective of obtaining marketing approval for RDEA806, RDEA119 and the lead product candidates from the next generation NNRTI and MEK inhibitor programs in the United States, the United Kingdom, France, Spain, Italy and Germany. If we fail to make sufficient effort to develop the product candidates, then we may be subject to a potential lawsuit or lawsuits from Valeant under the asset purchase agreement. If such a lawsuit was successful, we may be subject to financial losses, our reputation within the pharmaceutical research and development community may be negatively impacted and our business may suffer. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires on-going management assessments, beginning with the year ended December 31, 2007, of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and, beginning with the year ending December 31, 2008, will further require a report by our independent registered public accounting firm that provides their assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls. Testing and maintaining internal controls involves significant costs and can divert our management’s attention from other matters that are important to our business. We and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could harm our operating results and could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the price of our stock. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our internal controls over financial reporting will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations on all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud involving a company have been, or will be, detected. The design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and we cannot assure you that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. Because of the inherent limitations in cost-effective control systems, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. We cannot assure you that we or our independent registered public accounting firm will not identify a material weakness in our internal controls in the future. A material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting would require management and our independent registered public accounting firm to evaluate our internal controls as ineffective. If our internal controls over financial reporting are not considered effective, we may experience a loss of public confidence, which could have an adverse effect on our business and on the price of our stock. 16 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Industry Because our product candidates and development and collaboration efforts depend on our intellectual property rights, adverse events affecting our intellectual property rights will harm our ability to commercialize products. Our commercial success depends on obtaining and maintaining patent protection and trade secret protection of our product candidates and their uses, as well as successfully defending these patents against challenges. We will only be able to protect our product candidates and their uses from unauthorized use by other parties to the extent that valid and enforceable patents or effectively protected trade secrets cover them. Due to evolving legal standards relating to the patentability, validity and enforceability of patents covering pharmaceutical inventions and the scope of claims made under these patents, our ability to obtain and enforce patents is uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. Accordingly, rights under any issued patents may not provide us with sufficient protection for our product candidates or provide sufficient protection to afford us a commercial advantage against competitive products or processes. In addition, we cannot guarantee that any patents will issue from any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us. Even with respect to patents that have issued or will issue, we cannot guarantee that the claims of these patents are, or will be valid, enforceable or will provide us with any significant protection against competitive products or otherwise be commercially valuable to us. For example: • we might not have been the first to make, conceive or reduce to practice the inventions covered by any or all of our pending patent applications; • we might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; • it is possible that none of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents; • our issued or acquired patents may not provide a basis for commercially viable products, may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be challenged by other parties; • our issued patents may not be valid or enforceable; or • the patents of others may have an adverse effect on our business. Patent applications in the United States are maintained in confidence for at least 18 months after their filing. Consequently, we cannot be certain that the patent applications we are pursuing will lead to the issuance of any patent or be free from infringement or other claims from other parties. In the event that another party has also filed a United States patent application relating to our product candidates or a similar invention, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent Office to determine priority of invention in the United States. The costs of these proceedings could be substantial and it is possible that our efforts would be unsuccessful, resulting in a material adverse effect on our United States patent position. Furthermore, we may not have identified all United States and foreign patents or published applications that affect our business either by blocking our ability to commercialize our product candidates or by covering similar technologies that affect our market. In addition, some countries, including many in Europe, do not grant patent claims directed to methods of treating humans, and in these countries patent protection may not be available at all to protect our product candidates. Even if patents issue, we cannot guarantee that the claims of those patents will be valid and enforceable or provide us with any significant protection against competitive products, or otherwise be commercially valuable to us. Other companies may obtain patents and/or regulatory approvals to use the same drugs to treat diseases, other than gout, HIV, cancer and inflammatory diseases. As a result, we may not be able to enforce our patents effectively because we may not be able to prevent healthcare providers from prescribing, administering or using another company’s product that contains the same active substance as our products when treating patients with gout, HIV, cancer or inflammatory diseases. 17 Table of Contents Our business depends upon not infringing the rights of others. If we are sued for infringing intellectual property rights of others, it will be costly and time consuming, and an unfavorable outcome in that litigation would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our commercial success depends upon our ability to develop, manufacture, market and sell our product candidates without infringing the proprietary rights of other parties. We may be exposed to future litigation by other parties based on claims that our product candidates or activities infringe the intellectual property rights of others. There are numerous United States and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications owned by others in gout, HIV, cancer, inflammatory diseases and the other fields in which we may develop products. We cannot assure you that parties holding any of these patents or patent applications will not assert infringement claims against us for damages or seek to enjoin our activities. We also cannot assure you that, in the event of litigation, we will be able to successfully assert any belief we may have as to non-infringement, invalidity or immateriality, or that any infringement claims will be resolved in our favor. There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industries generally. Any litigation or claims against us, with or without merit, may cause us to incur substantial costs, could place a significant strain on our financial resources, divert the attention of management from our core business and harm our reputation. In addition, intellectual property litigation or claims could result in substantial damages and force us to do one or more of the following if a court decides that we infringe on another party’s patent or other intellectual property rights: • cease selling, incorporating or using any of our product candidates that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • obtain a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right, which license may be costly or may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; or • redesign our processes so that they do not infringe, which could be costly and time-consuming and may not be possible. If we find during clinical evaluation that our product candidates for the treatment of gout, HIV, cancer or inflammatory diseases should be used in combination with a product covered by a patent held by another company or institution, and that a labeling instruction is required in product packaging recommending that combination, we could be accused of, or held liable for, infringement of the other party’s patents covering the product recommended for co-administration with our product. In that case, we may be required to obtain a license from the other company or institution to use the required or desired package labeling, which may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all. If we fail to obtain any required licenses or make any necessary changes to our technologies, we may be unable to develop or commercialize some or all of our product candidates. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information and may not adequately protect our intellectual property. We also rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. In order to protect our proprietary technology and processes, we also rely in part on confidentiality and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, consultants and other advisors. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information or result in the effective assignment to us of intellectual property, and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information or other breaches of the agreements. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such case we could not assert any trade secret rights against such party. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is difficult, expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States may be less willing to protect trade secrets. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to seek to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. 18 Table of Contents Many of our competitors have significantly more resources and experience, which may harm our commercial opportunity. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are subject to intense competition and rapid and significant technological change. We have many potential competitors, including major drug and chemical companies, specialized biotechnology firms, academic institutions, government agencies and private and public research institutions. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources, experience and expertise in: • research and development; • preclinical testing; • clinical trials; • regulatory approvals; • manufacturing; and • sales and marketing of approved products. Smaller or early stage companies and research institutions may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established pharmaceutical companies. We will also face competition from these parties in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, and acquiring and in-licensing technologies and products complementary to our programs or potentially advantageous to our business. If any of our competitors succeed in obtaining approval from the FDA or other regulatory authorities for their products sooner than we do or for products that are more effective or less costly than ours, our commercial opportunity could be significantly reduced. If our competitors develop treatments for gout, HIV, cancer or inflammatory diseases that are approved faster, marketed better or demonstrated to be safer or more effective than any products that we may develop, our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated. We believe that a significant number of drugs are currently under development and may become available in the future for the treatment of gout, HIV, cancer and inflammatory diseases. Potential competitors may develop treatments for gout, HIV, cancer or inflammatory diseases or other technologies and products that are safer, more effective or less costly than our product candidates or that would make our technology and product candidates obsolete or non-competitive. Some of these products may use therapeutic approaches that compete directly with our most advanced product candidates. If we cannot establish pricing of our product candidates acceptable to the United States or foreign governments, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors, or arrange for favorable reimbursement policies, any product sales will be severely hindered. The continuing efforts of the United States and foreign governments, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of health care costs to contain or reduce costs of health care may adversely affect our ability to generate adequate revenues and gross margins to make the products we develop commercially viable. Our ability to commercialize any product candidates successfully will depend in part on the extent to which governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations establish appropriate reimbursement levels for the cost of any products and related treatments. In certain foreign markets, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to government control. In the United States, given recent federal and state government initiatives directed at lowering the total cost of health care, the United States Congress and state legislatures will likely continue to focus on health care reform, the cost of prescription pharmaceuticals and on the reform of the Medicare and Medicaid systems. The trend toward managed health care in the United States, which could significantly influence the purchase of health care services and products, as well as legislative proposals to reform health care, control pharmaceutical prices or reduce government insurance programs, may result in lower prices for our product candidates. While we cannot predict whether any 19 Table of Contents legislative or regulatory proposals affecting our business will be adopted, the announcement or adoption of these proposals could have a material and adverse effect on our potential revenues and gross margins. Product liability claims may damage our reputation and, if insurance proves inadequate, the product liability claims may harm our results of operations. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure when we test our product candidates in human clinical trials, and we will face an even greater risk if we sell our product candidates commercially. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we will incur substantial liabilities, our reputation may be harmed and we may be unable to commercialize our product candidates. We have product liability insurance that covers the conduct of our clinical trials. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if marketing approval is obtained for any of our product candidates. However, insurance coverage is increasingly expensive. We may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost and we may not be able to obtain insurance coverage that will be adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise. Any claims relating to our improper handling, storage or disposal of biological, hazardous and radioactive materials could be time-consuming and costly. Our research and development involves the controlled use of hazardous materials, including chemicals that cause cancer, volatile solvents, radioactive materials and biological materials that have the potential to transmit disease. Our operations also produce hazardous waste products. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and waste products. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations or with the conditions attached to our operating licenses, the licenses could be revoked, and we could be subjected to criminal sanctions and substantial financial liability or be required to suspend or modify our operations. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with legally prescribed standards, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for damages or penalized with fines in an amount exceeding our resources. In addition, we may have to incur significant costs to comply with future environmental laws and regulations. We do not currently have a pollution and remediation insurance policy. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures. Despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. Any system failure, accident or security breach that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption of our research and drug discovery and development programs. To the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we may incur liability as a result, our research and drug discovery and development programs may be adversely affected and the further development of our product candidates may be delayed. In addition, we may incur additional costs to remedy the damages caused by these disruptions or security breaches. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Directors, executive officers, principal stockholders and affiliated entities beneficially own or control a significant majority of our outstanding voting common stock and together control our activities. Our directors, executive officers, principal stockholders and affiliated entities currently beneficially own or control a significant majority of our outstanding securities. These stockholders, if they determine to vote in the same manner, would control the outcome of any matter requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions or terms of any liquidation. Future sales of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline. Our principal stockholders and affiliated entities hold a substantial number of shares of our common stock that they are able to sell in the public market. In addition, they currently own outstanding warrants exercisable as of 20 Table of Contents June 17, 2009 for additional shares of our common stock. The exercise of these warrants or the sale by our current stockholders of a substantial number of shares, or the expectation that such exercises or sales may occur, could significantly reduce the market price of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law may make it more difficult to acquire us. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions: • allow the authorized number of directors to be changed only by resolution of our Board of Directors; • require that stockholder actions must be effected at a duly called stockholder meeting and prohibit stockholder action by written consent; • establish advance notice requirements for nominations to our Board of Directors or for proposals that can be acted on at stockholder meetings; • authorize our Board of Directors to issue blank check preferred stock to increase the number of outstanding shares; and • limit who may call stockholder meetings. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit large stockholders from consummating a merger with, or acquisition of us. These provisions may prevent a merger or acquisition that would be attractive to stockholders and could limit the price that investors would be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and we do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. We have paid no cash dividends on any of our common stock to date, and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. In addition, the terms of any future debt or credit facility may preclude us from paying any dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of potential gain for the foreseeable future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 