Item 1A. Risk Factors (concluded) Washington Gas’ facilities and operations may be impaired by cyber-attacks or acts of terrorism. Washington Gas’ distribution, storage facilities and IT infrastructure may be targeted by terrorist activities. Resulting damage could cause disruption of the ability to meet customer requirements. A security breach of Washington Gas’ information systems could impact the reliability of the distribution system or result in the theft of sensitive customer or employee information. Terrorist attacks may also disrupt capital markets and Washington Gas’ ability to raise capital. A terrorist attack on Washington Gas’ facilities or those of its natural gas suppliers or customers could result in a significant decrease in revenues or a significant increase in response costs. Washington Gas may face certain regulatory and financial risks related to climate change legislation. Future proposals to limit greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, measured in carbon dioxide equivalent units, could adversely affect our operating and service costs and demand for our product. In the past, the United States Congress has considered legislative proposals to limit GHG emissions. Should future proposals become law, the adoption could increase utility costs and prices charged to utility customers. Washington Gas may face certain regulatory and financial risks related to pipeline safety legislation. A number of proposals to implement increased oversight over pipeline operations and increased investment in facilities to inspect pipeline facilities, upgrade pipeline facilities, or control the impact of a breach of such facilities are pending at the federal level. Additional operating expenses and capital expenditures may be necessary to remain in compliance with the increased federal oversight resulting from such proposals. While we cannot predict with certainty the extent of these expenses and expenditures or when they will become effective, the adoption of such proposals could result in significant additional costs to Washington Gas’ business. Washington Gas may be unable to recover from customers through the regulatory process all or some of these costs and its authorized rate of return on these costs. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 19 Table of Contents WGL Holdings, Inc. Washington Gas Light Company Part I Item 2. Properties 