Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risks and uncertainties prior to making an investment in our common stock. The following risks and uncertainties may also cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in or predicted by our forward-looking statements. We make estimates in determining our worldwide income tax provision. We make significant estimates in determining our worldwide income tax provision. These estimates are subject to many transactions, calculations and proceedings where the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Although we believe that our estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of tax matters and proceedings could be different than the estimates reflected in the income tax provision and accruals. Such differences could have a material impact on income tax expense and net income in the period in which such determination is made. In the first quarter of fiscal 2005, one of our Australian subsidiaries became subject to an audit by the Australian Tax Office (“ATO”). The amount of liabilities assessed through June 30, 2007 by the ATO, including tax penalties and interest, is approximately $6.6 million (A$7.8 million). These liabilities represent the Company’s maximum potential exposure and do not include the benefits of the related tax effects of any such payments or tax benefits that may be available in other tax years, both of which may serve to mitigate our total expense that would be recorded in our results of operations. Payments of $3.3 million (A$3.9 million) have been made to date with respect to these assessed amounts. These payments have been recorded as current assets in our balance sheet as we believe that these matters will be resolved in a period of not more than twelve months. We believe that the positions on our tax returns have merit and will ultimately be sustained. Accordingly, we have not recorded any liabilities related to these matters. See Provision for Income Taxes in Management’s Discussion and Analysis for additional information. We may continue to make cash payments with respect to these matters during fiscal 2008. In the event that such audit is resolved in a manner unfavorable to Moldflow or in the event that we are required to record a liability related to these matters in our consolidated balance sheet or make further cash payments, there would likely be a material adverse impact on our results of operations. In addition, our effective tax rate for fiscal 2008 may be materially and adversely impacted in the event that we are required to record a liability with respect to these matters, which would have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. 6 Table of Contents Any future mergers, acquisitions and strategic relationships may result in lost revenue caused by business disruptions and missed opportunities caused by the distraction of our management. We may engage in acquisitions and strategic relationships in the future. If we merge with or acquire another company, we may only receive the anticipated benefits if we successfully integrate the acquired business into our existing business in a timely and non-disruptive manner. This will require us to devote a significant amount of time, management and financial resources. Even with this investment of management and financial resources, the acquisition of another business or strategic relationship may not produce the revenues, earnings or business synergies that we anticipated. If we fail to integrate the acquired business effectively or if key employees of that business leave, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition would be jeopardized. The time, capital, management and other resources spent on an acquisition that fails to meet our expectations could cause our business and financial condition to be materially and adversely affected. In addition, acquisitions can involve charges and amortization of significant amounts of acquired identifiable intangible assets that could adversely affect our results of operations. A general economic slowdown, particularly in our end markets, may adversely impact our results. The demand for our products is largely driven by the demand for the products in our primary end markets. Many of these end markets, particularly the automotive, telecommunications and electronics industries, experienced severe economic declines which significantly and adversely affected our business in past years. While general economic trends have improved in some geographic markets, a general economic slowdown could materially and adversely affect us by decreasing our revenue as compared to prior years, or by lowering our revenue growth. Our quarterly operating results are subject to significant fluctuations and, as a result, period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. We have experienced significant historical fluctuations in our results of operations on a quarterly basis. We expect to continue to experience significant fluctuations in our future quarterly results of operations due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: • seasonal slowdowns, in particular, in our first and, to a lesser extent, our third fiscal quarter, in many of the markets in which we sell our products, • the timing and magnitude of capital expenditures, including costs relating to the expansion of our operations and infrastructure, and planned program spending required for major marketing initiatives or tradeshows, • introductions of new services or enhancements by us and our competitors and corresponding changes in pricing policies, • our increased use of third parties such as distributors, OEM partners and resellers which may lessen the control we have over revenue and earnings during any particular period, • the timing and magnitude of our tax expense, resulting from the globally distributed nature of our selling and research and development operations, and certain on-going tax audits or investigations by various local tax authorities that may lead to the loss of certain planned-for tax benefits, or increased taxable income in certain jurisdictions that may not be offset by losses in other tax jurisdictions, • fluctuations in our tax rate from quarter to quarter due to the impact of discrete events, including the settlement of claims, the management of audits and other inquiries, the acquisition of other companies or other events, • the impact of expensing share-based compensation, • currency and exchange rate fluctuations, • timing and integration of acquisitions, 7 Table of Contents • continuing costs of compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and • restructuring charges taken during any fiscal year. In addition, like many software companies, we usually record a larger percentage of our quarterly revenue in the third month of the fiscal quarter. Accordingly, our quarterly results are often difficult to predict prior to the conclusion of the quarter. If we experience delays in introducing new products or if our existing or new products do not achieve market acceptance, we may lose revenue. Our industry is characterized by: • rapid technological advances, • evolving industry standards, • changes in end-user requirements, • intense competition, • technically complex products, • frequent new product introductions, and • evolving offerings by product manufacturers. We believe our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate or adapt to these factors and to offer, on a timely basis, products that meet customer demands. For example, the introduction of new products and services embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards can render our existing products obsolete. The development of new or enhanced products is a complex and uncertain process, requiring the anticipation of technological and market trends. We may experience design, manufacturing, marketing and other difficulties that could delay or prevent our release of new products and enhancements, and result in unexpected expenses. Our growth and profitability will depend upon our ability to expand the use and market penetration of our existing product lines as well as new products we introduce. Market acceptance of our products will depend, in part, on our ability to demonstrate the cost- effectiveness, ease of use and technological advantages of our products over competing products. If we determine that any of our goodwill is impaired, we would be required to take a charge to earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If we determine that any of our goodwill is impaired, we would be required to reduce the value of that asset or to write it off completely by taking a related charge to earnings. If we are required to write down or write off all or a portion of our goodwill, or if financial analysts or investors believe we may need to take such action in the future, our stock price and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. As of June 30, 2007, the carrying value of the goodwill of the Company was $6.5 million. Our net income and earnings per share have been and will continue to be significantly reduced as a result of the requirement that we record compensation expense for shares issued under our stock plans. We use stock options and restricted stock as a key component of our employee compensation packages. We believe that stock options and restricted stock provide an incentive to our employees to maximize long-term shareholder value and can encourage valued employees to remain with the Company. Our adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 123(R), “Shared-Based Payment,” requires us to account for share-based compensation granted under our stock plans using a fair value-based model, such as Black-Scholes option-pricing model, on the grant date and to record the value of those grants as share-based compensation expense. As a result, our net income and earnings per share have been and will continue to be significantly reduced. Our results may reflect a loss in future periods. We currently calculate share-based compensation expense using the Black- 8 Table of Contents Scholes option-pricing model, which requires the input of highly subjective assumptions and does not necessarily provide a reliable measure of the fair value of our stock options. Assumptions used under the Black-Scholes option-pricing model that are highly subjective include the expected stock price volatility and expected life of an option. If we become subject to intellectual property infringement claims, we could incur significant expenses and we could be prevented from offering specific products or services. Our products include proprietary intellectual property. We may become subject to claims that we infringe on the proprietary rights of others. In the United States and elsewhere, a significant number of software and business method patents have been issued over the past decade and the holders of these patents have been actively seeking out potential infringers. If any element of our products or services violates third-party proprietary rights, we might not be able to obtain licenses on commercially reasonable terms to continue offering our products or services without substantial re-engineering and any effort to undertake such re-engineering might not be successful. In addition, even if the claim is invalid, any claim of infringement could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim and could distract our management from our business. Any judgment against us could require us to pay substantial damages and could also include an injunction or other court order that could prevent us from offering our products and services. We may lose sales if we are unable to protect important intellectual property. Our ability to compete effectively against other companies in our industry will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary rights in our technology. We may be unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology. While we have attempted to safeguard and maintain our proprietary rights, we do not know whether we have been or will be completely successful in doing so. We face the following risks in protecting our intellectual property: • we cannot be certain that our pending United States and foreign patent applications will result in issued patents or that the claims allowed are or will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology, • third parties may design around our patented technologies or seek to challenge or invalidate our patented technologies, • patents of others may have an adverse effect on our ability to do business, • the contractual provisions that we rely on, in part, to protect our trade secrets and proprietary knowledge may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach and our trade secrets and proprietary information may be disclosed to the public, • our trade secrets may become known without breach of such agreements or may be independently developed by competitors, • foreign countries, including some of those in which we conduct business, may reduce or limit the protection of our intellectual property rights and software piracy, particularly in certain countries in Asia, may cause us to lose revenue in those countries or customers with worldwide operations, and • the cost of enforcing our intellectual property rights, including actions currently on going, may reduce our future profitability. Our financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected by international business risks. The majority of our employees, including sales, support and research and development personnel, are located outside of the United States. Similarly, the majority of our revenue is derived from customers outside the United States and certain intellectual property is owned by subsidiary companies located outside the United States. Conducting business outside of the United States is subject to numerous risks, including: • decreased liquidity resulting from longer accounts receivable collection cycles typical of certain foreign countries, 9 Table of Contents • decreased revenue on foreign sales resulting from possible foreign currency exchange and conversion issues, • lower productivity resulting from difficulties managing our sales, support, and research and development operations across many countries, • decreased earnings based on changes in tax regulations in foreign jurisdictions or the timing of required tax payments in foreign jurisdictions that may not yet be offset by tax benefits arising from losses in other jurisdictions, • lost revenue resulting from difficulties associated with enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems, • interruptions of our operations due to political and social conditions of the countries in which we do business, • lost revenue resulting from the imposition by foreign governments of trade protection measures, and • higher cost of sales resulting from import or export licensing requirements. We have more limited financial and other resources than many of our competitors and potential competitors and may be unable to compete successfully against them. We operate in a highly competitive environment and may not be able to successfully compete. Companies in our industry and entities in similar industries could decide to focus on the development of solutions that optimize discrete product development. Many of these entities have substantially greater financial, research and development, manufacturing and marketing resources than we do. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced profitability and loss of market share. Disruption of operations at our development facilities could interfere with our product development and production cycles. A significant portion of our computer equipment, source code and personnel, including critical resources dedicated to research and development, are presently located at operating facilities in Australia, the United States and Europe. The occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated catastrophe at any of these facilities could cause interruptions in our operations and services. Extensive or multiple interruptions in our operations at our development facilities could severely disrupt our operations. Our stock price is highly volatile and our stock price could experience substantial declines and our management’s attention may be diverted from more productive tasks. The stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. In addition, the per share price of our common stock has experienced significant volatility since we have been a public company. Many factors that may cause the market price for our common stock to decline, include the following: • revenues and operating results failing to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, • downward revisions in securities analysts’ estimates or changes in general market conditions, • changes in our senior management personnel, • sale of shares of our common stock by insiders or affiliated persons, • technological innovations by competitors or in competing technologies, • a decrease in the demand for our common stock, • investor perception of our industry or our prospects, and • general technology or economic trends. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the subjects of securities class action litigation. We may be involved in securities class action litigation in the future. Such 10 Table of Contents litigation often results in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Purchase price adjustments related to the disposition of our Manufacturing Solutions division may have a material, adverse impact on our continuing results of operations and on our Net Income (Loss). The net result of the Manufacturing Solutions division’s operations has been included in our net income (loss) for each period during which it was held as discontinued operations. During fiscal 2007, this resulted in a net loss for the fiscal period, as net income from our continuing operations was fully offset by a net loss from discontinued operations. A portion of the purchase price for the assets of the Manufacturing Solutions division was placed in escrow for a period of one year, from the closing of the transaction. In the event that the Company were not to recover the escrowed portion of the purchase price it could result in a material adverse impact on our financial statements and results of operations. There is no assurance that we will be successful in retaining the funds being held in escrow. Our use of third-party and open source software could impose limitations on our ability to commercialize our products. We incorporate both third party and “open source” software and code into many of our products. Although we actively monitor our use of open source in our development efforts, the terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by U.S. courts. Therefore, it is possible that such licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to sell and market our products based on our use of open source. While we believe we have complied with our obligations under the various applicable licenses for open source software to avoid subjecting our proprietary products to conditions we do not intend, in the event the copyright holder of any open source software were to successfully establish in court that we had not complied with the terms of a license for a particular work, we could be required to release the source code of that work to the public, stop distribution of that work and/or recall our products that include that work. Therefore, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our products; to make generally available, in source code form, proprietary code that links to certain open source modules; to re-engineer our products; or to recall and/or discontinue the sale of our products in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis, any of which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 