ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. The following risk factors, among others, could cause our financial performance to differ significantly from the goals, plans, objectives, intentions, beliefs, and expectations expressed in this report. If any of the following risks and uncertainties or other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or not currently considered to be material actually occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could be harmed substantially. We will need to secure additional funds and if we are unable to secure adequate funds on terms acceptable to us, we will be unable to support our business requirements, build our business or continue as a going concern. At December 31, 2010, we had approximately $1.0 million in cash and cash equivalents and $1.0 million in restricted cash. As such, our cash balances are not sufficient to satisfy our anticipated cash requirements for normal operations, to meet our immediate debt service and other obligations regarding our indebtedness or capital expenditures for the foreseeable future. Our operating activities used approximately $26.8 million of cash for the year ended December 31, 2010 and approximately $23.5 million of cash during the year ended December 31, 2009. We have incurred substantial losses since inception and we are not operating at cash breakeven. Obligations that exert further pressure on our liquidity situation include the obligation to pay interest of $2.2 million semi-annually on our 8.00% Convertible Senior Notes Due 2013. We have incurred losses since inception and we are not operating at cash flow breakeven. Our cash balance at year end is not sufficient to fully fund our business plan or to satisfy our cash requirements for normal operations, to meet our immediate debt service aon other obligations regarding our indebtedness or our anticipated development activities over the next twelve months. In view of our capital requirements, current cash resources, nondiscretionary expenses, debt and near term debt service obligations, we intend to explore all strategic alternatives to maintain our business as a going concern including, but not limited to, a sale or merger of our company, or one or more other transactions that may include a comprehensive financial reorganization of our company. Our continuation as a going concern is dependent on efforts to secure additional funding, increase revenues, reduce expenses, and ultimately achieve profitable operations. The current economic environment will make it challenging for us to access the funds that we need, on terms acceptable to us, to successfully pursue our development plans and operations. The cost of raising capital in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially while the availability of funds from those markets generally has diminished significantly. If we are unable to raise sufficient, additional capital on reasonable terms, we may be unable to satisfy our existing obligations, or to execute our plans. In such case, we would be required to curtail or cease operations, liquidate or sell assets, modify our current plans for plant construction, well field development or other development activities, or pursue other actions that would adversely affect future operations. Further, reduction of expenditures could have a negative impact on our business. A reduction of expenditures would make it more difficult for us to execute our plans to develop geothermal power plants in accordance with our expectations. In order to continue our business operations and execute our business strategy, we will need to secure additional funding from other sources through the issuance of debt, preferred stock, equity or a combination of these instruments. We may also seek to obtain financing through a joint venture, the sale of one or more of our projects or interests therein, entry into pre-paid power purchase agreements with utilities or municipalities, a merger and/or other transaction, a consequence of which could include the sale or issuance of stock to third parties. We cannot be certain that funding that we seek from any of these sources will be available on reasonable terms or at all. If we raise additional capital through the issuance of equity or securities convertible into equity, our stockholders may experience dilution. Any new securities we issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the holders of our common stock, such as dividend rights or anti-dilution protections. We have previously issued warrants to acquire our common stock in connection with certain transactions. Some of these warrants continue to be outstanding and contain anti-dilution provisions. Pursuant to these anti-dilution provisions, the exercise price of the applicable warrants will be adjusted if we issue equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities at a price lower than the exercise price of the applicable warrants. We may also seek additional capital by debt financing. However, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally, and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets generally has increased as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt at maturity on terms that are similar to existing debt, and reduced, or in some cases ceased, to provide funding to borrowers. In addition, any indebtedness we incur could constrict our liquidity, result in substantial cash outflows, and adversely affect our financial health and ability to obtain financing in the future. Any such debt would likely contain restrictive covenants that may impair our ability to obtain future additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate or other purposes, and a substantial portion of cash flows, if any, from our operations may be dedicated to interest payments and debt repayment, thereby reducing the funds available to us for other purposes. Any failure by us to satisfy our obligations with respect to these potential debt obligations would likely constitute a default under such credit facilities. 29 If we are unable to obtain substantial additional capital, we may need to seek protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, which could result in a loss of your entire investment. We are experiencing significant liquidity constraints. If we are not able to obtain sufficient capital either from the sale of assets or external sources of investment to fund our immediate debt service requirements, we may determine that it is in the Company’s best interests to seek relief through a pre-packaged, pre-negotiated or other type of filing under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, and to do so prior to an acceleration event under any of arrangements with regard to the Company’s current indebtedness, including, without limitation, the terms of the Company’s Forbearance Agreement with the Thermo Lenders that expires April 15, 2011 unless they receive payment of $6.75 million, the Indenture with regard to the Company’s 8% Convertible Senior Notes Due 2013, which may accelerate in the event that the interest payment due April 1, 2011, in the amount of $2.2 million, is not paid on or before May 1, 2011, and the Forbearance Agreement with Merrill Lynch that expires June 30, 2011, unless it receives certain sums from the sale of Thermo No. 1. In the event we seek protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, it may be necessary, in order to obtain the approval of our creditors and the Bankruptcy Court to a plan of reorganization for the Company, to eliminate and cancel all existing equity of the Company, including common stock, options, warrants and other securities that are linked to our equity, which will result in a loss of the entire investment of the holders of such securities, including our stockholders. Further, if we were unable to implement a plan of reorganization or if sufficient debtor-in-possession financing were not available, we could be forced to liquidate under Chapter 7 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, which would result in a loss of your entire investment. Funding needed to develop geothermal power projects may be unavailable. A substantial capital investment will be necessary to develop each geothermal power project we may seek to develop. Our continued access to capital through project financing or other arrangements is necessary for us to complete the geothermal power projects we plan to develop. We have had difficulty raising the necessary capital to properly fund our geothermal power projects and our future attempts to secure capital on acceptable terms may not be successful. Market conditions and other factors may not permit us to obtain sufficient funding for geothermal projects on terms favorable to us. Our ability to arrange for financing and the costs of such financing, are dependent on numerous factors, including general economic and capital market conditions, credit availability from banks, investor confidence, the success of our projects, the credit quality of the projects being financed, the credit quality of our customers, the political situation in the state in which the project is located and the continued existence of tax and securities laws which are conducive to raising capital. If we are not able to obtain financing for our projects on a substantially non-recourse or limited recourse basis, or if we are unable to secure capital through partnership or other arrangements, we may, if available, have to finance the projects using recourse capital such as direct equity investments, which would have a dilutive effect on our common stock. Also, in the absence of favorable financing or other capital options, we may decide not to pursue certain projects. Any of these alternatives could have a material adverse effect on our growth prospects and financial condition. In addition, the tax benefits originating from geothermal power projects are anticipated to provide a substantial portion of the funding of the geothermal projects. This tax equity has traditionally been driven by the tax liability of the major financial industry companies. Many of these companies are currently experiencing significantly reduced income or incurring substantial losses. As a result, they are seeking fewer tax-advantaged investments and this may reduce the amount of readily available tax credit equity available for our geothermal projects or reduce the amount of tax equity that can be obtained as these investors seek higher rates of return for the tax equity they invest. The United States Congress passed the Recovery Act in 2009. The Recovery Act provides certain economic incentives, such as clean energy grants, that are designed to provide developers of geothermal and other clean energy projects with cash to help fund the projects. These incentives are designed, in part, to address some of the current problems in the tax equity markets and provide an alternative funding mechanism. Accordingly, part of our short-term strategy to obtain additional funding includes applications for loan guarantees and government grants. During 2009, one of our applications for loan guarantees was denied and we were not awarded small grants for three projects that we applied for in connection with certain exploration activities. We cannot predict whether we will be able to successfully obtain additional grants or loan guarantees under these new government programs. Although we are seeking loan guarantees and grants from the government, we will still need to obtain financing from other sources for the development of our projects. Many of our projects will require funding for early-stage development activities, such as drilling, as well as more traditional project financing for the construction of the power plant. Early-stage development activities, such as drilling at potential project sites, preliminary engineering, permitting, legal fees and other expenses can be difficult to finance. Project financing is not typically available for these preliminary activities. As a result, we have generally had to fund these activities out of funds available for general corporate purposes. 30 We may incur dilution of our investment in Via Motors if more than $10 million of equity capital is necessary to execute its business plan. Our agreement with Via Motors includes anti-dilution protection for the first additional $10.0 million in equity raised. Any equity raised in excess of that amount will dilute our investment in Via Motors unless we participate on at least a proportionate basis with the new equity raised. Our ability to provide such capital is limited. The terms of certain rights we have granted security holders may make it more difficult for us to sell additional securities. Certain terms and conditions included in securities that we have sold, or rights granted to purchasers of securities we have sold, may make it more difficult for us to negotiate and complete sales of our securities in the future. The terms of our outstanding securities could also require us to issue additional shares to purchasers of securities we have sold, or adjust the price of outstanding warrants to purchase our common stock. Outstanding warrants to purchase 1,350,000 shares of our common stock provide for anti-dilution protection, which adjusts the exercise price of each warrant, from time to time upon the occurrence of certain events, including the issuance of shares of common stock at a price lower than the exercise price, stock splits, dividends, recapitalizations and similar events. These price adjustment provisions may result in dilution to potential investors, which could make investments in our securities less attractive to potential investors, and could adversely affect our ability to negotiate with potential investors. Failure to maintain effectiveness for our Form S-3 Registration Statement may be a default under certain agreements related to other securities. If our Form S-3 Registration Statement becomes ineffective, a default may arise with regard to securities that we have sold that may result in penalties being incurred by the Company or an acceleration of the maturity date, in the case of indebtedness. On October 26, 2010, we received notification from the NYSE informing us of their decision to suspend the trading of our common stock on the NYSE and informed us of its intention to suspend trading of our common stock prior to the market opening on November 3, 2010. The NYSE also notified us of its intention to file an application with the Securities and Exchange Commission to delist the Company's common stock from the NYSE, pending completion of applicable NYSE procedures, which included our right to appeal the NYSE's decision. In view of the action to be taken by the NYSE, we took appropriate steps to have our common stock quoted on the Over-the Counter Bulletin Board ("OTCBB") starting November 3, 2010. Based upon the fact that our common stock no longer is registered for trading on a national exchange, and the value of the common stock held by non-affiliates of the Company as of the end of our second fiscal quarter, our registration statement on Form S-3 became ineffective when we filed our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010. Certain change of control provisions contained in the agreements related to our securities may adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital. Certain terms and conditions relating to change of control provisions included in the agreement related to our securities or rights granted to purchases of our securities may make it difficult to raise additional capital to fund future operations. The terms of our outstanding securities could also require us to issue additional shares to purchasers of securities we have sold, further diluting the number of shares held by stockholders. These provisions could make raising additional capital or pursuing a strategic partner to purchase an interest in our Company difficult. The geothermal power production development activities of our Power Systems segment may not be successful. We are devoting a substantial amount of our available resources to the power production development activities of our Power Systems segment. To date, we have placed one geothermal power plant in service, and we continue our efforts to ramp up production of that plant. We also completed drilling our first production well at our second project site. However, our ability to successfully achieve full capacity at that plant and complete the development of our second project and the development of additional projects is uncertain. In connection with our first power plant, Thermo No. 1, we experienced unexpected difficulties and delays in completing the project and operating the plant at full capacity. While we have gained valuable experience that could benefit future projects, we could experience similar unexpected difficulties at future projects, which could adversely affect the economics of those projects. As a result, we cannot be certain that we will be able to operate any of our plants at full capacity on an economic basis. 31 Our success in developing a particular geothermal project is contingent upon, among other things, locating and developing a viable geothermal site, negotiation of satisfactory engineering, procurement and construction agreements, negotiation of satisfactory power purchase agreements, receipt of required governmental permits, obtaining interconnection rights, obtaining transmission service rights, obtaining adequate financing, and the timely implementation and satisfactory completion of construction. We may be unsuccessful in accomplishing any of these necessary requirements or doing so on a timely basis. We have limited operating experience and revenue, and we are not currently profitable. We expect to continue to incur net losses for the foreseeable future, and we may never achieve or maintain profitability. We have a limited operating history and, from our inception, we have earned limited revenue from operations. We have incurred significant net losses in each year of our operations, including a net loss applicable to common stockholders of approximately $105.7 million and $20.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. As a result of ongoing operating losses, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $215.4 million on cumulative revenues during the last three years of approximately $6.6 million as of December 31, 2010. In addition, at December 31, 2010, we had negative working capital totaling $45.7 million. Under our current growth plan, we do not expect that our revenues and cash flows will be sufficient to cover our expenses unless we are able to successfully place a number of power plants in service. As a result, we expect to continue to incur substantial losses until we are able to generate significant revenues. Our ability to generate significant revenues and become profitable will depend on many factors, including our ability to: · secure adequate capital; · identify and secure productive geothermal sites; · verify that the properties in which we have acquired an interest contain geothermal resources that are sufficient to generate electricity; · acquire electrical transmission and interconnection rights for geothermal plants we intend to develop; · enter into power purchase agreements for the sale of electrical power from the geothermal power plants we intend to develop at prices that support our operating and financing costs; · enter into additional tax equity partner agreements with potential financing partners that will provide for the allocation of tax benefits to them and for the contribution of capital by them to our projects or to successfully utilize new incentive provisions being implemented by the United States government; · finance and complete the development of multiple geothermal power plants; · manage construction, drilling and operating costs associated with our geothermal power projects; · comply with applicable governmental regulations; and · attract and retain qualified personnel. Our independent registered public accounting firm’s report on our financial statements questions our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm’s report on our financial statements as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 and for the three year period ended December 31, 2010 expresses doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Their report includes an explanatory paragraph stating that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern due to the lack of sufficient capital, as of the date their report was issued, to support our business plan through the end of 2011. We will need to secure additional capital in the future and if we are unable to secure adequate funds on terms acceptable to us, we will be unable to support our business requirements, build our business or continue as a going concern. Accordingly, we can offer no assurance that the actions we plan to take to address these conditions will be successful. Inclusion of a “going concern qualification” in the report of our independent accountants or any future report may have a negative impact on our ability to obtain financing and may adversely impact our stock price. The current worldwide political and economic conditions, specifically disruptions in the capital and credit markets, may materially and adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition. Continuing general worldwide recessionary economic conditions and capital market contractions experienced initially as a result of the subprime-mortgage turmoil and other factors, but continuing due to slower economic activity, concerns about inflation and deflation, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, international conflicts, terrorist and military activity, and the impact of natural disasters and public health emergencies, materially and adversely affect our ability to obtain additional equity investment and debt financing. If the current market conditions continue or worsen, our business, operations and financial condition will likely be materially and adversely affected. 32 The United States credit and capital markets have become increasingly volatile as a result of adverse conditions that have caused the failure and near failure of a number of large financial services companies. If the capital and credit markets continue to experience volatility and the availability of funds remains limited, our ability to obtain needed financing on favorable terms could be severely limited. In the current environment, lenders may seek more restrictive lending provisions and higher interest rates that may reduce our ability to obtain financing and increase our costs. Also, lenders may simply be unwilling or unable to provide financing. Longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to capital needed for our operations and development plans. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing, we could be forced to reduce, delay or cancel planned capital expenditures, sell assets or seek additional equity capital, or pursue other actions that could adversely affect future operations. Failure to obtain sufficient financing or a reduction of expenditures may cause delays and make it more difficult to execute our plans to develop geothermal power plants in accordance with our expectations. The market price for our common stock has experienced significant price and volume volatility and is likely to continue to experience significant volatility in the future. Such volatility may cause investors to experience dramatic declines in our stock price from time to time, may impair our ability to secure additional financing and may otherwise harm our business. The closing price of our common stock declined significantly during 2010. The closing price fluctuated from a high of $1.38 per share to a low of $0.15 per share during the year. Our stock price is likely to experience significant volatility in the future as a result of numerous factors outside of our control, including the level of short sale transactions. As a result, the market price of our stock may not reflect our intrinsic value. In addition, following periods of volatility in our stock price, there may be increased risk that securities litigation, governmental investigations or enforcement proceedings may be instituted against us. Any such litigation, and investigation or other procedures, regardless of merits, could materially harm our business and cause our stock price to decline due to potential diversion of management attention and harm to our business reputation. In addition, because the market price for our common stock remained below $5.00 per share, our common stock is deemed to be a penny stock, and therefore subject to rules that impose additional sales practices on broker-dealers who sell our securities. For example, broker-dealers must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to sale. Also, a disclosure schedule must be delivered to each purchaser of a penny stock, disclosing sales commissions and current quotations for the securities. Monthly statements are also required to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. Because of these additional conditions, some brokers may choose to not effect transactions in penny stocks. This could have an adverse effect on the liquidity of our common stock. The volatility in our stock price could impair our ability to raise additional capital. Further, to the extent we do raise additional funds through equity financing, we may need to issue such equity at a substantial discount to the market price for our stock. This, in turn, could contribute to the volatility in our stock price. In addition, in connection with future equity financing transactions, we may be required to issue additional shares of stock to investors who purchased securities from us in prior transactions, and future equity financings may result in adjustments to the exercise price of our outstanding warrants. These factors could also contribute to volatility in our stock price. Our common stock is a "penny stock." Our common stock is a "penny stock" under Section 15(g) of the Exchange Act. A consequence of being designated a "penny stock" is that securities broker-dealers cannot recommend our common stock but can only trade in it on an unsolicited basis. Resale restrictions on transferring “penny stocks” are sometimes imposed by some states, which may make transactions in our common stock more difficult and may reduce the value of the investment. Various state securities laws impose restrictions on transferring “penny stocks” and as a result, investors in our common stock may have the ability to sell their shares of our common stock impaired. Certain foreign countries also impose limitations and restrictions on the ability of their citizens to own stock that is not traded on a recognized exchange, which, in certain instances, does not include the OTCBB. Broker-dealer requirements for trading “penny stocks” may affect trading and liquidity. Section 15(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Rule 15g-2 promulgated there under by the SEC require broker-dealers dealing in penny stocks to provide potential investors with a document disclosing the risks of penny stocks and to obtain a manually signed and dated written receipt of the document before effecting any transaction in a penny stock for the investor's account. 33 Potential investors in our common stock are urged to obtain and read such disclosure carefully before purchasing any shares that are deemed to be "penny stock." Moreover, Rule 15g-9 requires broker-dealers in penny stocks to approve the account of any investor for transactions in such stocks before selling any penny stock to that investor. This procedure requires the broker-dealer to (i) obtain from the investor information concerning his or her financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives; (ii) reasonably determine, based on that information, that transactions in penny stocks are suitable for the investor and that the investor has sufficient knowledge and experience as to be reasonably capable of evaluating the risks of penny stock transactions; (iii) provide the investor with a written statement setting forth the basis on which the broker-dealer made the determination in (ii) above; and (iv) receive a signed and dated copy of such statement from the investor, confirming that it accurately reflects the investor's financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives. Compliance with these requirements may make it more difficult for holders of our common stock to resell their shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them in the market or otherwise. The financial performance of our Power Systems segment is subject to changes in the legal and regulatory environment. Our geothermal power projects are and will be subject to extensive regulation. Changes in applicable laws or regulations, or interpretations of those laws and regulations, could result in increased compliance costs and require additional capital expenditures. Future changes could also reduce or eliminate certain benefits that are currently available. Federal and state energy regulation is subject to frequent challenges, modifications, the imposition of additional regulatory requirements, and restructuring proposals. We may not be able to obtain or maintain all regulatory approvals or modifications to existing regulatory approvals that may be required in the future. In addition, the cost of operation and maintenance and the financial performance of geothermal power plants may be adversely affected by changes in certain laws and regulations, including tax laws. In order to promote the production of renewable energy, including geothermal energy, the federal government has created several significant tax incentives. The continuation of these tax incentives are instrumental to our ability to finance and develop geothermal power plants by providing increased economic benefits. If the available tax incentives were reduced or eliminated, the economics of the projects would be adversely affected and there could be reductions in our overall profitability or the amount of funding available from tax equity partners. Some projects may not be viable without these tax incentives. All of these programs providing current tax incentives are subject to review and change by Congress from time to time. In addition, several of the programs are currently scheduled to expire, and continuation of those incentives will require affirmative Congressional action. Moreover, there are ambiguities as to how some of the provisions of the Recovery Act will operate. Many of the tax incentives associated with geothermal power projects generally are beneficial only if the owners of the project have sufficient taxable income to utilize the tax incentives. Due to the nature and timing of these tax incentives, it is likely that the tax incentives available in connection with our geothermal power plants (other than the grant in lieu of the ITC and PTC) will exceed our ability to efficiently utilize these tax benefits for at least several years of operations. Therefore, an important part of our strategy involves partnering with investors that are able to utilize the tax incentives to offset taxable income associated with their operations unrelated to our geothermal power plants. However, there are no assurances that there will be investors interested in such tax incentives or who would agree to compensate the Company for such tax incentives on terms acceptable to us Tax reform has the potential to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. Tax reform could reduce or eliminate the value of the tax subsidies currently available to geothermal projects. Any restrictions or tightening of the rules for lease or partnership transactions, whether or not part of major tax reform, could also materially affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. In addition, changes to the Internal Revenue Code could significantly increase the regulatory-related compliance and other expenses incurred by geothermal projects which, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. Any such changes could also make it more difficult for us to obtain financing for future projects. A significant part of our business strategy is to utilize the tax and other incentives available to developers of geothermal power generating plants to attract strategic alliance partners with the capital sufficient to complete these projects. Many of the incentives available for these projects are new and highly complex. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in structuring agreements that are attractive to potential strategic alliance partners. If we are unable to do so, we may be unable to complete the development of our geothermal power projects and our business could be harmed. The exploration, development, and operation of geothermal energy resources by our Power Systems segment is subject to geological risks and uncertainties, which may result in decreased performance, increased costs, or abandonment of our projects. Our Power Systems segment is involved in the exploration, development and operation of geothermal energy resources. These activities are subject to uncertainties, which vary among different geothermal resources. These uncertainties include dry holes, flow-constrained wells, wells that become obstructed during drilling, uncontrolled releases of pressure and temperature decline, and other factors, all of which can increase our operating costs and capital expenditures or reduce the efficiency of our power plants. In addition, the high temperature and high pressure in geothermal energy resources requires special resource management and monitoring. Because geothermal resources are complex geological structures, we can only estimate their geographic area. The viability of geothermal projects depends on different factors directly related to the geothermal resource, such as the heat content (the relevant composition of temperature and pressure) flow of the geothermal resource, the useful life (commercially exploitable life) of the resource and operational factors relating to the extraction of geothermal fluids. Although we believe our geothermal resources will be fully renewable if managed appropriately, the geothermal resources we intend to exploit may not be sufficient for sustained generation of the anticipated electrical power capacity over time. Further, any of our geothermal resources may suffer an unexpected decline in capacity. In addition, we may fail to find commercially viable geothermal resources in the expected quantities and temperatures, which would adversely affect our development of geothermal power projects. 34 The operation of geothermal power plants depends on the continued availability of adequate geothermal resources. Although we believe our geothermal resources will be fully renewable if managed properly, we cannot be certain that any geothermal resource will remain adequate for the life of a geothermal power plant. If the geothermal resources available to a power plant we develop become inadequate, we may be unable to perform under the power purchase agreement for the affected power plant, which in turn could reduce our revenues and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. If we suffer degradation in our geothermal resources, our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover losses sustained as a result thereof. Our ability to operate a geothermal plant at full capacity depends significantly on the characteristics of the production wells we drill to use for the plant. The wells need to provide sufficient heat at flow rates that can be maintained without a significant increase in the parasitic load associated with the plant. The parasitic load refers to the amount of electricity used by the plant and well field to maintain operations. A significant portion of the parasitic load results from pumps and other equipment used to maintain the flow of geothermal water from the earth through the plant and back into the earth through reinjection wells. Generally, water with a higher temperature will allow the plant to operate with a slower rate of flow, which results in a decrease in the parasitic load because less electricity is required to maintain the necessary flow rate. Water with lower temperatures, on the other hand, requires a higher flow rate to operate the plant, which increases the parasitic load. Unless the water produced by a well is hot enough to increase the amount of power generated by the plant without a corresponding increase to the parasitic load, the well will not result in a net increase in the amount of power available for sale from the plant. Therefore, the overall temperature of the water produced by the production wells is critical to our ability to operate the plant at full capacity. Similarly, a deeper resource increases parasitic load because the pumps have to lift the water a greater distance. We cannot be certain whether wells will increase net production at a plant until the wells are brought online and the impact to the parasitic load at the plant has been determined. We have experienced certain delays and cost overruns on the Thermo No. 1 plant, and we may experience similar delays and cost overruns on subsequent projects. We completed major construction of the cooling towers and transmission lines and installed the power generating units at the Thermo No. 1 plant in the fourth quarter of 2008. We completed the commissioning of the plant in the first quarter of 2009. In April 2009, we began selling electricity generated by the Thermo No. 1 plant to the City of Anaheim pursuant to a power purchase agreement we previously entered into with Anaheim. Although we placed the Thermo No. 1 plant in service in the first quarter of 2009 for accounting purposes, we were unable to operate the plant at designed capacity due primarily to mechanical deficiencies of the power generating units, and other issues and inefficiencies which occurred as a result of overall design of the plant. If we are unable to find adequate solutions for the problems we are encountering with the construction and operation of the Thermo No. 1 plant, we may experience similar delays and cost overruns on subsequent projects. Our Power Systems segment operations may be materially adversely affected if we fail to properly manage and maintain our geothermal resources. Our geothermal power plants use geothermal resources to generate electricity. When we develop a geothermal power plant, we conduct hydrologic and geologic studies. Based on these studies, we consider all of the geothermal resources used in our power plants to be fully renewable. Unless additional hydrologic and geologic studies confirm otherwise, there are a number of events that could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate electricity from a geothermal resource and/or shorten the operational duration of a geothermal resource, which could cause the applicable geothermal resource to become a non-renewable wasting asset. These events include: · Any increase in power generation above the amount our hydrological and geological studies indicate that the applicable geothermal resource will support; · Failure to recycle all of the geothermal fluids used in connection with the applicable geothermal resource · Failure to properly maintain the hydrological balance of the applicable geothermal resource; and · Earthquakes which could adversely impact the flow of geothermal fluids under the surface. 35 While we intend to properly manage and maintain our geothermal resources in order to ensure that they are fully renewable, our ability to do so could be subject to unforeseen risks and uncertainties beyond our control. Our Power Systems segment may be materially adversely affected if we are unable to successfully utilize certain heat transfer technologies in our geothermal power projects. Our Power Systems segment intends to utilize certain heat transfer technologies in its geothermal power projects. One of the providers of these heat transfer technologies is PWPS. PWPS’s heat transfer technologies are designed to enable the generation of power from geothermal resources that are lower in temperature than those resources used in traditional flash steam geothermal projects. PWPS’s heat transfer technologies have a limited operating history and have only been deployed in a limited number of geothermal power projects. Although we are using these technologies in our Thermo No. 1 plant, that power plant has only been operating for a short time. As a result, we cannot be certain that PWPS’s heat transfer technologies or other vendors’ heat transfer technologies can be successfully implemented. If we are not able to successfully utilize heat transfer technologies in our geothermal power projects and we are unable to utilize appropriate substitute technologies, we may be unable to develop our projects and our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. The costs of compliance with environmental laws and of obtaining and maintaining environmental permits and governmental approvals required for construction and/or operation of geothermal power plants are substantial, and any non-compliance with such laws or regulations may result in the imposition of liabilities, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. Our geothermal power projects are required to comply with numerous federal, regional, state and local statutory and regulatory environmental standards. Geothermal projects must also maintain numerous environmental permits and governmental approvals required for construction and/or operation. Environmental permits and governmental approvals typically contain conditions and restrictions, including restrictions or limits on emissions and discharges of pollutants and contaminants, or may have limited terms. If we fail to satisfy these conditions or comply with these restrictions, or we fail to comply with any statutory or regulatory environmental standards, we may become subject to a regulatory enforcement action and the operation of the projects could be adversely affected or be subject to fines, penalties or additional costs. The geothermal power projects we develop could expose us to significant liability for violations of hazardous substances laws because of the use or presence of such substances. The geothermal power projects we develop will be subject to numerous federal, regional, state and local statutory and regulatory standards relating to the use, storage and disposal of hazardous substances. We may use industrial lubricants, water treatment chemicals and other substances at our projects that could be classified as hazardous substances. If any hazardous substances are found to have been released into the environment at or near the projects, we could become liable for the investigation and removal of those substances, regardless of their source and time of release. If we fail to comply with these laws, ordinances or regulations or any change thereto, we could be subject to civil or criminal liability, the imposition of liens or fines, and large expenditures to bring the projects into compliance. Furthermore, we can be held liable for the cleanup of releases of hazardous substances at other locations where we arranged for disposal of those substances, even if we did not cause the release at that location. The cost of any remediation activities in connection with a spill or other release of such substances could be significant. In order to finance the development of our geothermal power projects, we may transfer a portion of our equity interest in the individual projects to a third party and enter into long-term fixed price power purchase agreements. Under generally accepted accounting principles, this may result in the deconsolidation of these subsidiaries, and the reflection of only our net ownership interests in our financial statements. Each of the geothermal power projects our Power Systems segment develops will likely be owned by a separate subsidiary. The geothermal power projects developed by these subsidiaries will likely be separately financed. To obtain the financing necessary to develop the geothermal power projects, we may transfer a portion of our equity interest in the individual subsidiaries to a third party and enter into long-term fixed price power purchase agreements. Depending upon the nature of these arrangements and the application of generally accepted accounting principles, we may be required to deconsolidate one or more or all of these subsidiaries, which would result in our share of the net profits or loss generated by the deconsolidated entities being presented as a net amount in our financial statements. As a result, our financial statements would not reflect the gross revenues and expenses of the deconsolidated entities. However, we do not expect the effect of such deconsolidation, if required, to have an impact on our stockholders’ equity (deficit), net income/loss or earnings/loss per share. 36 Our foreign projects expose us to risks related to the application of foreign laws, taxes, economic conditions, labor supply and relations, political conditions, and policies of foreign governments, any of which risks may delay or reduce our ability to profit from such projects. We have accumulated a large portfolio of geothermal interests in four western continental states and a geothermal concession in Indonesia. These geothermal interests are important to our ability to develop geothermal power plants. We continue to accumulate additional interests in geothermal resources for potential future projects. Our foreign operations are subject to regulation by various foreign governments and regulatory authorities and are subject to the application of foreign laws. Such foreign laws or regulations may not provide for the same type of legal certainty and rights, in connection with our contractual relationships in such countries, as are afforded to our projects in the United States, which may adversely affect our ability to receive revenues or enforce our rights in connection with our foreign operations. Furthermore, existing laws or regulations may be amended or repealed, and new laws or regulations may be enacted or issued. In addition, the laws and regulations of some countries may limit our ability to hold a majority interest in some of the projects that we may develop or acquire, thus limiting our ability to control the development, construction and operation of such projects. Our foreign operations are also subject to significant political, economic and financial risks, which vary by country, and include: · changes in government policies or personnel; · changes in general economic conditions; · restrictions on currency transfer or convertibility; · changes in labor relations; · political instability and civil unrest; · changes in the local electricity market; · breach or repudiation of important contractual undertakings by governmental entities; and · expropriation and confiscation of assets and facilities. Our foreign projects may expose us to risks related to fluctuations in currency rates, which may reduce our profits from such projects. Risks attributable to fluctuations in currency exchange rates can arise when any of our foreign subsidiaries borrow funds or incur operating or other expenses in one type of currency but receive revenues in another. In such cases, an adverse change in exchange rates can reduce such subsidiary’s ability to meet its debt service obligations, reduce the amount of cash and income we receive from such foreign subsidiary or increase such subsidiary’s overall expenses. In addition, the imposition by foreign governments of restrictions on the transfer of foreign currency abroad, or restrictions on the conversion of local currency into foreign currency, would have an adverse effect on the operations of our foreign projects and foreign manufacturing operations, and may limit or diminish the amount of cash and income that we receive from such foreign projects and operations. A significant portion of our net revenue is attributed to payments made by power purchasers under power purchase agreements. The failure of any such power purchaser to perform its obligations under the relevant power purchase agreement or the loss of a power purchase agreement due to a default would reduce our net income and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. A significant portion of our net revenue is attributed to revenues derived from power purchasers under the relevant power purchase agreements. The City of Anaheim has accounted for 100%, of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010. Due to the fact that we currently have a single customer, our ability to realize accounts receivable from power sales are dependent on the continued ability of the City of Anaheim to make timely payments. We do not make any representations as to the financial condition or creditworthiness of any purchaser under a power purchase agreement, and nothing in this annual report should be construed as such a representation. There is a risk that the City of Anaheim or any future power purchasers may not fulfill their respective payment obligations under their power purchase agreements. If any of the power purchasers fails to meet its payment obligations under its power purchase agreements, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. If any of our domestic projects loses its current Qualifying Facility status under PURPA, or if amendments to PURPA are enacted that substantially reduce the benefits currently afforded to Qualifying Facilities, our domestic operations could be adversely affected. Most of our domestic projects are Qualifying Facilities pursuant to PURPA and are eligible for regulatory exemptions from most provisions of the FPA and certain state laws and regulations, which largely exempts the projects from the FPA, and certain state and local laws and regulations regarding rates and financial and organizational requirements for electric utilities. If any of our domestic projects were to lose its Qualifying Facility status, such project could become subject to the full scope of the FPA and applicable state regulation. The application of the FPA and other applicable state regulation to our domestic projects could require our operations to comply with an increasingly complex regulatory regime that may be costly and greatly reduce our operational flexibility. 37 In addition, pursuant to the FPA, FERC has exclusive rate-making jurisdiction over wholesale sales of electricity and transmission of public utilities in interstate commerce. These rates may be based on a cost of service approach or may be determined on a market basis through competitive bidding or negotiation. Qualifying Facilities are largely exempt from the FPA. If a domestic project were to lose its Qualifying Facility status, it would become a public utility under the FPA, and the rates charged by such project pursuant to its power purchase agreements would be subject to the review and approval of FERC. FERC, upon such review, may determine that the rates currently set forth in such power purchase agreements are not appropriate and may set rates that are lower than the rates currently charged. In addition, FERC may require that some or all of our domestic projects refund amounts previously paid by the relevant power purchaser to such project. Such events would likely result in a decrease in our future revenues or in an obligation to disgorge revenues previously received from our domestic projects, either of which would have an adverse effect on our revenues. Even if a project does not lose its Qualifying Facility status, pursuant to a final rule issued by FERC for projects above 20 MW, if a project’s power purchase agreement is terminated or otherwise expires, and the subsequent sales are not made pursuant to a state’s implementation of PURPA, that project will become subject to FERC’s ratemaking jurisdiction under the FPA. Moreover, a loss of Qualifying Facility status also could permit the power purchaser, pursuant to the terms of the particular power purchase agreement, to cease taking and paying for electricity from the relevant project or, consistent with FERC precedent, to seek refunds of past amounts paid. This could cause the loss of some or all of our revenues payable pursuant to the related power purchase agreements, result in significant liability for refunds of past amounts paid, or otherwise impair the value of our projects. If a power purchaser were to cease taking and paying for electricity or seek to obtain refunds of past amounts paid, there can be no assurance that the costs incurred in connection with the project could be recovered through sales to other purchasers or that we would have sufficient funds to make such payments. In addition, the loss of Qualifying Facility status would be an event of default under the financing arrangements currently in place for some of our projects, which would enable the lenders to exercise their remedies and enforce the liens on the relevant project. Pursuant to the EPACT 2005, FERC was also given authority to prospectively lift the mandatory obligation of a utility under PURPA to offer to purchase the electricity from a Qualifying Facility if the utility operates in a workably competitive market. Existing power purchase agreements between a Qualifying Facility and a utility are not affected. If the utilities in the regions in which our domestic projects operate were to be relieved of the mandatory purchase obligation, they would not be required to purchase energy from the project in the region under Federal law upon termination of the existing power purchase agreement or with respect to new projects, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. Some of our leases will terminate if we do not achieve commercial production during the primary term of the lease, thus requiring us to enter into new leases or secure rights to alternate geothermal resources, none of which may be available on terms as favorable to us as any such terminated lease, if at all. Most of our geothermal resource leases are for a fixed primary term, and then continue for so long as we achieve commercial production or pursuant to other terms of extension. The land covered by some of our leases is undeveloped and has not yet achieved commercial production of the geothermal resources. Leases that cover land which remains undeveloped and does not achieve commercial production and leases that we allow to expire, will terminate. In the event that a lease is terminated and we determine that we will need that lease once the applicable project is operating, we would need to enter into one or more new leases with the owner(s) of the premises that are the subject of the terminated lease(s) in order to develop geothermal resources from, or inject geothermal resources into, such premises or secure rights to alternate geothermal resources or lands suitable for injection, all of which may not be possible or could result in increased cost to us, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. Claims have been made that some geothermal plants cause seismic activity and related property damage. There are approximately two-dozen geothermal plants operating within a fifty-square-mile region in the area of Anderson Springs, in Northern California, and there is general agreement that the operation of these plants causes a generally low level of seismic activity. Some residents in the Anderson Springs area have asserted property damage claims against those plant operators. There are significant issues whether the plant operators are liable, and to date no court has found in favor of such claimants. While we do not believe the areas that we are developing, as noted above, will present the same geological or seismic risks, there can be no assurance that we would not be subject to similar claims and litigation, which may adversely impact our operations and financial condition. Our retained interest in VIA Motors, Inc., the successor to our Transportation & Industrial business segment, may become worthless if VIA Motors is not successful. A significant part of our long-term business strategy for our Transportation & Industrial segment was based upon the commercialization of our Symetron™ technologies through license agreements with electric motor, controller, alternator and generator manufacturers, suppliers and system integrators. The rights to that technology were sold to VIA Motors in connection with the sale of the Transportation & Industrial business segment. Accordingly, the only interest we retain in VIA Motors is the number of shares of common stock that we own which currently represents approximately 31% equity interest which now is approximately 31% after dilution as a result of issuances or reserves for issuances to VIA’s management and board of directors.. 38 The Symetron™ technologies that are material to the success of VIA Motors are relatively new and commercially unproven. There is no assurance that the technologies will prove suitable for their target business segments. It may be years before the technology is proven commercially viable, if at all. They may experience technological issues that they may be unable to overcome. Superior competitive technologies may be introduced or potential customer needs may change resulting in the technology or products being unsuitable for commercialization. The recent economic downturn has had a dramatic, adverse effect on the automotive industry and operators of light duty truck and SUV fleets that would be in a position to use and benefit from the technologies. This may adversely affect the ability to commercialize the Symetron™ technologies until economic conditions improve. VIA Motors, Inc. likely will require additional capital and there is no assurance that such capital will be available or, if available, on terms that are acceptable to the company. Consequently, VIA Motors, Inc. may never succeed in its efforts to commercialize its technologies and may fail and cease to do business and our investment in VIA Motors, Inc. may have no material value. Our investment in VIA Motors, Inc. may be diluted if more than $10 million of equity capital is required to execute their business plan. Our investment in VIA Motors is protected against dilution for the first $10 million of new equity investment. Any equity investment in excess of such amount will dilute our investment unless we participate in the new equity investment on a prorate basis. Presently, and for the foreseeable future, we will not have sufficient funds to participate in new equity investment in VIA Motors. We have not paid our board of directors. As our cash resources have become increasingly constrained, we have deferred expense reimbursements and two quarters of cash director fee payments to our independent directors. As such, we are at risk that they will not continue serve. Without our independent directors, and without the ability to pay replacement directors, our governance system will not be as effective as originally designed and would represent a material weakness in internal controls. We face significant competition. If we fail to compete effectively, our business will suffer. Our Power Systems segment faces significant competition from other companies seeking to develop the geothermal opportunities available. Some of our competitors for geothermal projects have substantial capabilities and greater financial and technical resources than we do. As a result, we may be unable to acquire additional geothermal resources or projects on terms acceptable to us. Our Power Systems segment also competes with producers of energy from other renewable sources. This competition may make it more difficult for us to enter into power purchase agreements for our projects on terms that are acceptable to us. We face competition from companies that have access to substantially greater financial, engineering, manufacturing and other resources than we do, which may enable them to react more effectively to new market opportunities. Many of our competitors may also have greater name recognition and market presence than we do, which may allow them to market themselves more effectively to new customers or partners. We may pursue strategic acquisitions that could have an adverse impact on our business. Our success depends on our ability to execute our business strategies. Our Power Systems segment is seeking to develop geothermal power plants. Executing this strategy may involve entering into strategic transactions to acquire complementary businesses or technologies. In executing these strategic transactions, we may expend significant financial and management resources and incur other significant costs and expenses. There is no assurance that the execution of any strategic transactions will result in additional revenues or other strategic benefits for our business. The failure to enter into strategic transactions, if doing so would enable us to better execute our business strategies, could also harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We may issue company stock as consideration for acquisitions, joint ventures or other strategic transactions, and the use of common stock as purchase consideration could dilute each of our current stockholder’s interests. In addition, we may obtain debt financing in connection with an acquisition. Any such debt financing could involve restrictive covenants relating to capital-raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. In addition, such debt financing may impair our ability to obtain future additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate or other purposes, and a substantial portion of cash flows, if any, from our operations may be dedicated to interest payments and debt repayment, thereby reducing the funds available to us for other purposes and could make us more vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures. 39 If we are unable to effectively and efficiently maintain our controls and procedures to avoid deficiencies, there could be a material adverse effect on our operations or financial results. As a publicly-traded company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. These requirements may place a strain on our systems and resources. Our management is required to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of each year end, and we are required to disclose management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, including any “material weakness” (within the meaning of Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or PCAOB, Auditing Standard No. 5) in our internal control over financial reporting. On an on-going basis, we are reviewing, documenting and testing our internal control procedures. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight will be required. During the quarter ended September 30, 2010, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting related to footnote disclosure of commitments relating to certain transmission contracts that were not properly disclosed in prior periods. We implemented strengthened controls over our contract processing by the year ended December 31, 2010. However during our evaluation of our system of internal control for the year ended December 31, 2010, we also identified a material weakness. The Company does not have a sufficient number of accounting personnel to adequately segregate and consistently execute the Company’s internal controls. This control deficiency is pervasive in nature and has the potential of impacting all significant accounts and the financial reporting process, as well as the timing and review of the Company’s financial reports. If we fail to adequately address any material weaknesses or deficiencies, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Ultimately, if not corrected, any material weaknesses or deficiencies could prevent us from releasing our financial information and periodic reports in a timely manner, making the required certifications regarding the financial statements, and complying with our other obligations with respect to our consolidated financial statements and internal controls under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Any failure to maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting and provide accurate financial statements may subject us to litigation and could cause the trading price of our common stock to decrease substantially. Inferior controls and procedures could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. We were recently delisted from the New York Stock Exchange and are now quoted on the Over the Counter Bulletin Board. Our quotation on the Over the Counter Bulletin may make it more difficult for our stockholders to sell their stock, cause our stock price to decline or materially harm our business. Because we were unable to maintain our listing on the New York Stock Exchange, our stock is now quoted on the Over the Counter Bulletin Board. As a result, there is no assurance that there will continue to be a market for our common stock. This may make it it more difficult to sell our stock, which may cause our stock price to decline or could materially harm our business. Being quoted on the Over the Counter market may increase the volatility in our stock price and could impair our ability to raise additional capital due to the fact that our common stock is no longer listed on a national securities exchange. We rely on key personnel and the loss of key personnel or the inability to attract, train, and retain key personnel could have a negative effect on our business. We believe our future success will depend to a significant extent on the continued service of our executive officers and other key personnel. Of particular importance to our continued operations are our executive management and technical staff. We do not have key person life insurance for any of our executive officers, technical staff or other employees. If we lose the services of one or more of our current executive officers or key employees, or if one or more of them decide to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us, our business could be harmed. In recent years we have experienced turnover in certain key positions. On August 5, 2009, our Chief Executive Officer resigned due to health reasons. He was replaced by Nick Goodman as Chief Executive Officer on January 11, 2010. On January 13, 2010, our Chief Financial Officer resigned and on March 10, 2010, John Perry began as our new Chief Financial Officer. In November 2010, contemporaneously with the closing of the sale of our Transportation & Industrial segment, Richard D. Clayton, our General Counsel, and Kraig T. Higginson, our Executive Chairman, resigned their executive positions with the Company and commenced employment with VIA Motors, Inc. Mr. Higginson later resigned as member of the Board of Directors on February 11, 2011. As of March 31, 2011, Mr. Clayton and Mr. Higginson have not been replaced. Our future success also depends on our ability to attract, train, retain and motivate highly skilled technical and administrative personnel. Since we have limited resources to attract qualified personnel, we may not be successful in recruiting, training, and retaining personnel in the future, which would impair our ability to maintain and grow our business. 40 Our limited cash resources have in the past required us to rely heavily on equity compensation to hire and retain key personnel, and we expect this to continue in the future. This practice may result in significant non-cash compensation expenses and dilution to our stockholders. We may record impairment charges which would adversely impact our results of operations. We review our intangible assets and long-lived assets for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of these assets may not be recoverable as required by generally accepted accounting principles. One potential indicator of impairment is whether our fair value, as measured by our market capitalization, has remained below our net book value for a significant period of time. Whether our market capitalization triggers an impairment charge in any future period will depend on the underlying reasons for the decline in stock price, the significance of the decline, and the length of time the stock price has been trading at such prices. In the event that we determine in a future period that impairment exists for any reason, we would record an impairment charge in the period such determination is made, which would adversely impact our financial position and results of operations. The large number of shares eligible for public sale could cause our stock price to decline. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of the resale of shares of common stock that were previously restricted under Rule 144. In addition, if our officers, directors or employees sell previously restricted shares for tax, estate planning, portfolio management or other purposes, such sales could be viewed negatively by investors and put downward pressure on our stock price. Approximately 95.5 million shares were free of restrictive legend as of December 31, 2010, up from approximately 67.2 million as of December 31, 2009. Additionally, as we reported on a current report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on March 17, 2011, the holders of our Preferred Stock and Preferred Warrants, surrendered those securities to us in exchange for the issuance to them of 51.7 million shares of our common stock (the “Settlement Shares”) and a warrant to purchase up to 26.6 million shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $0.18612 per share (the “Warrant Shares”). The Settlement Shares and the Warrant Shares were registered under our Registration Statement on Form S-3. The sales of such large amount of shares, or the perception that such sales could occur, may cause our stock price to decline. 41 Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in United States generally accepted accounting principles. United States generally accepted accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC, and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our financial results. For example, prior to January 1, 2009, we were required to record certain warrants with exercise price reset features as equity, if the warrants were considered to be indexed to our own stock. However, for periods after January 1, 2009, we are required to record certain warrants with exercise price reset features as derivative liabilities and record the quarterly changes in fair market value as gains or losses in the financial statements. A significant increase in the fair value of the warrants liability can result in a significant loss recorded during the corresponding period in the financial statements. We have never declared or paid dividends on our common stock and we do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Our business requires significant funding, and we currently invest more in project development than we earn from operating our projects and sales of our technology. In addition, the agreements governing our debt and the terms of our Preferred Stock restrict our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. Therefore, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently plan to invest all available funds and future earnings in the development and growth of our business. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be the sole source of potential gain for our common stockholders in the foreseeable future. ITEM IB. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 