Item 1A. Risk Factors Relating to Our Business We face significant technical challenges in completing the development of the Smart Energy Matrix™. We may fail to develop our 25kWh generation flywheel system, which is a critical requirement for the development of the Smart Energy Matrix™ and, even if we are able to develop the 25kWh system, we may fail to develop the Smart Energy Matrix™. Although we have successfully developed three high-energy flywheel systems (the 2kWh and 6kWh for telecom and the 6kWh for the grid) that had similar technical challenges, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop the 25kWh system. The successful development of our new Smart Energy 25 flywheel system, which will be used in the Smart Energy Matrix™, involves significant technological and cost challenges, including: · Timely development of cost-effective designs for key components of the Smart Energy Matrix™ such as the rim, motor, power electronics, magnetic bearing system and the master controller software · Prototype test malfunctions could result in damage to our other equipment and test facility, re-engineering costs and production delays · Development and production delays and/or cost increases may occur if we are unable to establish multiple source suppliers for key components to meet our engineering requirements, cost objectives and development and production schedules and we do not have contracts with all of these suppliers · Development of cost-effective designs on schedule that will meet system performance requirements such as: · A rotor-cooling scheme to avoid overheating during operation · Cost-effective bearings to ensure acceptable vibration levels at all speeds; and · A touchdown bearing system to stabilize the rotor during abnormal conditions such as an earthquake · Ramping up and maintaining production rates · Controlling the quality and cost of goods we buy from key suppliers; and · Potential delays in our schedule and/or cost increases that could result if we are unable to extend the lease on our current facility or obtain a suitable, timely lease on another facility. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in meeting these challenges. In addition, even if we are able to develop the new Smart Energy 25 flywheel system, we plan to integrate multiple Smart Energy 25 flywheels into a common building to produce the Smart Energy Matrix™. This effort will pose significant technological and cost challenges including: · Meeting the technical requirements for interconnection to the utility grid; and · Developing a communication and control system adequate to meet the performance standards of grid managers. Our stock may be removed from The Nasdaq Capital Market System. On March 27, 2007 we received a letter from the Nasdaq Capital Market dated March 27, 2007 indicating that our common stock has not met the $1.00 minimum bid price requirement for continued listing for the past 30 days and that our common stock is, therefore, subject to delisting from the Nasdaq Capital Market, pursuant to Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(4). Therefore in accordance with Marketplace Rule 4310(c) (8) (D), we will be provided 180 calendar days, or until September 24, 2007, to 10 regain compliance. To attain compliance, our common stock must close at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of ten consecutive days before September 24, 2007. In the event that our stock does not meet this requirement, but meets the requirements for initial inclusion on the Nasdaq Capital Market as set forth in Marketplace Rule 4310(c), we may be granted an additional 180 calendar day period to regain compliance. If we have not met the compliance criteria by September 24, 2007 and we are not eligible for an additional compliance period, Nasdaq will provide written notice that our stock will be delisted. There can be no assurance that we will continue to meet the Nasdaq Capital Market’s listing requirements and therefore may lose our eligibility for quotation on the Nasdaq Capital Market. Should our stock lose its eligibility to be quoted on the Nasdaq Capital Market, we will seek to have our stock quoted on the OTCBB. While we know of no reason that our stock will not be accepted for quotation on OTCBB, we cannot guarantee that acceptance. If our stock is not accepted for listing on the OTCBB, we will be traded on the pink sheets. Our ability to complete development of our Smart Energy Matrix™ will require substantial funds. Our stockholders may be adversely affected if we issue debt securities or additional equity securities to obtain financing. We will require substantial funds to conduct research and development activities, market our products and services, and increase our revenues. We anticipate that such funds will be obtained from external sources and intend to seek additional equity or debt to fund future operations. Although approximately $10 million was raised in February 2007, we estimate that we will need to raise an additional $20 million during the remainder of 2007 in order to complete development of the Smart Energy Matrix™ flywheel system, build, operate and receive fees for frequency regulation services and have sufficient working capital to continue to execute our business plan. Our actual capital requirements will depend on many factors. The additional funding we require may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. Such additional funding may only be available on terms that may, for example, cause substantial dilution to common stockholders, and/or have liquidation preferences and/or pre-emptive rights. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt securities or additional equity securities, existing stockholders may be adversely affected because new investors may have rights superior to current stockholders and current stockholders may be diluted. If we do not succeed in raising additional funds we will be unable to complete planned development of our products and services. In addition, we could be forced to take unattractive steps, such as discontinuing product development, limiting the services offered, reducing or foregoing sales and marketing efforts and attractive business opportunities, or discontinuing operations entirely. We expect that it will be several years before we will recognize significant revenues from the products we intend to offer and the services we intend to provide. A large portion of our expenses are fixed, including expenses related to facilities, equipment and key personnel. In addition, we expect to spend significant amounts to fund product development based on our core technologies. We also expect to incur substantial expenses to manufacture our Smart Energy Matrix™ product in the future. As a result, operating expenses may increase significantly over the next several years and, consequently, we will need to generate substantial commercial revenue to achieve profitability. Even we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a consistent basis. 11 We intend to bring our frequency regulation services to market through participation in the energy auction markets, where on a national basis the amount of frequency regulation required is typically one percent of all power produced. If changes in this percentage occur due to regulatory modifications and are not offset by a proportionate increase in pricing for frequency regulation, our business plan could be adversely affected. The regulatory landscape is in constant flux, and we are aware that a North American Electric Reliability Council (NERC) subcommittee is in the process of developing a new NERC standard that may reduce the amount of frequency regulation required by lowering the ratio of frequency regulation to power generated. There is not yet a consensus on the potential changes to the standard. The new NERC standard may not be adopted as currently proposed, and even if adopted, regional grid operators have the unilateral option under FERC rules to adhere to regional frequency regulation standards that are not less rigorous, and may in fact be more rigorous, than the proposed new standard Even if a new standard is passed, the belief by such ISOs and other powerful utility stakeholders that such changes could create possible negative impacts on overall grid reliability make it likely that more rigorous standards will continue to be the rule in at least some areas, including California and New England. However, if adopted, the proposed changes potentially could be harmful to us by: a) reducing the amount of frequency regulation required by Independent System Operators in such a way as to reduce the total size of the US frequency regulation market, b) lowering the price of frequency regulation as a consequence of any potential lower demand that might result from a change in regulatory standards, and c) increasing our cost of providing the service. Any combination of these things could adversely impact our ability to access the markets for frequency regulation or to do so on a profitable or sustainable basis. Other market-expanding developments may partially counterbalance the uncertainty posed by the above possible changes in the NERC standard. For example, efforts by some states to increase the amount of renewable energy that is produced for the grid from wind and solar power may expand the market for frequency regulation services. From conversations with grid operators, we believe that the variable changes in energy output caused by natural and constant changes in wind speed and cloud cover will require increased frequency regulation to balance this variability. Our revenue and sales depend upon the achievement of the product development and commercialization milestones set forth in our contracts with third parties. Our future revenues will result from similar milestones related to government contracts and from our commercial applications. These revenues will depend on our ability to deliver flywheel systems with certain performance and dependability attributes. The majority of our revenue is currently derived from contracts with governmental entities in which payments to us are based primarily on achieving certain product development and commercialization milestones as set forth in those contracts. We expect that our future revenue from government sources will similarly be milestone-driven. On commercial applications for our flywheel systems, our ability to achieve revenues will be dependent on our ability to complete development of our systems, expand our manufacturing capabilities, and obtain sufficient funds to deploy these systems. It is uncertain whether and to what degree we will be able to meet these goals in the future. To the extent we do not meet such goals, we expect our revenue to be negatively impacted. Our business plan includes the design, development, construction, financing and operation of several frequency regulation power facilities that incorporate our Smart Energy Matrix™ technology in order to provide frequency regulation services. We have no prior experience doing this. Should we fail in any material aspect of these tasks, it is unlikely that we will recognize significant revenue under our current business model. Our business plan calls for the design, development, construction, financing and operation of one or more commercial-level frequency regulation power plants that incorporate our Smart Energy Matrix™ technology. However, we have no experience with such projects at a commercial level, although we have designed, developed, constructed and installed two one-tenth scale demonstration units at existing utility 12 sites on the grid and have operated or are now operating them in demonstration and testing mode. However, we have never done these things commercially, nor ever obtained project financing (although we have experience in equity transactions). We expect that executing these tasks on a commercial level will be complex and challenging and we may not be successful. If we are not successful, then we will not achieve the revenues planned in our business model. We have a history of losses and anticipate future losses and we will have limited revenues in the near term. Unless we raise additional capital to operate our business, we may not be able to continue as a going concern. Even with the cash raised in February 2007, our cash balances are sufficient to fund operations only into approximately the fourth quarter of 2007. We have incurred significant losses from operations since our inception. As shown in our consolidated financial statements, we incurred significant losses from operations of approximately $12,682,000, $9,448,000 and $9,049,000 and operating cash decreases of approximately $8,482,000, $8,923,000 and $8,260,000, during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We expect to have positive EBITDA and be cash flow positive by 2010; however, to be successful we will need to raise additional capital in 2007 and 2008. In the event that we are not successful in raising equity or the timing of bringing in additional cash is delayed, we may not be successful. We had approximately $5.3 million in cash and cash equivalents on hand at December 31, 2006. Approximately $10 million of additional equity funding was raised in February 2007. Based on our current cash usage rates and additional expenditures expected in support of our business plan, we estimate that we have adequate cash to fund operations only into the fourth quarter of 2007. We are focused on further development of the Smart Energy Matrix™ to provide frequency regulation services, but this product will not generate revenues in the near term. We expect future revenues to come from a combination of the sale of services related to the Smart Energy Matrix™ and possible sales of Smart Energy 25 flywheel units. Other than revenue related to our research and development contracts in the amount of $2.2 million, we have had no revenues to date from our Smart Energy Matrix™. The timing of future revenues is uncertain. Miller Wachman, LLP, our independent auditors, have included an explanatory paragraph related to a going concern uncertainty in their audit report on our consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, which identifies our recurring losses and negative cash flows and raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our financial statements have been prepared on the basis of a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. We have not made any adjustments to our financial statements as a result of the going concern uncertainty. If we cannot continue as a going concern, we may have to liquidate our assets and may receive significantly less than the values at which they are carried on our financial statements. Any shortfall in the proceeds from the liquidation of our assets would directly reduce the amounts that holders of our common stock could receive in liquidation. Although the market for frequency regulation services is large and growing, we have not demonstrated an ability to sell into that market. We intend to provide frequency regulation services using our Smart Energy Matrix™ in the spot or auction markets of regional grid operators, such as PJM Interconnection. In order to bid in these markets, one must be qualified to do so. We expect to receive the necessary approvals, but there is no assurance we will be successful. 13 Even if we successfully qualify to participate in the auction markets, if the structure of these markets changes due to regulatory modifications, for example, our business plan could be adversely affected. The central financial attraction for us in the auction market is that we are able to bid electronically into each auction. These auctions yield the same sales price for all successful bidders. If the auction market changes, we may be required to change our business plan and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in doing so. Increases or decreases in purchase prices or availability of carbon fiber or other materials and commodities may affect our ability to achieve profitability. We use carbon fiber in the manufacture of our flywheel systems. Other applications that require carbon fiber have substantially increased in the last few years. In response to this increased demand, suppliers are adding capacity but shortages and/or price fluctuations may affect our ability to manufacture our flywheel systems in a timely way and at a reasonable cost. Fluctuations in energy prices may have a material impact on the pricing of frequency regulation services and therefore the profitability of our flywheel systems. The market pricing for frequency regulation services tends to follow the pricing for energy. In the event of any substantial future erosion in the price of energy, frequency regulation prices could be adversely affected. New sources of energy including the commissioning of nuclear power plants and other technologies could adversely affect the demand for frequency regulation services. Potential expansion in the use of nuclear power or other new energy supply technologies could change the supply and demand for energy and may impact frequency regulation pricing. Failure to protect our intellectual property could impair our competitive position. Although we are unaware of any challenges to our intellectual property, we cannot provide assurance that we have or will be able to maintain a significant proprietary position on the basic technologies used in our flywheel systems. Our ability to compete effectively against alternative technologies will be affected by our ability to protect proprietary technology, systems designs and manufacturing processes. We do not know whether any of our pending or future patent applications under which we have rights will issue, or, in the case of patents issued or to be issued, that the claims allowed are or will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology or processes from competitors. Even if all of our patent applications are issued and are sufficiently broad, they may be challenged or invalidated. We could incur substantial costs in prosecuting or defending patent infringement suits, and such suits would divert funds and resources that could be used in our business. We do not know whether we have been or will be completely successful in safeguarding and maintaining our proprietary rights. Further, our competitors or others may independently develop or patent technologies or processes that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours. If we are found to be infringing on third-party patents, we do not know whether we will be able to obtain licenses to use such patents on acceptable terms, if at all. Failure to obtain needed licenses could delay or prevent the development, manufacture or sale of our systems. We rely, in part, on contractual provisions to protect trade secrets and proprietary knowledge. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Our trade secrets may also be known without breach of such agreements or may be independently developed by competitors or others. Our inability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology and processes could allow competitors or others to limit or eliminate any competitive advantages we may have. 14 Government regulation may impair our ability to market our products. Government regulation of our products, whether at the federal, state or local level, including any change in regulations or tariffs, product buy downs or tax rebates relating to purchase and installation of our products, may increase the cost and price of our systems, and may have a negative impact on our revenue and profitability. We cannot provide assurance that our products will not be subject to existing or future federal and state regulations governing traditional electric utilities and other regulated entities. We expect that our products and their installation will be subject to oversight and regulation at the local level in accordance with state and local ordinances relating to building codes, safety and related matters. We do not know the extent to which any existing or new regulations may impact our ability to distribute, install and service our products. Once our products reach the commercialization stage, federal, state or local government entities may seek to impose regulations. The exercise of options and warrants and other issuances of shares will likely have a dilutive effect on our stock price. As of December 31, 2006, there were outstanding options to purchase an aggregate of 6,546,886 shares of our common stock at prices ranging from $0.255 per share to $9.31 per share, of which options to purchase 5,672,000 shares were exercisable as of such date. As of December 31, 2006, there were outstanding warrants to purchase 5,543,860 shares of our common stock, all of which were exercisable as of December 31, 2006. During February 2007, we issued approximately 11.8 million shares of common stock and warrants to purchase 5.9 million shares at an exercise price of $1.33 per share. The exercise of options and warrants at prices below the market price of our common stock could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Additional dilution may result from the issuance of shares of our capital stock in connection with collaborations or manufacturing arrangements or in connection with other financing efforts. Our financial performance could be adversely affected if we are unable to retain or attract key technical personnel. Our future success also depends to a large degree on the technical skills of our engineering staff and our ability to attract key technical personnel. Competition for skilled technical professionals is intense and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining the talent necessary to design, develop and manufacture our flywheel products. Competitors in the frequency regulation market include established utilities and independent service providers with far greater resources than we have. The frequency regulation services market is being served by well-known utilities and independent service providers that use conventional generators. We will be competing with established generators that have far greater resources than we do. We have anti-takeover defenses that could delay or prevent an acquisition and changes in control that could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws, Rights Agreement and Delaware law may have the effect of deterring unsolicited takeovers or delaying or preventing changes in control of management, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. In addition, these provisions may limit the ability of stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interest. Our certificate of incorporation permits our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval upon such terms as the board of directors may determine. The rights of the holders 15 of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding common stock. Although we have no present intention of issuing any additional preferred stock, an issuance of a substantial number of preferred shares could adversely affect the price of our common stock. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated by-laws provide that: · Our directors may only be removed for cause by a majority of the outstanding capital stock entitled to vote in the election of directors · Our stockholders do not have the power to call special meetings of stockholders; and · The provisions relating to the classified board, removal of directors and calling of special stockholders meetings may only be amended by a 662¤3% vote of the outstanding shares of common stock, voting together as a single class. These provisions make it more difficult for our stockholders to change the composition of the board of directors and approve transactions they may deem to be in their best interests that are not approved by the board of directors. Pursuant to a Rights Agreement, we issued rights as a dividend on common stock on October 7, 2002, each of which entitles the holder to purchase 1/100th of a share of newly issued preferred stock for $22.50 in the event that any person not approved by the board of directors acquires more than 15% (35% in the case of one large shareholder, Perseus Capital, L.L.C. and its affiliates, that at that time owned more than 15%) of Beacon’s outstanding common stock, or in the event of an acquisition by another company, $22.50 worth of the common stock of the other company at half its market value (in each case the rights held by the acquiring person are not exercisable and become void). Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 