Item 1A Risk Factors Item 1 B Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2 Properties Item 3 Legal Proceedings Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders Part II Item 5 Market for Our Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6 Selected Financial Data Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A Controls and Procedures Item 9B Other Information Part III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance Item 11 Executive Compensation Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services Part IV Item 15 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules Signatures In this Annual Report on Form 10-K the terms "Crown Media Holdings" or the “Company,” refer to Crown Media Holdings, Inc. and, unless the context requires otherwise, subsidiaries of Crown Media Holdings that operate or have operated our businesses, including Crown Media United States, LLC ("Crown Media United States"). The term "common stock" refers to our Class A common stock and Class B common stock, unless the context requires otherwise. The name Hallmark and other product or service names are trademarks or registered trademarks of their owners. PART I ITEM 1. Business Company Overview We own and operate pay television channels (the “Channels”), known as the Hallmark Channel, the Hallmark Movie Channel and the Hallmark Movie Channel HD, each of which is dedicated to high-quality entertainment programming for adults and families. The Hallmark Channel is a 24-hour television destination for family-friendly programming and a leader in the production of original movies. The Hallmark Movie Channel is a 24-hour cable network dedicated to offering viewers a collection of movies appropriate for the entire family, and the Hallmark Movie Channel HD, which was launched in April 2008, is simulcast alongside the Hallmark Movie Channel. The Hallmark Movie Channel offers a mix of Hallmark Channel original movies, classical theatrical films, and Hallmark Hall of Fame presentations. Our Channels are distributed in the United States of America and its territories and possessions, including Puerto Rico. The Channels offer compelling stories, masterfully written, directed and produced with talented and recognized actors. We believe that we have established these Channels as destinations for viewers seeking high-quality entertainment for adults and families, and as attractive outlets for advertisers seeking to target these viewers. We have distribution agreements with leading pay television distributors. The following table shows our Channels’ programming sources, selected pay television distributors and the total number of subscribers as of December 31, 2009. Hallmark Channel Hallmark Movie Channel Programming Sources • Original Productions • Original Productions • Other third-party sources • Other third-party sources • Hallmark Hall of Fame • Hallmark Hall of Fame Selected Pay • AT&T (U-verse) • AT&T (U-verse) Television • Cablevision • Cablevision Distributors • Charter • Charter • Comcast • Comcast • Cox • Cox • DIRECTV • Dish Network • Dish Network • NCTC • NCTC • Mediacom • Mediacom • Time Warner • Time Warner • Verizon Communication (FiOS) • Verizon Communication (FiOS) Total Subscribers 88.3 million (1) 29.1 million (2) (1) Source: Nielsen Code and The Nielsen Public U.E. December 2009. (2) Source: Internal reports. We view a “subscriber” as a household that receives, on a full or part-time basis, a channel on a program tier of a distributor. We determine our Hallmark Channel subscribers from subscriber numbers reported by Nielsen Media Research. Subscribers include both viewers who pay a monthly fee for the tier programming and so-called “promotional” subscribers who are given free access to the tier by the distributor for a limited time. Programming acquired from third parties is an important component of our Channels as we continually develop and refine our programming strategy. This programming includes original movies produced by a variety of experienced television production companies and “off network” television series. Our production agreements cover one specific movie or a package of several movies. Typically under these agreements, our Channels have the right to exhibit the movies for an initial window of 3 to 5 years and have the right to extend the term for an additional 3 years, which we exercise based on the performance of the movies in their initial window. With respect to television series which we acquire from third parties, we typically have the right to exhibit the series for a window of 3 to 5 years. We currently distribute (a) the Hallmark Channel through approximately 5,450 cable, satellite and other pay television distribution systems and (b) the Hallmark Movie Channel through approximately 800 such systems. As of the end of 2009, we had agreements with AT&T Inc. (U-verse), Cablevision, Charter, Comcast, Cox, DirecTV, Dish Network, Mediacom, the National Cable Television Cooperative, Time Warner, Verizon Communication (FiOS), and many other pay television distributors, for the distribution of the Hallmark Channel. We also have agreements with AT&T Inc. (U-verse), Cablevision, Charter, Comcast, Cox, Dish Network, DirecTV, National Cable Televisions Cooperative (“NCTC”), Time Warner, Verizon Communications (FiOS) and other select distributors, which give these distributors the right to distribute the Hallmark Movie Channel and the Hallmark Movie Channel HD. In addition, we have entered into agreements with several telephone companies that have started to furnish video programming to consumers, including the National Rural Telecommunications Cooperative and AT&T. Five of our distributors each accounted for more than 10%, and together accounted for a total of 76%, of our consolidated subscriber revenue for the year ended December 31, 2009. Three of our distributors each accounted for approximately 15% or more of our consolidated subscribers for the year ended December 31, 2009, and together accounted for 61% of our consolidated subscribers on that date. We license the trademark “Hallmark” for use on our Channels pursuant to certain trademark license agreements with a subsidiary of Hallmark Cards, Incorporated. We believe that the use of this trademark is extremely important for our Channels due to the substantial name recognition and favorable characteristics associated with the name in the United States. For further information concerning these trademark license agreements, see Part III – Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions – Hallmark Trademark License Agreements. During 2009, domestic channel operations comprised the Company’s sole operating segment. Recent Developments Recapitalization of the Company As previously disclosed, the Company’s Board of Directors formed a Special Committee of three independent directors to review and consider a May 28, 2009 proposal from H C Crown Corp. (“HCC”) regarding a recapitalization of the amounts owed by the Company to HCC and its affiliates. HCC is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Hallmark Cards, Incorporated (“Hallmark Cards”). On February 9, 2010, the Special Committee of the Board and HCC approved and executed a Recapitalization Term Sheet, representing non-binding terms of recapitalization transactions for the Company. On February 26, 2010, the Company entered into the Master Recapitalization Agreement with Hallmark Cards, HCC and related entities that provides for the recapitalization transactions and the agreements described below (the “Recapitalization”). The summary of the terms of the Recapitalization transactions is qualified entirely by reference to the agreements to which each summary description relates, each of which we have filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The Recapitalization transactions include, among other things, $315.0 million principal amount of the HCC Debt (as defined below) being restructured into new debt instruments, $185.0 million principal amount of the HCC Debt being converted into convertible preferred stock of the Company, Class B Common Stock being converted into Class A Common Stock with Class A Common Stock becoming the only authorized and outstanding common stock of the Company (the “Class A Common Stock”), and the balance of the HCC Debt being converted into shares of Class A Common Stock. Upon execution of the Master Recapitalization Agreement, the automatic termination of the waiver under the existing Amended and Restated Waiver and Standby Purchase Agreement (the “Waiver Agreement”) with Hallmark Cards and HCC was extended until August 31, 2010; the Waiver Agreement defers payment dates on HCC Debt (excluding accounts payable). Other aspects of the Recapitalization concern a Credit Agreement for the new debt, an amendment to the Tax Sharing Agreement with Hallmark Cards, a registration rights agreement, mergers of two intermediate holding companies with the Company, efforts to extend or replace the Company’s revolving line of credit, Hallmark Cards’ willingness to guarantee $30.0 million of a revolving line of credit, a standstill agreement of Hallmark entities pursuant to which such entities agree not to acquire, through December 31, 2013, additional shares of Class A Common Stock of the Company, subject to certain exceptions, and agree to certain restrictions on their ability to sell or transfer shares of Class A Common Stock of the Company until December 31, 2013 and, subject to lesser restrictions, until December 31, 2020. Each of the Company (subject to approval by the Special Committee) and HCC has the right to terminate the Master Recapitalization Agreement at any time after the later of (x) June 30, 2010 and (y) 45 days following receipt of notice that the information statement filed by the Company will not be reviewed by the SEC or that the SEC staff has no further comments thereon, if the Recapitalization has not been consummated prior to that date. Even if there were such a termination, the Waiver Agreement will continue to provide that the automatic termination date of the waiver will extend to August 31, 2010. The closing of the Recapitalization is subject to a number of conditions, including, among other things, (a) representations and warranties of the Company being accurate, (b) obtaining a one-year revolving credit agreement mentioned below, (c) there being no judgment or order which prohibits the consummation of the Recapitalization and (d) Hallmark Cards not having delivered a written notice to the Company certifying that Hallmark Cards in its sole discretion (but only after consultation with outside legal counsel) shall have determined that the status of any pending or threatened litigation or regulatory proceeding involving the Company or its subsidiaries in connection with the Recapitalization is unsatisfactory to Hallmark Cards. See Note 16 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding a pending lawsuit on the Recapitalization in which the plaintiff objects to the Recapitalization. From the date of the Master Recapitalization Agreement to the Closing Date, the Company will be subject to various affirmative covenants (including covenants to operate in the ordinary course of business and to keep available the services of its officers and employees and preserve the present relationships with persons doing business with it) as well as various negative covenants (including, among others, with respect to sales, leases or transfers outside the ordinary course of business and acquisitions of material assets other than in accordance with past practices). If the Recapitalization is consummated, the Hallmark parties will own, excluding the shares of Class A Common Stock that would be received upon conversion of the preferred stock, at least 90.1% of the sum of the outstanding common stock of the Company and shares subject to outstanding options (the outstanding options are for 87,238 shares on the date hereof). Certain aspects of the Recapitalization require stockholder approval. Hallmark Entertainment Holdings, Inc. (“HEH”) and certain Hallmark Cards affiliates as direct or indirect owners of a more than a majority of the Company’s voting stock have stated in the Master Recapitalization Agreement their written consents as stockholders to these matters in lieu of holding a meeting of the Company’s stockholders. No vote of other stockholders will be requested or required. The closing of the Recapitalization cannot occur until 20 calendar days after an information statement required by regulations of the SEC is sent to the stockholders of the Company, or if such information statement is furnished by sending a Notice of Internet Availability, until 40 calendar days after such notice is sent to the stockholders of the Company. The Master Recapitalization Agreement requires that the Company use best efforts to prepare and file the information statement with the SEC as promptly as is reasonably practicable (but not later than March 20, 2010). General In the Recapitalization: · $315.0 million principal amount of the HCC Debt will be restructured into new debt instruments on the terms summarized below (the “New Debt”), $185.0 million principal amount of the HCC Debt will be converted into an equal amount of convertible preferred stock of the Company on the terms summarized below (the “Convertible Preferred Stock”), and the balance of the HCC Debt as of the closing of the Recapitalization (the “Closing Date”) will be converted into shares of Class A Common Stock at the Conversion Price (as described below). As a result of the Recapitalization, immediately following the closing of the Recapitalization transactions, all of the HCC Debt, except to the extent converted and continued as New Debt, will be extinguished and discharged. o “HCC Debt” means (i) the aggregate principal amount of all indebtedness owed to Hallmark Cards, HCC and their controlled affiliates, including accrued and unpaid interest thereon through the Closing Date, but excluding accrued but unpaid interest with respect to the 2001 Note, the 2005 Note and the 2006 Note; (b) all accounts payable and open intercompany accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries owed to HCC and Hallmark Cards and their controlled affiliates (other than the Company and its subsidiaries); and (c) any amounts due to Hallmark Cards or its affiliates under the Tax Sharing Agreement (as defined below) through December 31, 2009; provided that for the avoidance of doubt the following shall not constitute HCC Debt: (i) Reimbursement Obligations (as defined in the Master Recapitalization Agreement), (ii) Ordinary Course of Business Obligations (as defined in the Master Recapitalization Agreement), and (iii) any amounts due to Hallmark Cards or its affiliates under the Tax Sharing Agreement accruing on or after January 1, 2010. “2001 Note” means the Promissory Note, dated as of December 14, 2001, of the Company in the original principal amount of $75.0 million payable to HCC; “2005 Note” means the Promissory Note, dated as of October 1, 2005, of a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company in the original principal amount of $132,785,424 payable to HCC; and “2006 Note” means the Promissory Note, dated as of March 21, 2006, of the Company in the original principal amount of $70,414,087.87 payable to HCC. o “Conversion Price” means the amount equal to (x) the quantity of (i) the total HCC Debt as of the Date of Determination, less (ii) $500 million, divided by (y) the Conversion Price Shares. “Conversion Price Shares” means a notional number of shares of Class A Common Stock which, when combined with the number of shares of Class A Common Stock directly or indirectly owned by Hallmark Cards as of the Date of Determination (for purposes of such calculation (x) including with respect to shares of Class A Common Stock owned directly by Hallmark Entertainment Investments Co. (“HEIC”) only HEH’s pro rata portion of the Class A Common Stock owned by HEIC, and (y) excluding the shares of Class A Common Stock that will be receivable by HCC upon conversion of the Convertible Preferred Stock), will equal 90.1% of the sum of (i) all outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock on the Date of Determination prior to the Closing Date, (ii) the Conversion Price Shares and (iii) all shares potentially issuable upon exercise of all outstanding options as of the Date of Determination. “Date of Determination” means the Closing Date, provided that if the Closing Date occurs on or after March 31, 2010, the “Date of Determination” will be deemed to be March 31, 2010. · The terms of the New Debt as set forth in the Credit Agreement will include without limitation the following: o Maturity: December 31, 2013. o Tranches: § Term A Loan of $200 million will be cash-pay in terms of interest and will bear interest at the rate of 9.5% per annum through December 31, 2011, increasing to 12% on and after January 1, 2012 through December 31, 2013. § Term B Loan of $115 million will be payable-in-kind, by adding interest to the principal (“PIK”), through December 31, 2010 and will become cash-pay for the quarterly period beginning on January 1, 2011 and for all quarterly periods thereafter. The interest rate will be 11.5% through December 31, 2011, increasing to 14% on and after January 1, 2012 and continuing through December 31, 2013. o PIK Toggle: The Company will have the option to PIK up to three quarterly cash payments in the aggregate for the Term A Loan and the Term B Loan. For the avoidance of doubt, contractual PIK payments under the Term B Loan will not reduce the number of optional PIK payments available to the Company, and if the Company opts to PIK both the Term A Loan and the Term B Loan cash payments in a single quarter then that will count as two of the Company’s three quarterly PIK options. o Prepayment: The New Debt will be pre-payable at any time at par plus accrued interest. o Mandatory Prepayments: 100% of net cash proceeds from asset sales or other dispositions, except to the extent such net cash proceeds are reinvested in productive assets of a kind then used or usable in the business of the Company or its subsidiaries within 180 days of the sale or other disposition; 100% of net cash proceeds from equity issuances; 100% of net cash proceeds from debt issuances (exclusive of the Revolver as described below); 75% of Excess Cash Flow (as defined in the New Debt agreements); and upon the sale of assets in advance of a condemnation proceeding, or following the occurrence of a casualty or condemnation for which the Company or its subsidiaries have received proceeds, after such proceeds have been used to replace the subject assets. Prepayments must be applied in the following order (i) first to PIK interest on the Term A Loan (ii) then to principal on the Term A Loan (iii) then to PIK interest on the Term B Loan, and (iv) finally to principal on the Term B Loan. o Change in Control: The principal and interest on the New Debt will become immediately due and payable upon a change in control (as defined in the Credit Agreement) arising from (i) a Premium Transaction (as described below) or (ii) a transaction approved by a special committee of the Company's Board of Directors. o Collateral: An existing lien on substantially all of the Company’s assets will be modified so it secures obligations under the Credit Agreement. It is contemplated that this security interest will be subordinate to the lender under the bank revolving credit facility. o NICC Reserve Account: The Company is required to redeem the preferred interest held by a wholly-owned subsidiary of National Interfaith Cable Coalition (“NICC”) in Crown Media United States for $25.0 million by December 31, 2010. Prior to closing of the Credit Agreement, the Company will establish with a financial institution a NICC Reserve Account in the Company's name and deposit in that account amounts which the Company chooses as a sinking fund for the mandatory redemption of that preferred interest. The funds in the NICC Reserve Account are to be used to make any scheduled payments on the NICC preferred interest and at no time is the amount to exceed $25.0 million. o Covenants: Negative covenants include limitations on debt incurrence; dividends; liens; capital expenditures; investments; restricted payments; sale/leaseback transactions; creation of subsidiaries; changes in business conducted; execution or amendment of material agreements in such a way as could be reasonably be expected to be materially disadvantageous to the Hallmark lenders; transactions with affiliates; and dispositions of property. Financial covenants include: The Company will not permit its Cash Interest Coverage Ratio as the end of any fiscal quarter to be less than 2.0:1.0. “Cash Interest Coverage Ratio” is defined as the ratio of (a) EBITDA to (b) the sum of the Term A Loan and the Term B Loan cash interest expense (excluding PIK interest), in each case for a Measurement Period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ending on the date of determination, adjusted pro rata for the three full quarters following the Closing Date. “EBITDA” means for any period (x) Consolidated Net Income plus (y) to the extent Consolidated Net Income was reduced by such items: (i) provision for income taxes during such period; (ii) interest expense deducted in computing Consolidated Net Income; (iii) total depreciation expense and total amortization expense (other than amortization of capitalized film costs); (iv) any extraordinary, unusual or non-recurring expenses or losses, whether or not included as a separate item in the statement of such Consolidated Net Income for such period (including, but not limited to losses on sales of assets outside of the ordinary course of business, impairment of assets, restructuring charges, transactions costs of the Recapitalization payable by the Company and write-offs of deferred costs for such period); (v) any other non-cash charges (other than write-offs or write-downs during such period of inventory, accounts receivable or any other current assets or liabilities in the ordinary course of business); minus (z)(i) any extraordinary, unusual or non-recurring income or gains (including, whether or not otherwise included as a separate item in the statement of such Consolidated Net Income for such period, gains on sale of assets outside of the ordinary course of business) for such period and (ii) any other non-cash income items increasing Consolidated Net Income for such period, all as determined for such period in conformity with GAAP. The credit agreement for the Term A Loan and Term B Loan includes cross defaults if there is a default by the Company on any indebtedness for borrowed money and similar obligations in excess of $1,000,000 or if there is a failure to pay the redemption amount of $25.0 million on the preferred interest held by the NICC subsidiary in Crown Media United States or if there is demand on the Hallmark guarantee on the Revolver. · The terms of the Convertible Preferred Stock will include without limitation the following: o Liquidation preference: In the event of any liquidation or winding up of the Company, the holders of the Convertible Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive, in preference to the holders of the common stock of the Company, an amount equal to the greater of (x) $1,000 per share plus accrued but unpaid dividends thereon, or (y) that amount that would be received by such holders on an “as converted” basis (the “Liquidation Preference”). A consolidation, merger, reorganization or other form of acquisition of the Company or a sale of all or substantially all of its assets will be deemed to be a liquidation or winding up for purposes of the liquidation preference. o Dividends: No dividends will accrue or be payable from the date of issue of the Convertible Preferred Stock through December 31, 2010; cumulative PIK dividends will accrue from and after January 1, 2011 through December 31, 2011 at a rate per annum of 14%; cumulative PIK dividends will accrue from and after January 1, 2012 through December 31, 2014 at a rate per annum of 16%; and cumulative cash-pay dividends will accrue for all periods thereafter at a rate per annum of 16%, in each case payable solely out of lawfully available surplus. The Convertible Preferred Stock will participate with the common stock of the Company as to dividends on an “as converted” basis. The Company may elect to pay accumulated PIK dividends in cash at any time, subject to lawfully available surplus. o Optional Conversion: At the option of the holder, each share of Convertible Preferred Stock becomes and remains convertible at the earlier of December 31, 2013, or upon a payment or refinancing by the Company of all or substantially all of the New Debt, into such number of shares of common stock of the Company as is determined by dividing the Liquidation Preference of $1,000 plus accrued and unpaid dividends with respect to such shares of Convertible Preferred Stock by the conversion price, with anti-dilution protection, including, among other things, an adjustment for certain issuances of common stock of the Company without consideration or for a consideration per share less than the then Conversion Price. o Redemption: The Company must redeem (to the extent funds are lawfully available) the Convertible Preferred Stock when and as the Company receives, upon a refinancing of the New Debt, net proceeds from such refinancing in excess of the aggregate outstanding principal and interest amounts of New Debt (“Excess Refinancing Proceeds”). The Company may voluntarily redeem the Convertible Preferred Stock at the Liquidation Preference at any time upon 10-days written notice. o Voting: The Convertible Preferred Stock will vote together with the common stock of the Company on an “as-converted” basis. In addition, the consent of holders of more than 50% of the Convertible Preferred Stock, voting as a separate class, will be required for the Company to do any of the following, among other things: (i) Authorize or sell any equity securities pari passu or senior in right of liquidation to the Preferred Stock; (ii) except for certain indebtedness permitted by the Credit Agreement, authorize or issue any debt security unless the debt security has received the prior approval of the Board of Directors, or amend the terms of any agreement regarding material indebtedness of the Company unless the amendment has been approved by the Board of Directors; (iii) repurchase or redeem equity securities (other than from an employee following termination pursuant to an arrangement or agreement), or declare or pay any dividend on the common stock of the Company; (iv) sell, merge, recapitalize, reorganize, liquidate or dissolve the Company; (v) make any acquisitions greater than $5,000,000; (vi) amend organizational documents or enter into an agreement that adversely affects or alters the rights, preferences or privileges of the Convertible Preferred Stock; and (vii) issue any additional shares of common stock of the Company (other than pursuant to options outstanding on the Closing Date) or options or rights to acquire common stock of the Company. Tax Sharing Agreement The existing Federal Income Tax Sharing Agreement between Hallmark Cards and the Company will be amended effective as of January 1, 2010 (as amended, the “Tax Sharing Agreement”). The amendment will provide, among other things, that: o Hallmark Cards will not pay any Crown Tax Benefits (defined in the Tax Sharing Agreement) in cash and instead will carry forward any such amounts to offset future Crown Tax Liability (defined in the Tax Sharing Agreement); o the Company will be allowed to deduct both cash-pay and PIK interest due to Hallmark Cards in calculating tax-sharing payments; o the conversion of the HCC Debt pursuant to the Recapitalization will not be deemed the payment of interest expense to Hallmark Cards; o tax attributable to the cancellation of indebtedness income will be excluded from the calculation of tax sharing payments; and o any amounts related to taxes owed to Hallmark Cards prior to December 31, 2009, will be included in the HCC Debt, which will be converted into Class A Common Stock. The first payment by the Company pursuant to the Tax Sharing Agreement will occur after the first full quarter following the Closing Date and will be made in respect of the period commencing from January 1, 2010 through the last day of the first full quarter following the Closing Date. Registration Rights Agreement The Company and HCC will enter into a Registration Rights Agreement providing for three demand registration rights, three demand resale registration rights and unlimited piggyback registration rights. The registration rights concern, among other things, Class A Common Stock issued in the Recapitalization, Class A Common Stock issuable upon the conversion of the Convertible Preferred Stock, and Class A Common Stock acquired pursuant to subscription rights of HCC described below. Mergers and Amendments to Certificate of Incorporation Two intermediate holding companies (HEIC and HEH) will be merged with and into the Company, and the stockholders of those companies will receive their pro rata direct ownership of Class A Common Stock in connection therewith (the “Mergers”). The Company’s stockholders will receive no consideration in connection with these mergers. The Company will effect an amendment to the Company’s certificate of incorporation which will automatically convert the shares of Class B Common Stock into shares of Class A Common Stock and eliminate the super-voting nature of the Class B Common Stock, resulting in the only authorized common stock being the Class A Common Stock. The amendment will increase the Company’s authorized capital stock to 500,000,000 shares of Class A Common Stock and decrease the authorized Preferred Stock to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock which may be issued in series designated by the Board of Directors, of which 400,000 will be designated as Series A Preferred Stock. The provisions dealing with corporate opportunities will be revised to further delineate the duties of a director or officer of the Company who is also a director or officer of Hallmark Cards or its affiliates with respect to business opportunities and corporate transaction opportunities. Currently the Company is governed by Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, dealing with restrictions on business combinations, although, by the terms of Section 203, the restrictions on business combinations do not currently apply to Hallmark Cards or its affiliates. Pursuant to the amendments to the Certificate of Incorporation, the Company will elect not to be governed by Section 203 unless and until such time as (i) Section 203, but for the opt-out provision, would apply to the Company or (ii) there is a transaction in which Hallmark's beneficial interest in the Company is reduced to less than 50% of the outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock. Further, the Company’s Board of Directors and Hallmark Cards affiliates representing more than a majority of the voting power of the Company’s capital stock have approved of an amendment to the Company’s Certificate of Incorporation that provides for a reverse stock split at any time prior to December 31, 2013 upon the request of a special committee of the Company’s Board of Directors. The exact ratio of the reverse stock split will be determined by the Board of Directors, upon the recommendation of the special committee. Revolver As a condition to closing, the Company must have obtained a revolving credit facility from a third-party lender with a term of not less than 360 days from the Closing Date and with availability of at least $30.0 million (the “Revolver”). The Revolver will have other terms and conditions reasonably acceptable to the Company, and Hallmark Cards must have guaranteed, or caused one or more of its affiliates to have guaranteed, the Revolver. Waiver Agreement The Waiver Agreement, which was entered into on March 10, 2008 and most recently amended in May 2009, has been amended to provide that the waiver thereunder will terminate automatically on August 31, 2010. Additionally, Hallmark will use its best efforts to ensure that the Company will have continued access to up to $30.0 million under the Company’s existing revolving credit facility while the Waiver Agreement is in effect. Standstill Agreement Hallmark Cards and HCC (“Hallmark” in this context) will enter into a stockholders agreement (the “Stockholders Agreement”) with standstill provisions pursuant to which they will agree that Hallmark will not acquire any additional shares of common stock of the Company through December 31, 2013, except: o additional shares of Class A Common Stock resulting from the conversion of the Convertible Preferred Stock; o acquisitions pursuant to the subscription rights described in the next paragraph; o with the prior approval of a special committee of the Company’s Board of Directors comprised solely of independent, disinterested directors; and o from January 1, 2012 through December 31, 2013, either (i) pursuant to a tender offer for all of the Company’s shares of Class A Common Stock, which tender offer is subject to a majority-of-a-minority tender condition, or (ii) pursuant to a “Premium Transaction” as described below under “Co-Sale Rights.” Until termination of the Stockholders Agreement, in the event that the Company proposes to issue additional shares of capital stock, options or rights to acquire equity securities or debt securities convertible into equity securities, the Company will offer to HCC and its affiliates such additional shares as will be necessary to ensure that Hallmark continues to own on a fully-diluted basis at least the same percentage of the shares of all classes of the Company capital stock as HCC and its affiliates owned immediately prior to such issuance. Co-Sale Rights The Stockholders Agreement also provides that: o Until December 31, 2013, HCC may not sell or transfer its Class A Common Stock to a third party, except: § from the Closing Date through December 31, 2013, with the prior approval of a special committee of the Company’s Board of Directors comprised solely of independent, disinterested directors; § on or after January 1, 2012, (i) in a Premium Transaction or (ii) pursuant to a public offering or block trade in which to the knowledge of HCC, no purchaser (together with its affiliates and associates) acquires beneficial ownership of a block of shares of the Company in excess of 5% (in the case of a public offering) or 2% (in the case of any block trade) of the outstanding Class A Common Stock; and § to an affiliate of Hallmark Cards or pursuant to a bona fide pledge of the shares to a lender that is not an affiliate of Hallmark Cards (collectively, a “Permitted Transfer”). A “Premium Transaction” is a transaction involving the sale or transfer by Hallmark of its shares of Class A Common Stock to a third party (by merger or otherwise) in which all stockholders unaffiliated with Hallmark will be entitled to participate and will be entitled to receive both (x) consideration equivalent in value to the highest consideration per share of Class A Common Stock received by HCC in connection with such transaction, and (y) a premium of $0.50 per share of Class A Common Stock (subject to adjustment for any stock splits, combinations, reclassifications, adjustments, sale of Class A Common Stock by the Company, or sale of Class A Common Stock by HCC pursuant to a public offering or block trade as permitted above, or any similar transaction). For the avoidance of doubt, the aggregate premium shall not exceed $17,400,880, which is the product of the number of outstanding shares owned by minority stockholders as of the date of the Master Recapitalization Agreement multiplied by $0.50. Also, for the avoidance of doubt, HCC may effectuate a Premium Transaction pursuant to a short-form merger (or other merger) between the Company and HCC or any purchaser of its shares, so long as the holders of Class A Common Stock not affiliated with HCC receive the consideration provided for in this paragraph in connection with such merger. o From and after January 1, 2014 until the earlier of (x) December 31, 2020 and (y) such time as Hallmark and its controlled affiliates no longer beneficially own a majority of the outstanding Class A Common Stock, HCC may not sell or transfer, in one or a series of related transactions, a majority of the outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock to a third party, unless (i) in a Permitted Transfer, (ii) with the prior approval of a special committee of the Board of Directors or (iii) all stockholders unaffiliated with Hallmark will be entitled to either (a) participate in such transaction on the same terms as HCC or (b) receive cash consideration equivalent in value to the highest consideration per share of Class A Common Stock received by HCC in connection with such transaction. In addition, the Stockholders Agreement sets forth the terms on which Hallmark Cards or one of its affiliates is required to provide a guarantee of the Revolver. The Hallmark obligations regarding the standstill provisions, co-sale rights and the guarantee of the Revolver will terminate upon a payment default on the New Debt, subject to a 60-day grace/cure period. The Stockholders Agreement also terminates on the earlier of such time as Hallmark and its affiliates cease to own a majority of the Class A Common Stock or December 31, 2020. Listing Requirements Pursuant to the Stockholders Agreement, the Company will use its commercially reasonable best efforts to maintain the listing of the Class A Common Stock on the NASDAQ Global Market through December 31, 2013. Until that date, HCC will (i) vote in favor of any proposed amendment to the Company’s certificate of incorporation to effect a reverse stock split with respect to the Class A Common Stock to maintain the listing on the NASDAQ Global Market if recommended by a majority of directors who are not affiliates of Hallmark and (ii) reasonably cooperate with the Company in meeting with representatives of the NASDAQ Global Market in support of such listing. Through December 31, 2013, HCC will not cause the Company to voluntarily delist the shares of Class A Common Stock from NASDAQ Global Market or deregister the shares of Class A Common Stock under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (except in connection with a Premium Transaction or tender offer by Hallmark which is a permitted acquisition of stock as described above). Martha Stewart Agreement In January 2010, Crown Media United States, LLC entered into a multi-year agreement with Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia, Inc. (“Martha Stewart Living”) to exclusively televise original episodes of the popular daytime home and lifestyle series The Martha Stewart Show on Hallmark Channel beginning September 2010. As part of the agreement, Martha Stewart Living will also develop a range of new and original series and prime time specials that will complement Hallmark Channel’s schedule. Beginning in the fall of 2010, Mondays through Fridays, The Martha Stewart Show, will be presented 10 a.m. to 11 a.m. (ET/PT), kicking off a two-and-half-hour block of original Martha Stewart programming. Following The Martha Stewart Show, from 11 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. (ET/PT) each weekday, the Hallmark Channel will present exclusive original programming currently in development at Martha Stewart Living that will feature a portfolio of creative content for which the Martha Stewart brand is known and which will showcase experts and personalities from within Martha Stewart Living. Additionally, Martha Stewart Living will develop numerous holiday and interview specials for prime time on the network. Company History Crown Media Holdings, Inc. was incorporated in the State of Delaware in December 1999. Its wholly-owned subsidiary, Crown Media United States, LLC, owns, operates and distributes the Channels. Significant investors in Crown Media Holdings include Hallmark Entertainment Investments Co. (“Hallmark Entertainment Investments”), a subsidiary of Hallmark Cards, the National Interfaith Cable Coalition, Inc. ("NICC"), The DIRECTV Group, Inc. and, indirectly through their investments in Hallmark Entertainment Investments, Liberty Media Corporation ("Liberty Media") and J.P. Morgan Partners (BHCA), L. P. ("J.P. Morgan"). Hallmark Cards controls the Company through its ownership of more than 80% of the equity interests in Hallmark Entertainment Investments and its control over the voting of our Class A and Class B common stock held by Hallmark Entertainment Investments. See also the description of the Hallmark Entertainment Investments Co. Stockholders Agreement in Part III - Item 13 below and Part III - - Item 12 below regarding beneficial ownership of our securities. Employees We had 178 employees at December 31, 2008, and 159 employees at December 31, 2009. Neither we nor any of our subsidiaries are parties to collective bargaining agreements. We believe that our relations with our employees are good. Most of our Channels’ employees work at our offices in Studio City, California and New York, New York. Industry Overview The pay television industry is comprised primarily of program suppliers, pay television channel providers and pay television distributors. Program suppliers, from whom we acquire or license a portion of our programming, include many of the major production studios and other independent production companies and independent owners of programming. These program suppliers create, develop and finance the production of, or control rights to, movies, television miniseries, series and other programming. We are a pay television channel provider. Pay television channel providers include all channel providers (except over-the-air broadcasters) and major U.S. cable and satellite networks. Pay television channel providers often produce programming and acquire or license programming from program suppliers and generally package the programming according to an overriding theme and brand strategy. Pay television providers and distributors generally restrict viewership through security encryption devices that limit viewership to paying subscribers. Pay television channel providers compete with each other for distribution and to attract viewers and advertisers. Pay television providers generally target audiences with a certain demographic composition, so that they can then sell advertising to advertisers seeking to reach the providers’ demographic audiences. Pay television distributors own and operate the platforms used to deliver channels to subscribers. These distributors use several different technologies to reach their subscribers as described below. Distributors attempt to create a mix of channels that will be attractive to their subscriber population in an attempt to gain new subscribers and to reduce subscriber turnover. Distributors have different levels of service for subscribers, with each service level containing some different channels. Pay television distributors often create “tiers” of programming services, and our services occasionally are offered on family or movie programming tiers. Various distributors offer additional broadband services such as Internet access, telephony and video-on-demand over their systems. As a result of the competition for use of the digital cable capacity for channels and broadband services, pay television channel providers are often required initially to pay subscriber acquisition fees to pay television distributors for carriage on their systems or the addition of subscribers. These subscriber acquisition fees are paid to television distributors on a per subscriber basis and generally in advance of any receipt of subscriber fee revenue from such pay television distributors. Distribution Platforms Four major distribution platforms are currently used to transmit programming. First, cable television systems use coaxial or fiber optic cable to transmit multiple channels between a central facility, known as a headend, and the individual subscriber's television set. Second, analog and digital satellite broadcast systems (such as direct-to-home or “DTH”) use satellite transponders to broadcast television programming to individual dwellings with satellite reception equipment, including a dish and a decoder. Third, telephone companies (“Telcos”) feature a combination of traditional cable and Protocol Television (“IPTV”) technologies. For example, Verizon adopted a hybrid model combining traditional cable and IPTV technologies while AT&T launched full-fledged IPTV networks. While traditional cable systems devote a slice of bandwidth for each channel and then cablecast them all out at once, IPTV uses a "switched video" architecture in which only the channel being watched at that moment is sent over the network, freeing up capacity for other features and more interactivity. Channels can also be distributed through satellite master antenna television (“SMATV”). SMATV is used primarily for buildings, such as apartments and hotels that receive programming from satellites by means of a single antenna that is connected to the buildings’ headend. The television signals are then distributed to individual units in the building by cable. For promotional purposes we exhibit excerpts of certain programming, and in one case, an entire program, on our website. The one case is the offering of our original series “Adoption” on the internet, for both its first and second seasons. Additionally, we offered streaming of certain original Holiday movies online during December 2009. We also currently offer certain episodes of Jack Hanna’s Animal Adventure online in full length. Sources of Revenue Subscriber Fees Subscriber fees are generally payable to us on a per subscriber basis by pay television distributors for the right to carry our Channels. Rates we receive per subscriber vary with changes in the following factors, among others: • the degree of competition in the market; • the relative position in the market of the distributor and the popularity of the channel; • the packaging arrangements for the channel; and • length of the contract term and other commercial terms. We are in continuous negotiations with our existing distributors to increase our subscriber base in order to enhance our advertising revenue. We have been subject in the past to requests by major distributors to pay subscriber acquisition fees for additional subscribers or to waive or accept lower subscriber fees if certain numbers of additional subscribers are provided. We also may help fund the distributors' efforts to market our Channels or we may permit distributors to offer limited promotional periods without payment of subscriber fees. Our Channels are usually offered as one of a number of channels on either a basic tier or part of other program packages and are not generally offered on a stand-alone basis. Thus, while a cable or satellite customer may subscribe and unsubscribe to the tiers and program packages in which one of our Channels is placed, these customers do not subscribe and unsubscribe to our Channels alone. We are not provided with information from the distributors on their overall subscriber churn and in what manner their churn rates affect our subscriber counts; instead, we are provided information on the total number of subscribers who receive the Channels. Our subscriber count depends on the number of distributors carrying one of our Channels and the size of such distributors as well as the program tiers on which our Channel is carried by these distributors. From time to time, we experience decreases in the number of subscribers as promotional periods end, or as a distributor arrangement is amended or terminated by us or the distributor. The level of subscribers could also be affected by a distributor repositioning our Channels from one tier to another tier. Management analyzes the estimated effect each new or amended distribution agreement will have on revenue and costs. Based upon these analyses, if subscriber acquisition fees are needed, management endeavors to achieve a fair combination of subscriber commitments and subscriber acquisition fees. We have generally paid certain television distributors up-front subscriber acquisition fees to obtain initial carriage on domestic pay distributor systems. Subscriber acquisition fees that we pay are capitalized and amortized over the contractual term of the applicable distribution agreement as a reduction in subscriber fee revenue. If the amortization expense exceeds the revenue recognized on a per distributor basis, the excess amortization is included as a component of cost of services. At the time we sign a distribution agreement and periodically thereafter, we evaluate the recoverability of the costs we incur against the incremental revenue directly and indirectly associated with each agreement. Generally, our distribution agreements last from three to ten years, and usually include annual increases of subscriber fees. In the past, for the most part, these distribution agreements also involved payments by us for the establishment of the relationship or, together with or in lieu of any payment, waived subscriber fees for our Channels to distributors for a period of time. Please see Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for information regarding subscriber fees. Advertising Revenue Television advertising is sold in a variety of formats. Most advertising supported cable networks rely largely upon the spot advertisement format. Spot advertisements are normally 30 seconds long and air during or between programs. They are often sold in packages of a certain number of spots with a commitment to deliver a certain number of viewers. An alternative to spot advertising is sponsorship, by which a company sponsors a program or selection of programs on a channel and receives enhanced exposure for its brand and products in these programs. An additional form of television advertising is direct response advertising, which is designed to elicit a specific and quantifiable response from the viewer. Unlike spot advertising, fees payable for this form of advertising are measured by viewer response to advertising, such as product purchases, rather than the viewer ratings which measures success in programming. A majority of the Hallmark Channel advertising revenue is comprised of spot advertising. The Hallmark Movie Channel’s revenue has been comprised to date primarily of direct response revenue. Please see “Current Challenges – Ratings” in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for information on the Hallmark Movie Channel’s commencing to sell spot advertising based on Nielsen ratings. The ability of a television channel to generate advertising revenue largely depends on estimated or actual viewing levels, primarily based on ratings, and on advertising rates. In the United States, independent ratings systems on which advertising sales can be based are well established and widely accepted within the industry. In addition, pay television channel providers and distributors may also provide estimated or actual subscriber information. Our rates for spot advertisements are generally calculated on the basis of an agreed upon price per unit of audience measurement in return for a guaranteed commitment by the advertiser. We commit to provide advertisers certain rating levels in connection with their advertising. Advertising rates also vary by time of year due to seasonal changes in television viewership. Revenue is recorded net of estimated delivery shortfalls (often referred to as “audience deficiency units”). Audience deficiency units (“ADUs”) are units of inventory (rights to utilize future advertising timeframes) that are made available to advertisers as fulfillment for past advertisements in programs that under-delivered on the guaranteed viewership ratings. ADUs are usually settled by providing the advertiser additional advertising time. Historically, there has been no cash paid to an advertiser to settle ADUs , but in 2009, the Company provided an immaterial amount of cash for settlements. The remainder of the revenue is recognized as the “make-good” advertising time is delivered in satisfaction of ADUs. Revenue from direct response advertising depends largely upon actions of viewers. Our Channel typically sells approximately 50% of its advertising in the “up-front” season, generally in June and July, for the last quarter of the same year and the first three quarters of the following year. We hold back a small percentage of our inventory for ADUs and sell the remainder in the spot or scatter market and to advertisers that purchase up-front inventory on a calendar year basis. For information on the up-front 2009/2010 season, see “Advertising Revenue” in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Among the 76 ad-supported cable channels in the United States market in 2009, the Hallmark Channel ranked 14th in total day viewership with an average 0.589 household rating for the year and 10th for prime time with an average 0.991 household rating for the year, according to Nielsen Media Research. In 2008, among the 73 ad-supported cable channels in the United States market, the Hallmark Channel ranked 11th in total day viewership with an average 0.695 household rating and 8th for prime time with an average 1.168 household rating, according to Nielsen Media Research. Total day means the time period measured from the time each day the broadcast of commercially-sponsored programming commences to the time such commercially-sponsored programming ends. We have advertising sales offices in New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, and Atlanta. In addition, we have made significant investments in programming, research, marketing and promotions, all specifically designed to support the sale of advertising time on our Channels. In December 2008, we entered into an agreement with Google Inc. under which advertisers may place ads on the Channels through the Google platform, which started in early 2009 for the Hallmark Movie Channel and the Hallmark Channel. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation” for further information on advertising and ratings. Programming Our Channels offer a range of high-quality entertainment programming for adults and families including popular television series, movies, miniseries, theatricals, romances, literary classics, and contemporary stories. Sources for programming on our Channels include programming licensed from Buena Vista Television, CBS Television Distribution, Hallmark Hall of Fame, Paramount Pictures, RHI Entertainment Distribution, Twentieth Television, Warner Bros. and other third party producers. Examples of programming from other producers include, the Hallmark Channel original movies Come Dance at My Wedding, The Good Witch, Mrs. Washington Goes to Smith, and Old Fashioned Thanksgiving. Examples of programming from the RHI Entertainment Distribution library include, Steve Martini’s The Judge, The Outsider, Talking to Heaven, and The Five People You’ll Meet in Heaven. We benefit from original productions, whether they have aired on other networks or are premiered on our Channel. Examples of other third party programming shown on our Channel include the popular series M*A*S*H, Little House on the Prairie, 7th Heaven, Touched by an Angel, The Golden Girls and Cheers. Examples of Twentieth Television family-friendly movies include Big, Cheaper by the Dozen, Home Alone and Working Girl. Other examples of our third party programming include acquired movies and miniseries such as Ever After, The Ultimate Gift, My Favorite Martian and Hocus Pocus. Our license agreements with third parties typically provide for a license fee paid out over the term of the license for the right to exhibit a program in the United States within a specified period of time. Our channels air, and benefit from, programming previously shown as Hallmark Hall of Fame such as John Grisham’s Painted House, The Magic of Ordinary Days, Back When We Were Grownups, Sarah, Plain and Tall and What the Deaf Man Heard. We have occasionally sublicensed exhibition rights to third parties to select programs in order to reduce our programming costs. Distribution The Hallmark Channel ended 2009 with 88.3 million subscribers, an increase of 3% from 85.5 million at the 2008 year-end. We currently distribute the Hallmark Channel to approximately 85% of all United States pay television subscribers. The following table shows the approximate number of pay television households and the Hallmark Channel subscribers for each of the eleven largest pay television distributors, and all other pay television distributors as a group, in the United States as of December 31, 2009. HALLMARK HALLMARK CHANNEL - U.S. TOTAL U.S. PAY TV CHANNEL - U.S. % OF PAY TV PAY TELEVISION DISTRIBUTOR HOUSEHOLDS (1) SUBSCRIBERS (1) HOUSEHOLDS (In thousands, except percentages) Comcast 27,034 22,618 83.7 % DIRECTV 18,441 17,717 96.1 % Time Warner 15,775 13,282 84.2 % Dish Network 13,851 11,778 85.0 % Cox 5,528 4,670 84.5 % Charter 5,701 4,621 81.1 % Cablevision 3,001 2,540 84.6 % AT&T (U-verse) 1,817 1,777 97.8 % Verizon Communications (FiOS) 2,035 1,722 84.6 % Mediacom 1,553 1,289 83.0 % NCTC and all others 9,238 6,306 68.3 % Total 103,974 88,320 84.9 % (1) Source: Nielsen Code and The Nielsen Public U.E. December 2009. Our subscribers in the United States have grown from approximately 16.0 million full time subscribers at January 1, 2001. Our major distribution agreements have terms with options which extend through December 2023. Of these distribution agreements, an agreement accounting for approximately 5% of our subscriber base at December 31, 2009, will expire and be the subject of renewal negotiations on or prior to December 31, 2010. A distribution agreement with NCTC representing approximately 9% of our Hallmark Channel subscriber base as of December 31, 2009, expired in December 2009. Our Channels continue to be distributed by NCTC under the terms of the expired agreement through an extension to that agreement while negotiations continue on a renewal. At December 31, 2009, the Hallmark Movie Channel was distributed to over 29.1 million subscribers, an increase of nearly 14.5 million subscribers from 14.6 million at December 31, 2008. As of October 15, 2009, the Hallmark Movie Channel was distributed in the nation’s top 30 demographic measurement areas (DMA’s). Sales and Marketing Our primary target demographics are women aged 25 to 54 and adults aged 25 to 54. Our programming is targeted to adults, but is generally appropriate for viewing by the entire family, which is important to viewers, advertisers and affiliates. For over fifty years Hallmark has been a leader in high-quality original television production. The Hallmark Channel and the Hallmark Movie Channel have the exclusive cable license to broadcast the movies previously shown as Hallmark Hall of Fame, a selection of movies from an award-winning entertainment series. The power of the Hallmark brand and the quality of our programming combine to: · provide our viewers with tangible evidence of our commitment to the best in entertainment for the entire family; · enhance our ability to attract advertising commitments and higher rates (“Cost-Per-Thousands” or “CPM’s”) from the largest advertisers; and · provide a competitive advantage in negotiating long-term distribution agreements with pay television distributors. Crown Media Holdings currently uses the websites www.hallmarkchannel.com and www.hallmarkmoviechannel.com to promote the Channels and their programs and to provide information to potential viewers. These websites support major programming events such as original movie premieres and program acquisitions as well as contain information regarding the Channels’ program schedule and information on the Channels’ programs and their stars. Further, the sites provide platforms for viewer participation in the Channels’ sweepstakes promotions and community areas. The sites have advertiser imaging including banner messages and video content. Channel Operations The programming department has been responsible for ensuring the consistent quality of the programming we offer. The programming, scheduling and acquisitions departments work in conjunction with the marketing and creative services departments to create the distinctive appearance of our Channels. Some of these functions are outsourced on an as-needed basis. The creation of our Channels begins with the acquisition of programming. Our staff or third parties review and summarize all potential programming to ensure compliance with our quality and content standards. The creation of on-air promotional segments “interstitials,” which are broadcast between the feature movies, miniseries and series, are typically created by the Company’s employees, but are occasionally outsourced to external vendors. These interstitials are intended to invite viewership, guide viewers to specific programming, and promote "brand awareness" for the Channels. Occasionally, these interstitials are sponsored by advertisers, resulting in additional advertising revenue. The scheduling department creates the play list, which contains a list of daily programming. The scheduling department works with advertising sales, research and distributor sales and marketing personnel to continuously monitor the effectiveness of programming content and sequence. The play list is then forwarded to the traffic department. The traffic department inserts promotional segments and advertising into the play list and creates the daily log, which contains a detailed schedule of the stream of programming, commercials and promotional materials that will ultimately be distributed to the subscribers of the Channels. Channel Delivery We deliver the daily log and digital tapes of the Hallmark Channel and Hallmark Movie Channel programming, commercials and promotional messages to a third party network operations center in Los Angeles, California, where the programming, advertising and promotional elements are combined and compressed. The Channels are compiled in high definition (“HD”) and then the same versions of the Channels are created in standard definition (“SD”). The Los Angeles facility transmits the combined signals to a satellite transponder that covers the United States. The transponder transmits the signal back to cable head-end facilities, Telcos and direct-to-home satellite services operated by pay television distributors who receive and decode our signal and transmit our Channels to their subscribers. The following chart summarizes for the primary distribution platforms through which we deliver our Channels, our primary pay television distributors, and the uplink and satellites we currently use to deliver our Channels. Primary Primary Channel Uplink Distribution Pay TV Origination Providers/ Platforms Distributors Providers/Locations Locations Satellites Cable AT&T (U-verse) Andrita Studios Andrita Studios Hallmark Channel: Cablevision Los Angeles, CA Los Angeles, CA SES Americom Charter Comcast Hallmark Movie Channel: AMC 11 Cox NCTC Mediacom Time Warner Verizon Communications (FiOS) Satellite DirecTV Andrita Studios Andrita Studios Hallmark Channel: Direct-to- Dish Network Los Angeles, CA Los Angeles, CA SES Americom home Hallmark Movie Channel: AMC 11 The contracts with the parties providing origination, uplink, satellite and other services for the delivery of our Channels in the United States expire from 2013 through 2019. Such contracts may be terminated by the vendors prior to the expiration of the contracts under conditions that are customary to contracts of this type. Amounts payable under these contracts, as well as international contracts, are reflected in “Operating and Capital Leases” in the schedule of contractual commitments as of December 31, 2009, as shown in Item 7 below. Agreements with two other parties for the delivery of the Channels were terminated in early 2010. See “Results of Operations – Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 – Cost of Services” under Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” regarding these terminations. Competition The pay television industry is highly competitive. Our Channels compete for distribution, viewers and advertisers with other pay television channels, broadcast television channels and with other general forms of entertainment. There are several sources of competition within our industry, each of which affects our business strategy. The Hallmark Channel competes with other general entertainment programming from TNT, USA Network, A&E, TV Land, Lifetime, Oxygen, ABC Family and other similarly targeted channels. We compete with these channels for viewers and advertising dollars based upon quality of programming, number of subscribers, ratings and subscriber demographics. We compete with all channels for carriage on cable, satellite and telephone systems that may have limited capacity. Competition continues to intensify as the industry shifts from analog distribution to digital distribution. Many pay television distributors have upgraded their physical infrastructures to accommodate digital delivery, which provides significantly more channel capacity. In an effort to accelerate the conversion, pay television distributors are attempting to place new channels on their digital tier as opposed to their limited, yet more widely-distributed, basic analog tiers. Although competition for the remaining analog channel space is still intense, as more and more subscribers are converted, the digital tier is expected to become the dominant platform. Competitive Strengths We believe that our primary competitive strengths include the following: · Programming. We have established a track record of providing high quality family programming. · Pay Television Channels Branded with the Well-Known Hallmark Name. Our Channels are branded with the Hallmark name. We believe that viewers and distributors associate the Hallmark brand with family values and high quality content. Our association with this brand facilitates our efforts to achieve increased distribution and to attract additional viewers, which in turn affects ratings and advertising revenue. · Experienced Management. Members of our senior management team have experience promoting and operating channels. They have held senior positions at such companies as ABC, CBS Sports, Fox Family, Discovery Channel, AMC and USA Networks. Competitive Risks We believe that our primary competitive risks include the following: · One Primary Channel Distributed Domestically. We operate only two channels. Many of our competitors have more than two channels and are also diversified entertainment companies, giving them an advantage in dealing with distributors and advertisers. These companies are also able to leverage costs across multiple channels. Until the Hallmark Movie Channel is more widely distributed, it will not provide significant leverage in negotiations with distributors and advertisers. · Entertainment Programming. Our programming is entertainment designed for adults and families and is intended to meet quality standards that are associated with the Hallmark trademark. Our competitors may have more flexibility in programming. · Ratings Which Affect Advertising. Our ratings are a significant and generally positive factor. Nevertheless, our competitors include channels with more subscribers and higher ratings, which affect rates that we can charge for advertising. Research The research department at the Company provides strategic and tactical guidance to decision-makers within the Company, as well as supplying information about the Channels to our potential advertisers and affiliates. This department provides data on the size and demographics of our audience and information about our audiences, competitors, markets and industry. Currently, our Channels’ research department translates our overall business strategy into a cohesive research program. This information assists our executives to more effectively target, brand, promote, program, and better understand where opportunities lie, in order to increase our Channels’ market share. The research department has sophisticated research tools and competitive tracking database hardware and software. Trends and changes from these ratings systems are reported to top management for short and long-term strategic planning. Our Channels’ performance is tracked through an internal tracking study established in July 2001, which is a monthly telephone survey conducted among a national probability sample of approximately 1,000 adults. The research department also subscribes to a number of other services, which are useful in obtaining information about viewers of our Channel. Available Information We will make available free of charge through our website, www.hallmarkchannel.com, this Annual Report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to such reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such material with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Additionally, we will make available, free of charge upon request, a copy of our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which is applicable to all of our employees, including our senior financial officers. Requests for a copy of this Code should be addressed to the General Counsel at Crown Media Holdings, Inc., 12700 Ventura Boulevard, Studio City, California 91604. ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors and Forward-Looking Statements The discussion set forth in this Form 10-K contains statements concerning potential future events. Such forward-looking statements are based on assumptions by Crown Media Holdings management, as of the date of this Form 10-K including assumptions about risks and uncertainties faced by Crown Media Holdings. Readers can identify these forward-looking statements by their use of such verbs as "expects," "anticipates," "believes," or similar verbs or conjugations of such verbs. If any of management's assumptions prove incorrect or should unanticipated circumstances arise, Crown Media Holdings' actual results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements could materially differ from those anticipated by such forward-looking statements. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are those discussed below in this Form 10-K. Crown Media Holdings will not update any forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K to reflect future events or developments. If we do not successfully address the risks described below, our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow could be materially adversely affected. The trading price of our Class A common stock could decline because of any of these risks. Risks Relating to Our Business Our business has incurred net losses since inception and may continue to incur losses. Our Channels have a history of net losses and we expect to continue to report net losses for the foreseeable future. As of December 31, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $2.2 billion, total stockholders’ deficit of approximately $698.0 million, and goodwill of approximately $314.0 million. We cannot assure you that we will achieve an operating profit or sustain a positive cash flow. If we are not able to do so, the trading price of our Class A common stock may fall significantly. To diminish our losses, to continue to be profitable before interest expense and to continue to generate a positive cash flow, we will need to increase our advertising and subscriber revenue. This will require, among other things, maintaining the distribution of our Channels, attracting more and younger viewers to our channels, attracting more advertisers, and maintaining or increasing our subscriber and advertising rates. Risks associated with these areas of our business are described below. In addition, in order to accomplish these goals, the management of Crown Media Holdings continues to believe that it is necessary to maintain subscriber levels and enhance our programming, which may result in increased costs for programming. Over the last five years, these actions have contributed to net losses for Crown Media Holdings. To achieve positive net income, we would also need to decrease our interest expense by reducing our outstanding indebtedness. We believe that our ability to continue operations depends upon completion of the Recapitalization. We are unable to meet our debt obligations due August 31, 2010, which are owed to affiliates of Hallmark Cards and are owed under the bank credit facility. The Recapitalization is intended to exchange the existing debt obligations to the Hallmark affiliates for new debt, preferred stock and common stock. Hallmark Cards and its affiliates own beneficially a sufficient number of shares of Class A and Class B stock to approve the Recapitalization transactions. Nevertheless, consummation of the Recapitalization transactions is not assured. Various conditions must be satisfied for a closing of the Recapitalization, including that Hallmark Cards has not delivered a written notice to the Company certifying that Hallmark Cards, in its sole discretion, shall have determined that the status of any pending or threatened litigation or a regulatory proceeding involving the Company or its subsidiaries in connection with the Recapitalization is unsatisfactory to Hallmark Cards. A lawsuit challenging the original proposal for the Recapitalization was filed in 2009, and the plaintiff in that lawsuit has indicated a continuing objection to the Recapitalization. We do not know what steps will be taken in this existing lawsuit or whether any new lawsuits will be brought in regard to the Recapitalization. In any event, there can be no assurance that the Recapitalization will be completed. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health, and the restrictions imposed by the terms of our debt instruments may severely limit our ability to plan for or respond to changes in our business. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness. At this time, prior to the Recapitalization, to the extent interest is deferred and added to principal, the indebtedness increases. As of December 31, 2009, our total debt was $1.1 billion, and we had $10.5 million of cash and cash equivalents and $44.0 million available under our bank credit facility to support our operations. As a result of our present level of debt and the terms of our debt instruments: • our vulnerability to adverse general economic conditions is heightened; • we are required to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to repayment of debt, limiting the availability of cash for other purposes; • we are, and will continue to be, limited by financial and other restrictive covenants in our ability to borrow additional funds, consummate asset sales, enter into transactions with affiliates or conduct mergers and acquisitions; • our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry will be limited; • we are sensitive to fluctuations in interest rates; • our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes may be impaired; and • offers to purchase the Company or its assets at prices that may be attractive to stockholders may be limited. Our ability to meet our debt and other obligations and to reduce our total debt likely depends at this time on completing the Recapitalization; in the future our ability to meet our debt and other obligations will depend on our operating performances and on economic, financial, competitive and other factors. There can be no assurance that our leverage and such restrictions will not materially and adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. Even if the Recapitalization is completed, we will have substantial indebtedness (although significantly reduced) as well as dividends that are paid or accrued on the preferred stock that will be outstanding, and the factors listed above (some to a lesser extent) will continue to apply. Information concerning our liquidity may be found in Note 1 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Report. We have significant interest expense, which may impact our future operations. High levels of interest expense could have negative effects on our future operations. Interest expense, which includes amortization of debt issuance costs and interest expense on borrowings under our senior and demand notes and bank credit facility, was significant over the past year. Although interest expense was lower in the past twelve months than in the previous twelve months, we continue to have significant outstanding indebtedness and related interest expense. The Recapitalization would significantly reduce our outstanding indebtedness and interest expense; nevertheless, even with the Recapitalization, there will be substantial indebtedness and related interest expense. A substantial portion of our cash flow from operations will be used to pay our interest expense and will not be available for other business purposes. In addition, we may need to incur additional indebtedness in the future. We cannot be assured that our business will generate sufficient cash flow or that future financings will be available to provide sufficient proceeds to meet our obligations or to service our total debt. Our liquidity is dependent on external funds. Although in the past twelve months we generated positive cash flow from operations, unanticipated significant expense or any developments that hamper our growth in revenue or decreases any of our revenue, may result in the need for additional external funds in order to continue operations. Except for the Recapitalization, we have no arrangements for any such additional external financings, whether debt or equity, and are not certain whether any new external financing would be available on acceptable terms. Any new debt financing would require the cooperation and agreement of existing lenders. The Company is currently unable to meet its debt obligations to Hallmark Cards and its affiliates and under the bank credit facility which come due on and after August 31, 2010. A default on the obligations due on August 31, 2010, would also result in a default under the Company’s 10.25% Senior Secured Note. The Company anticipates that prior to August 31, 2010, it will be necessary to extend, refinance or restructure (i) the bank credit facility and (ii) the promissory notes payable to affiliates of Hallmark Cards. To accomplish those changes, the Company plans to complete the Recapitalization. The Recapitalization contemplates that we will endeavor to have a revolving line of credit with JPMorgan Chase or another third party in the amount of $30.0 million with a maturity date of not less than 360 days from closing the Recapitalization. There is no assurance that Hallmark Cards and its affiliates will extend dates for the deferral of payments on indebtedness owed by us or participate in any extension, refinancing or restructuring of the indebtedness. We have substantial outstanding obligations owed to Hallmark Cards and its affiliates. These obligations include promissory notes and amounts owed under a service agreement. Hallmark Cards, its affiliates and we are parties to the Waiver Agreement, as amended, under which principal payments and certain interest payments on the promissory notes are deferred until August 31, 2010, subject to earlier termination as provided in that Agreement. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - - Bank Credit Facility and Hallmark Notes and Item 13 - Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence. These obligations and the Waiver Agreement have been negotiated by us with Hallmark Cards and its affiliates. Hallmark Cards and its affiliates have indicated that they do not intend to extend the Waiver Agreement beyond August 31, 2010. Any decision by Hallmark Cards and its affiliates on these matters other than pursuant to the Recapitalization is at their discretion. “Most Favored Nations” provisions may require modification of existing distribution agreements which could adversely affect subscriber revenue. A number of our existing distribution agreements contain "most favored nations" or “MFN” clauses. These clauses typically provide that, in the event we enter into an agreement with another distributor on more favorable terms, these terms must be offered to the distributor holding the MFN right, subject to certain exceptions and conditions. These clauses cover matters such as subscriber fees, launch support, local advertising time and other financial and operating provisions. In the past, after entering into new distribution agreements, we have been asked by some of the distributors holding MFN rights to modify their distribution agreements to incorporate financial terms similar to those in the new agreements. Any claims of this type in the future could result in lower overall subscriber revenue or increased cash outlays; however, if our subscription base is increased as a result of such modifications, it could result in higher advertising revenue. If we are unable to obtain programming from third parties, we may be unable to increase our subscriber base. We compete with other pay television channel providers to acquire programming. If we fail to continue to obtain programming on reasonable terms for any reason, including as a result of competition, we could be forced to incur additional costs to acquire such programming or look for alternative programming, which may hinder the growth of our subscriber base. If our programming declines in popularity, our subscriber fees and advertising revenue could fall. Our success depends partly upon unpredictable and volatile factors beyond our control, such as viewer preferences, competing programming and the availability of other entertainment activities. We may not be able to anticipate and react effectively to shifts in tastes and interests in our markets. Our competitors may have greater numbers of original productions, better distribution, and greater capital resources, and may be able to react more quickly to shifts in tastes and interests. As a result, we may be unable to maintain the commercial success of any of our current programming, or to generate sufficient demand and market acceptance for our new programming. A shift in viewer preferences in programming or alternative entertainment activities could also cause a decline in both advertising and subscriber fees revenue. The decline in revenue could hinder or prevent us from achieving profitability or maintaining a positive cash flow and could adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock. In the second, third and fourth quarters of 2009, except for the holiday period commencing with Thanksgiving and ending on January 3, 2010, we experienced declines in viewer ratings across demographic categories, compared to the same periods of 2008, resulting in decreases in advertising revenues and cash flows. This decline has continued in the early part of 2010. A number of changes to our program schedule were implemented in the second and third quarters of 2009, including the replacement of programs that had appeared in the schedule for a number of years, as well as a shift in scheduling strategy to more specifically target our prime demographic group of women 25-54. These changes have caused a temporary disruption to established viewing patterns for our audience resulting in declines in household ratings but over time are intended to increase our delivery of viewers in the women 25-54 demographic category. We are considering further changes in our programming that may be helpful. We must successfully implement the program rescheduling with an increase in ratings, which is uncertain, or otherwise address the decrease in ratings in order to maintain or increase our advertising revenues, to maintain subscriber fees and to maintain or improve our cash flow from operations. In addition, our delivery of key demographics continues to be impacted by industry developments. One potentially significant factor is the continued growth of time-shifting digital video recording devices (DVRs). DVRs heighten the impact of competition as viewers are able to increase their access to what they consider to be new, compelling content. The number of cable networks investing in original programming increased 74% in 2009, and acquired (non-original) programming now represents only 33% of the prime time cable programming. Although Hallmark Channel continues to invest in original programming, our increase in investment for original content did not match the growth of the market or many of our competitors. If we are unable to increase our advertising revenue, we may be unable to achieve improved results. Although it is expected over time that our advertising revenue will increase, if we fail to significantly increase our advertising revenue, we may be unable to achieve or sustain improved results or to expand our business. A failure to increase advertising revenue may be a result of any or all of the following: (i) a continued decline in viewer ratings mentioned above; (ii) the current economic environment presents uncertainty regarding the condition of the advertising marketplace and the financial health of many industry segments and individual companies, including those which advertise on our channels; (iii) we may be unable to reduce our average viewer age to be within our target audience of viewers between the ages of 25 and 54; (iv) we may be unable to identify, attract and retain experienced sales and marketing personnel with relevant experience; (v) our sales and marketing organization may be unable to successfully compete against the significantly more extensive and well-funded sales and marketing operations of our current or potential competitors; (vi) the advancement of technologies such as Digital Video Recording may cause advertisers to shift their expenditures to media in which their commercial messages are not circumvented by the technology; and/or (vii) we will not be able to increase our advertising sales rate-card or may be required to run additional advertising spots to fulfill guaranteed delivery numbers which affect the availability of advertising inventory for future sales. Success in increasing our advertising revenue also depends upon the number and coverage of the distributors who carry our channels and our number of subscribers. Current economic conditions have resulted in softness of advertising rates and may materially adversely impact our business. In the second half of 2008 and during the first three quarters of 2009, we experienced some softening of our general advertising rate prices and a more dramatic decrease in the rates of our direct response advertising because of economic conditions. The volume of advertising has not been impacted. See “Results of Operations” in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009, in this Report for additional information on this subject. In addition, the turmoil in the investment market, the tightening of credit and relatively high, increasing levels of unemployment in the United States have lead to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and possibly a reduction in business activity generally. A continuation of these conditions could have the following negative effects, among others: (1) a reduction in spending by advertisers and consumers in general, which in turn could reduce our number of subscribers and/or advertising rates, resulting in reduced revenue; and (2) a further increase in bad debts or the reserve for bad debts. These factors could make more difficult the goal of a continuing positive cash flow, any renewal of the Bank credit facility and any financial restructuring. Hallmark Entertainment Investments controls us and this control could create conflicts of interest or inhibit potential changes of control. Hallmark Entertainment Investments owns all of our outstanding shares of Class B common stock and, together with other affiliates of Hallmark Cards, owns approximately 71.8% of the outstanding shares of our Class A common stock, representing in the aggregate approximately 94.5% of the outstanding voting power on all matters submitted to our stockholders. Hallmark Entertainment Holdings, a subsidiary of Hallmark Cards, controls the voting of all our shares held by Hallmark Entertainment Investments. Additionally, a significant portion of our overall indebtedness is held by Hallmark Cards or its wholly owned affiliates. This control could discourage others from initiating potential merger, takeover or other change of control transactions that may otherwise be beneficial to our business or holders of Class A common stock. As a result, the market price of our Class A common stock could suffer, and our business could suffer. In addition, the control that Hallmark Cards and/or these specific wholly-owned affiliates may exert over us, either directly or indirectly, could give rise to conflicts of interest in certain situations. After the Recapitalization, Hallmark Cards will own 90.1% of the outstanding Common Stock and will be subject to standstill and other provisions in a stockholder agreement as described earlier in this Report. We could lose the right to use the name “Hallmark” because we have limited-duration license agreements, which could harm our business. We license the name "Hallmark" from Hallmark Licensing, Inc., a subsidiary of Hallmark Cards, for use in the names of our Channels. This license will expire on September 1, 2010. If Hallmark Cards determines not to renew the trademark license agreements for any reason, including failure to comply with Hallmark Cards' programming standards, we would be forced to significantly revise our business plan and operations, and could experience a significant erosion of our subscriber base and advertising revenue. If our third-party suppliers fail to provide us with network infrastructure services on a timely basis, our costs could increase and our growth could be hindered. We currently rely on third parties to supply key network infrastructure services, including uplink, playback, transmission and satellite services to our market, which are available only from limited sources. We have occasionally experienced delays and other problems in receiving communications equipment, services and facilities and may, in the future, be unable to obtain such services, equipment or facilities on the scale and within the time frames required by us on terms we find acceptable, or at all. If we are unable to obtain, or if we experience a delay in the delivery of, such services, we may be forced to incur significant unanticipated expenses to secure alternative third party suppliers or adjust our operations, which could hinder our growth and reduce our revenue and potential profitability. If we are unable to retain key executives and other personnel, our growth could be inhibited and our business harmed. Our success depends on the expertise and continued service of our executive officers and key employees of our subsidiaries. If we fail to attract, hire or retain the necessary personnel, or if we lose the services of our key executives, we may be unable to implement our business plan or keep pace with developing trends in our industry. The amount of our goodwill may hinder our ability to achieve profitability. As a result of our acquisitions of all the common interests in Crown Media United States, we have recorded a significant amount of goodwill. We are required to periodically review whether the value of our goodwill has been impaired. If we are required to write down our goodwill, our results of operations, stockholders' equity (deficit) could be materially adversely affected. Our stock price may be volatile and could decline substantially. The stock market has, from time to time, experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Many factors may cause the market price for our Class A common stock to decline, including the following: • any failure to recapitalize or restructure our outstanding indebtedness; • failure of our operating results to meet the expectations of investors in any quarter; • economic conditions that adversely affect our advertising rates or our number of subscribers; • material announcements by us or our competitors; • governmental regulatory action; • technological innovations by competitors or competing technologies; • perceptions by the investing community or our customers with respect to the prospects of our company or our industry; • changes in general market conditions or economic trends; and • failure by us to renew major distribution agreements. Additionally, of the approximately 74.1 million shares of the Company’s outstanding Class A common stock, only 11.6 million shares (approximately 16%), plus shares held by The DIRECTV Group, Inc. and National Interfaith Cable Coalition, are held by non-affiliates of the Company. This stock ownership structure may also be a cause of volatility in the market price of the Company’s Class A common stock. Prior to entering into a new agreement on January 2, 2008, certain programming and other commitments in then existing agreements with the National Interfaith Cable Coalition (“NICC”) would have terminated upon the sale of 50% or more of the shares of Class A common stock owned by NICC. On January 2, 2008, we and NICC entered into a new agreement superseding prior agreements and terminating most programming relationships with NICC. Additionally, NICC owns approximately 4.4 million shares of the Company’s Class A common stock. As a result of the agreement mentioned above, NICC has sold some of its Class A common stock and may continue to do so, which could have an adverse impact on the share price of our Class A common stock. Risks Relating to Our Industry The recent change in the television rating system in the United States could reduce our Channel revenue and our ability to achieve profitability. Our domestic advertising revenue is partially dependent on television ratings provided by Nielsen Media Research. In 2007, Nielsen modified its ratings system by increasing its household sample size. In the fourth quarter of 2007, Nielsen began measuring and providing performance data based on viewing of commercial content as well as programming content. As the impact of the changes continue to take effect, our ratings could either be positively or negatively affected by these changes, depending on the demographic characteristics of the households added to the Nielsen sample and the nature of the changes in the measurement systems. From the beginning of the fourth quarter of 2007 through the fourth quarter of 2008, we experienced a decrease in viewers of approximately 5% under the new ratings measurement system compared to the system previously in use. We continue to factor the new rating information into our advertising rates as Nielsen is continually in the process of modifying its ratings system to accommodate emerging technologies. Competition could reduce our Channels revenue and our ability to achieve profitability. We operate in the pay television business, which is highly competitive. If we are unable to compete effectively with large diversified entertainment companies that have substantially greater resources than we have, our operating margins and market share could be reduced, and the growth of our business inhibited. In particular, we compete for distribution with other pay television channels and, when distribution is obtained, for viewers and advertisers with pay television channels, broadcast television networks, radio, the Internet and other media. We also compete, to varying degrees, with other leisure-time activities such as movie theaters, the Internet, radio, print media, electronic games and other alternative sources of entertainment and information. Future technological developments may affect competition within this business. A continuing trend towards business combinations and alliances in the communications industry may create significant new competitors for us or intensify existing competition. Many of these combined entities have more than one channel and resources far greater than ours. These combined entities may provide bundled packages of programming, delivery and other services that compete directly with the products we offer. We may need to reduce our prices or license additional programming to remain competitive, and we may be unable to sustain future pricing levels as competition increases. Our failure to achieve or sustain market acceptance of our programming at desired pricing levels could impair our ability to achieve profitability or positive cash flow, which would harm our business. Distributors in the United States may attempt to pressure pay TV channels having lower viewership, such as our Channels, to accept decreasing amounts for subscriber fees, to pay higher subscriber acquisition fees or to allow carriage of the Channels without the payment of subscriber fees. Factors that may lead to this pressure include the number of competing pay TV channels, the limited space available on services of distributors in the United States and the desire of distributors to maintain or reduce costs. Any reduction in subscriber fees revenue now or in the future could have a material impact on our operating results and cash flow. New distribution technologies may fundamentally change the way we distribute our Channels and could significantly decrease our revenue or require us to incur significant capital expenditures. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and adapt to technological changes and to offer, on a timely basis, services that meet customer demands and evolving industry standards. The pay television industry has been, and is likely to continue to be, subject to: • rapid and significant technological change, including continuing developments in technology which do not presently have widely accepted standards; and • frequent introductions of new services and alternative technologies, including new technologies for providing video services. For example, the advent of digital technology is likely to accelerate the convergence of broadcast, telecommunications, Internet and other media and could result in material changes in the economics, regulations, intellectual property usage and technical platforms on which our business relies, including lower retail rates for video services. These changes could fundamentally affect the scale, source, and volatility of our revenue streams, cost structures, and operating results, and may require us to significantly change our operations. We also rely in part on third parties for the development of, and access to, communications and network technology. As a result, we may be unable to obtain access to new technology on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms, which could harm our business and prospects. Moreover, the increased capacity of digital distribution platforms, including the introduction of digital terrestrial television, may reduce the competition for the right to carry channels and allow development of extra services at low incremental cost. These lower incremental costs could lower barriers to entry for competing channels, and place pressure on our operating margins and market position. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. ITEM 