Risk Factors We face significant risks and the risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not know of, or that we currently believe are immaterial, may also adversely affect the Company. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The recent delisting of our common stock could have a substantial effect on the price and liquidity of our common stock. On October 14, 2005, the Company’s common stock was delisted from The NASDAQ National Market. The delisting decision was made by the NASDAQ Listings Qualifications Panel, following an appeal by the Company of a prior determination by the staff of the NASDAQ Stock Market (the “Staff”) that the Company was a “public shell,” raising public interest concerns pursuant to Marketplace Rule 4300. The Company’s quotation for its common stock currently appears in the “Pink Sheets” under the trading symbol “IBPI”. The recent delisting could result in significantly decreased liquidity for the Company’s common stock, making it more difficult for investors to purchase or sell shares of common stock or to obtain accurate quotations as to the price of the common stock. This increased difficulty in trading our common stock could also have a substantial negative effect on the price of the common stock. 2 Table of Contents As previously disclosed, the Company issued warrants to purchase shares of its common stock in connection with its Series A convertible preferred stock offering on May 1, 2003 which provide that if the Company’s common stock is delisted from NASDAQ, the purchase price for the stock upon exercise of the warrants will be reduced by 50% without any concomitant increase in the number of shares of common stock for which the warrants are then exercisable. This provision was triggered by the Company’s October 2005 delisting. As of September 30, 2005, the Company had warrants to purchase 789,171 shares of its common stock outstanding with an exercise price of $2.066 per share. As a result of the October 14, 2005 delisting, the exercise price dropped from $2.066 to $1.033 per share, and the Company recorded a non-cash charge to “other expense” and an offsetting increase in paid-in-capital in December of 2005 of $789,000 to reflect the fair market value of these warrants. We are currently a party to a securities litigation class action lawsuit, which, if determined adversely, could negatively affect or limit our strategic alternatives, our financial results or business. We are currently a party to securities litigation that is described in detail below in Part I, Item 3 of this annual report on Form 10-K. The cost of defense and ultimate disposition of this securities litigation could be material. The Company and the individual defendants are insured under the Company’s directors’ and officers’ insurance policies, with $15 million in total coverage, and a $500,000 deductible, which has been met. However, the Company may incur expenses in the defense or disposition of this securities litigation beyond what is covered by insurance. In addition, the securities litigation has been, and may continue to be, time-consuming and costly. Directors, principal stockholders and affiliated entities beneficially own or control at least 48% of our capital stock outstanding and may be able to exert control over our activities, and the results of our operations and financial condition may suffer. As of December 31, 2005, our directors, principal stockholders and affiliated entities beneficially own or control securities representing, in the aggregate, at least 48% of our outstanding common stock. These stockholders, if they determine to vote in the same manner, may be able to control the outcome of any matter requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions or terms of any liquidation. In addition certain directors, principal stockholders and affiliated entities beneficially own or control Series A Preferred stock or warrants which are convertible into or exercisable for 2,367,517 additional shares of common stock. The holders of our Series A preferred stock have rights that they could exercise against the best interests. of our common stockholders. The holders of our Series A preferred stock have rights to designate two members of our Board. In addition, upon our liquidation or dissolution (including a merger or acquisition), the holders of our Series A preferred stock are entitled to receive a liquidation preference in an amount equal to the greater of (i) $10,000 per share of Series A preferred stock, or approximately $3.0 million based on the 300 shares of Series A preferred stock currently outstanding, plus any declared but unpaid dividends or (ii) the amount that would have been paid had each such share of Series A preferred stock been converted to common stock. The holders of Series A preferred stock also have a right of first refusal to purchase their pro rata portion of any equity securities we propose to offer to any person. Such right of first refusal is subject to certain customary exclusions, including shares issued pursuant to any options or other stock awards granted to employees, directors or consultants of IntraBiotics, equipment leasing arrangements, debt financings, strategic financings and public offerings that have been approved by the Board. The holders of Series A preferred stock may exercise these rights to the detriment of our common stockholders. The holders of our Series A preferred stock also have the right at any time to request that we register for resale the shares of our common stock that they acquire upon conversion of their Series A preferred stock or upon exercise of their warrants to purchase our common stock, subject to certain limitations. A registration statement has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and is currently effective for the resale of the shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of our Series A preferred stock and upon the exercise of those warrants. In addition, the holders of our Series A preferred stock may convert their Series A preferred stock into common stock and sell those shares of the common stock, acquired upon such conversion, in the public market in reliance upon Rule 144, 3 Table of Contents subject in some cases to volume and other limitations. Future sales in the public market of such common stock, or the perception that such sales might occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law may make it more difficult to acquire us. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions: • provide for a classified board of directors of which approximately one-third of the directors will be elected each year; • allow the authorized number of directors to be changed only by resolution of the Board; • require that stockholder actions must be effected at a duly called stockholder meeting and prohibit stockholder action by written consent; • establish advance notice requirements for nominations to the Board or for proposals that can be acted on at stockholder meetings; • authorize our Board to issue blank check preferred stock to increase the amount of outstanding shares; and limit who may call stockholder meetings. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit large stockholders from consummating a merger with, or acquisition of us. These provisions may prevent a merger or acquisition that would be attractive to stockholders and could limit the price that investors would be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. Our stock price has been, and will be volatile, and the value of your investment may continue to decline. During 2005, our closing stock prices ranged from a low of $3.34, to a high of $4.07, and in 2004 ranged from a low of $3.35 to a high of $19.25. Announcements regarding strategic alternatives, including a merger or sale of the Company, or the securities litigation described in Part I, Item 3, in addition to the other risk factors described in this section, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. We may continue to incur net losses. Our accumulated deficit as of December 31, 2005 was $235.6 million, and we may continue to incur losses through the end of 2006. We reduced operating expenses to a minimum appropriate level while conducting our affairs in the most financially efficient manner practical for a public company and litigating the our securities litigation aggressively. We may not be able to complete the strategic alternative we initially elected to pursue, resulting in increased expenses and a delay in finally completing a selected alternative. We may select a strategic alternative that we may not be able to complete for various reasons, including a decision of our principal stockholders not to approve such alternative, our inability to obtain regulatory approval, actions of other companies or litigation involving the selected alternative or other matters. In addition, the pendency and or resolution of our securities litigation may adversely affect or limit our strategic alternatives, including adversely affecting our financial results or our ability to liquidate, or deterring other companies from entering into a merger or acquisition with us. 4 Table of Contents We face risks associated with clinical trial liability claims in the event that the prior use, or misuse, of our product candidates in clinical trials, that have since been terminated, results in personal injury or death. From the fourth quarter of 2002 until June 2004, we conducted clinical trials focusing on developing iseganan for the prevention of ventilator-associated pneumonia (“VAP”). In June 2004, we discontinued our clinical trial of iseganan for the prevention of VAP following a recommendation of the independent data monitoring committee. We face a risk of clinical trial liability claims in the event that the prior use, or misuse, of our product candidates during such clinical trials results in personal injury or death. Our clinical liability insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover claims that may be made against us. Any claims against us, regardless of their merit, could severely harm our financial condition and strain our management and other resources. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 