Item 1A. Risk Factors Relating to Our Business We face significant technical challenges in completing the development of the Smart Energy Matrix™. We may fail to develop our 25kWh generation flywheel system to a commercial production design, which is a critical requirement for the development of the Smart Energy Matrix™ and, even if we are able to develop the 25kWh system, we may fail to develop the Smart Energy Matrix™. Although we have successfully developed three high-energy flywheel systems (the 2kWh and 6kWh for telecom and the 6kWh for the grid) that had similar technical challenges, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully complete development of the 25kWh system. The successful development of our Smart Energy 25 flywheel system, which will be used in the Smart Energy Matrix™, involves significant technological and cost challenges, including: •Timely development of cost-effective designs for key components of the Smart Energy Matrix™, such as the flywheel hub •Prototype test malfunctions could result in damage to our other equipment and test facility, re-engineering costs and production delays 14 •Development and production delays and/or cost increases may occur if we are unable to establish multiple source suppliers for key components that meet our engineering requirements, cost objectives, and development and production schedules •Development of cost-effective designs on schedule that will meet system performance requirements such as: • A rotor-cooling scheme to avoid overheating during operation • Cost-effective bearings to ensure acceptable vibration levels at all speeds • A balancing scheme that allows fast and efficient balancing of the rotor and shaft • A touchdown bearing system to stabilize the rotor during abnormal conditions such as an earthquake. •Ramping up and maintaining production rates. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in meeting these challenges. In addition, even if we are able to complete development of the new Smart Energy 25 flywheel system, we plan to integrate multiple Smart Energy 25 flywheels into a common facility to produce the Smart Energy Matrix™. This effort will pose significant technological and cost challenges such as: •Designing the control system and interface of the separate flywheels so that they act as an integrated matrix •Meeting the technical requirements for interconnection to the utility grid •Developing a communication system adequate to meet the performance standards of grid managers. Although the market for frequency regulation services is large and growing, we have not demonstrated an ability to sell into that market. We intend to provide frequency regulation services using our Smart Energy Matrix™ in the open-bid auction markets of regional grid operators, such as PJM Interconnection. In order to bid in these markets, one must be qualified to do so. Although our technology has been qualified in three of the five ISOs that we are targeting, and we expect to receive the necessary approvals in the remaining markets, there is no assurance we will be successful. In addition, if regulatory modifications change the structure of the markets, such modifications could adversely affect our business plan. Also, for us to be successful in most of these markets there must be market rule changes made to allow non-generator companies such as ours to compete with current market participants. If the auction market rules change in the future or current modifications being developed as a result of FERC Rule 890 are not implemented, we may be required to change our business plan and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in doing so. Although the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission has mandated that ISOs allow non-generation resources (such as ours) to provide regulation services, each of several ISOs must modify their separate market rules for us to be able to sell our frequency regulation services in each such market. On February 16, 2007 the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission issued Order 890 which, among other things, directed each ISO/RTO to amend its tariff to allow non-generation resources (such as ours) to bid into its frequency regulation market. Currently only PJM is in full compliance with Order 890, with market tariffs in place that will allow us to participate in their markets. NYISO, ISONE, MISO and CAISO still must modify their market rules to allow us to participate and earn revenue in these markets. 15 We are actively engaged both at the FERC and with each ISO on the development of new market rules that would allow our participation. However, the timing of when market rules for each ISO/RTO will be amended to allow our participation is uncertain. There can be no assurance that the amendments to the various tariff structure will occur in a timeframe that will allow us to achieve our business plan or that the revised tariff structure for a particular ISO will result in a market for that ISO that we can participate in on a profitable basis. Although the NYISO has stated that we are able to participate in its market as a non-generator resource, its payment rules may pose financial risks for us that will make participation in that market unlikely. Our technology is fundamentally different than a traditional generator. First and foremost, generators are assumed to be able to provide energy for an unlimited period of time, whereas we can only provide energy to the grid for a limited period of time. In NYISO, generators providing regulation service are also required to bid into the energy market. In order to avoid being called on to provide energy, we must bid in a high energy price. This strategy poses financial risks to us in two ways. First, during times of high energy prices, if we do not bid a high enough energy price, we may become committed to provide more energy than we have stored, and then may have to procure such extra energy on the market, so as to be able to meet our commitment. Second, if we do bid a high enough energy price to insure that we are not selected to provide energy, the NYISO may view our overall bids less favorably, which could limit the number of hours we are selected by NYISO to provide regulation. There can be no assurance that the rules in NYISO will be modified in a timeframe that will allow us to achieve our business plan or that the rules will allow us to have sufficient success in the NYISO bid-market to operate on a profitable basis. Reductions in energy prices may have a material impact on the pricing of frequency regulation services and therefore the profitability of our flywheel systems. The market pricing for frequency regulation services tends to follow the pricing for energy, hence if the price of energy drops, frequency regulation prices could be adversely affected. Our ability to complete commercialization of our Smart Energy Matrix™ will require substantial funds. Our stockholders may be adversely affected if we issue debt securities or additional equity securities to obtain financing. We will require substantial funds to complete research and development activities, market our products and services, deploy our systems, and increase our revenues. We anticipate that such funds will be obtained from external sources and intend to seek additional equity or debt to fund future operations. Although approximately $42.6 million was raised in 2007, we estimate that we will need to raise an additional $20 million during 2008 through the issuance of equity securities in order to complete development of the Smart Energy Matrix™ flywheel system, and to build, operate and receive fees for frequency regulation services and yet have sufficient working capital to continue to execute our business plan. Our business plan includes manufacturing the flywheel systems and building the facilities for a multiple megawatt site in New York and a one to five megawatt facility at either NE ISO or PJM. Beyond 2008 we will continue to have capital needs that will require additional equity or debt, for example, to fund the complete build-out of the NY facility to 20 megawatts. Our actual capital requirements will depend on many factors. The additional funding we require may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. Such additional funding may only be available on terms that may, for example, cause substantial dilution to common stockholders, and/or have liquidation preferences and/or pre-emptive rights. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt securities or additional equity securities, existing stockholders may be adversely affected because new investors may have rights superior to current stockholders and current stockholders may be diluted. 16 If we do not succeed in raising additional funds, we will be unable to complete planned development of our products and services. In addition, we could be forced to take unattractive steps, such as slowing or discontinuing product development, slowing our cost reduction program, limiting the services offered, reducing or foregoing sales and marketing efforts and attractive business opportunities, or discontinuing operations entirely. We expect that it will be several years before we will recognize significant revenues from the products we intend to offer and the services we intend to provide. A large portion of our expenses are fixed, including expenses related to facilities, equipment and key personnel. In addition, we expect to spend significant amounts to fund product development based on our core technologies. We also expect to incur substantial expenses to manufacture our Smart Energy Matrix™ product in the future. As a result, operating expenses may increase significantly over the next several years and, consequently, we will need to generate substantial commercial revenue to achieve profitability. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a consistent basis. We intend to bring our frequency regulation services to market through participation in the energy open-bid auction markets, where on a national basis the amount of frequency regulation required is typically one percent of all power produced. If changes in this percentage occur due to regulatory modifications and are not offset by a proportionate increase in pricing for frequency regulation, our business plan could be adversely affected. The regulatory landscape is in constant flux, and we are aware that a North American Electric Reliability Council (NERC) subcommittee is in the process of developing a new NERC standard that may reduce the amount of frequency regulation required by lowering the ratio of frequency regulation to power generated. There is not yet a consensus on the potential changes to the standard. The new NERC standard may not be adopted as currently proposed, and even if adopted, regional grid operators have the unilateral option under FERC rules to adhere to regional frequency regulation standards that are not less rigorous, and may in fact be more rigorous, than the proposed new standard. Even if a new standard is passed, the belief by such ISOs and other powerful utility stakeholders that such changes could create possible negative impacts on overall grid reliability make it likely that more rigorous standards will continue to be the rule in at least some areas, including California and New England. However, if adopted, the proposed changes potentially could be harmful to us by: a) reducing the amount of frequency regulation required by Independent System Operators in such a way as to reduce the total size of the US frequency regulation market, b) lowering the price of frequency regulation as a consequence of any potential lower demand that might result from a change in regulatory standards, and c) increasing our cost of providing the service. Any combination of these things could adversely impact our ability to access the markets for frequency regulation or to do so in a profitable or sustainable basis. There are market-expanding developments that may partially counterbalance some or all of the above possible changes in the NERC standard. For example, efforts by some states to increase the amount of renewable energy that is produced for the grid from wind and solar power may expand the market for frequency regulation services. From our conversations with grid operators, we believe that the variable changes in energy output caused by natural and constant changes in wind speed and cloud cover will require increased frequency regulation to balance this variability. However, there can be no assurance that these anticipated expansions will occur in a timeframe that will allow us to achieve our business plan or participate in the expanded market on a profitable basis. 17 Our revenue and sales depend upon the achievement of the product development and commercialization milestones set forth in our contracts with third parties. Our future revenues will result from similar milestones related to government contracts and from our commercial applications. These revenues will depend on our ability to deliver flywheel systems with certain performance and dependability attributes. The majority of our revenue is currently derived from contracts with governmental entities in which payments to us are based primarily on achieving certain product development and commercialization milestones as set forth in those contracts. We expect that our future revenue from government sources will similarly be milestone-driven and not of sufficient volume to be a profitable business. On commercial applications for our flywheel systems, our ability to achieve revenues will be dependent on our ability to complete development of our systems, expand our manufacturing capabilities, achieve cost reduction goals, obtain sufficient funds to deploy these systems and participate profitably within the market rules of the open-bid auction markets mentioned above. It is uncertain whether and to what degree we will be able to meet these goals in the future. To the extent we do not meet such goals we expect our revenue to be negatively affected. Our business plan includes the design, development, construction, financing and operation of several frequency regulation power facilities that incorporate our Smart Energy Matrix™ technology in order to provide frequency regulation services. We have no prior experience doing this. Should we fail in any material aspect of these tasks, it is unlikely that we will recognize significant revenue under our current business model. Our business plan calls for the design, development, construction, financing and operation of one or more commercial-level frequency regulation power plants that incorporate our Smart Energy Matrix™ technology. However, we have no experience with such projects at a commercial level, although we have designed, developed, constructed and installed two one-tenth scale demonstration units at existing utility sites on the grid and have operated or are now operating them in demonstration and testing mode. However, we have never done these things commercially, nor ever obtained project financing (although we have experience in equity transactions). We expect that executing these tasks on a commercial level will be complex and challenging and we may not be successful. If we are not successful, then we will not achieve the revenues planned in our business model. We have a history of losses and anticipate future losses and we will have limited revenues in the near term. Unless we raise additional capital to operate our business, we may not be able to continue as a going concern. Even with the cash raised in 2007, our cash balances are sufficient to fund operations only into approximately the fourth quarter of 2008. We have incurred significant losses from operations since our inception. As shown in our consolidated financial statements, we incurred significant losses from operations of approximately $13,620,000, $12,682,000 and $9,448,000 and operating cash decreases of approximately $11,282,000, $8,441,000 and $8,923,000 during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We expect to have positive EBITDA and be cash flow positive by 2010; however, to be successful we will need to raise additional capital in 2008 and 2009. In the event that we are not successful in raising equity or the timing of bringing in additional cash is delayed, we may not be successful. We had approximately $30.4 million in cash and cash equivalents on hand at December 31, 2007. Based on our current cash usage rates and additional expenditures expected in support of our business plan, we estimate that we have adequate cash to fund operations only into the fourth quarter of 2008. We are focused on further development of the Smart Energy Matrix™ to provide frequency regulation services, but this product will not generate significant revenues in the near term. We expect future revenues to come primarily from the sale of services related to the Smart Energy Matrix™ and from possible sales of Smart Energy 25 flywheel units in the future. Other than revenue related to our 18 research and development contracts in the amount of $3.4 million, we have had no revenues to date from our Smart Energy Matrix™. The timing of future revenues is uncertain. Miller Wachman, LLP, our independent auditors, have included an explanatory paragraph related to a going concern uncertainty in their audit report on our consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, which identifies our recurring losses and negative cash flows and raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our financial statements have been prepared on the basis of a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. We have not made any adjustments to our financial statements as a result of the going concern uncertainty. If we cannot continue as a going concern, we may have to liquidate our assets and may receive significantly less than the values at which they are carried on our financial statements. Any shortfall in the proceeds from the liquidation of our assets would directly reduce the amounts that holders of our common stock could receive in liquidation. Increases or decreases in purchase prices or availability of carbon fiber or other materials and commodities may affect our ability to achieve profitability. We use carbon fiber in the manufacture of our flywheel systems. Other applications that require carbon fiber have substantially increased in the last few years. In response to this increased demand, suppliers are adding capacity but shortages and/or price fluctuations may affect our ability to manufacture our flywheel systems in a timely way and at a reasonable cost. Our competitive position could be impaired if we either fail to protect our intellectual property or infringe third-party patent rights. We cannot provide assurance that we have or will be able to maintain a significant proprietary position on the basic technologies used in our flywheel systems. Our ability to compete effectively against alternative technologies will be affected by our ability to protect proprietary technology, systems designs and manufacturing processes. We do not know whether any of our pending or future patent applications under which we have rights will issue, or, in the case of patents issued or to be issued, that the claims allowed are or will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology or processes from competitors. Even if all of our patent applications are issued and are sufficiently broad, they may be challenged or invalidated. We could incur substantial costs in prosecuting or defending patent infringement suits, and such suits would divert funds and resources that could be used in our business. We do not know whether we have been or will be completely successful in safeguarding and maintaining our proprietary rights. Further, our competitors or others may independently develop or patent technologies or processes that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours. If we are found to be infringing on third-party patents, we do not know whether we will be able to obtain licenses to use such patents on acceptable terms, if at all. Failure to obtain needed licenses could delay or prevent the development, manufacture or sale of our systems. See Item 3, "Legal Proceedings", regarding litigation commenced against the Company by a third party, alleging patent infringement. We rely, in part, on contractual provisions to protect trade secrets and proprietary knowledge. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Our trade secrets may also be known without breach of such agreements or may be independently developed by competitors or others. Our inability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology and processes could allow competitors or others to limit or eliminate any competitive advantages we may have. 19 Government regulation may impair our ability to market our products. Government regulation of our products, whether at the federal, state or local level, including any change in regulations or tariffs, product buy downs or tax rebates relating to purchase and installation of our products, may increase the cost and price of our systems, and may have a negative impact on our revenue and profitability. We cannot provide assurance that our products will not be subject to existing or future federal and state regulations governing traditional electric utilities and other regulated entities. We expect that our products and their installation will be subject to oversight and regulation at the local level in accordance with state and local ordinances relating to building codes, safety and related matters. We do not know the extent to which any existing or new regulations may impact our ability to distribute, install and service our products. Once our products reach the commercialization stage, federal, state or local government entities may seek to impose regulations. The exercise of options and warrants and other issuances of shares will likely have a dilutive effect on our stock price. As of December 31, 2007, there were outstanding options to purchase an aggregate of 8,712,488 shares of our common stock at prices ranging from $0.255 per share to $9.31 per share, of which options to purchase 6,766,700 shares were exercisable as of such date. As of December 31, 2007, there were outstanding warrants to purchase 28,891,377 shares of our common stock, of which 11,299,607 were exercisable as of December 31, 2007. The exercise of options and warrants at prices below the market price of our common stock could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Additional dilution may result from the issuance of shares of our capital stock in connection with collaborations or manufacturing arrangements or in connection with other financing efforts. Our financial performance could be adversely affected if we are unable to retain or attract key technical personnel. Our future success also depends to a large degree on the technical skills of our engineering staff and our ability to attract key technical personnel. Competition for skilled technical professionals is intense and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining the talent necessary to design, develop and manufacture our flywheel products. Competitors in the frequency regulation market include established utilities and independent service providers with far greater resources than we have. The frequency regulation services market is being served by well-known utilities and independent service providers that use conventional generators. We will be competing with established generators that have far greater resources than we do. We have anti-takeover defenses that could delay or prevent an acquisition and changes in control that could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws, Rights Agreement and Delaware law may have the effect of deterring unsolicited takeovers or delaying or preventing changes in control of management, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. In addition, these provisions may limit the ability of stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interest. Our certificate of incorporation permits our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval upon such terms as the board of directors may determine. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the 20 holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding common stock. Although we have no present intention of issuing any additional preferred stock, an issuance of a substantial number of preferred shares could adversely affect the price of our common stock. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and our by-laws provide that: •Our directors may only be removed for cause by a majority of the outstanding capital stock entitled to vote in the election of directors •Our stockholders do not have the power to call special meetings of stockholders; and •The provisions relating to the removal of directors and calling of special stockholders meetings may only be amended by a 662/3% vote of the outstanding shares of common stock, voting together as a single class. These provisions make it more difficult for our stockholders to change the composition of the board of directors and approve transactions they may deem to be in their best interests that are not approved by the board of directors. Pursuant to a Rights Agreement, we issued rights as a dividend on common stock on October 7, 2002, each of which entitles the holder to purchase 1/100th of a share of newly issued preferred stock for $22.50 in the event that any person not approved by the board of directors acquires more than 15% of our outstanding common stock, or in the event of an acquisition by another company, $22.50 worth of the common stock of the other company at half its market value (in each case the rights held by the acquiring person are not exercisable and become void). On October 24, 2007, we entered into Amendment No. 3 (the "Amendment") to the Rights Agreement, dated as of September 25, 2002, between the Company and Computershare Trust Company, N.A. (fka Equiserve Trust Company, N.A.), as Rights Agent, as previously amended by Amendment No. 1 dated as of December 27, 2002 and Amendment No. 2 dated as of August 8, 2007 (as amended, the "Rights Agreement"). The Amendment allows The Quercus Trust and persons who are beneficial owners through it to have a beneficial ownership percentage of up to 20% of the Company's Common Stock without triggering the rights under the Rights Agreement. The Amendment also excludes from the beneficial ownership computations used to determine whether a person has become an Acquiring Person (as defined in the Rights Agreement) those securities that might otherwise be acquired by exercising a warrant but for a limitation in such warrant or elsewhere that prevents such exercise to the extent it would cause such person to become an Acquiring Person. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 