ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. The following risk factors, among others, could cause our financial performance to differ significantly from the goals, plans, objectives, intentions, beliefs, and expectations expressed in this report. If any of the following risks and uncertainties or other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or not currently considered to be material actually occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could be harmed substantially. We will need to secure additional financing and if we are unable to secure adequate funds on terms acceptable to us, we will be unable to support our business requirements, build our business or continue as a going concern. At December 31, 2009, we had approximately $42,000 in cash and cash equivalents and $11.3 million in restricted cash and marketable securities. As such, our cash balances are not sufficient to satisfy our anticipated cash requirements for normal operations and capital expenditures for the foreseeable future. Our operating activities used approximately $23.5 million of cash for the year ended December 31, 2009 and approximately $22.9 million of cash during the year ended December 31, 2008. We have incurred substantial losses since inception and we are not operating at cash breakeven. Obligations that may exert further pressure on our liquidity situation include the obligation to repay remaining amounts borrowed under our Line of Credit, which are due in July 2010, unless the remaining Line of Credit lender exercises his option to require repayment at any time starting up to the maturity date. From time to time, we have raised additional capital through the sale of equity and equity-related securities. Most recently, on February 3, 2010, we completed the sale of $5.0 million convertible of Series A-1 Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock (the “Preferred Stock”) to Fletcher International, Ltd. (“Fletcher”), an affiliate of Fletcher Asset Management, Inc. Our proceeds from the sale of the convertible preferred stock were approximately $4.7 million, after deducting underwriters’ fees, legal fees and expenses. Our continuation as a going concern is dependent on efforts to secure additional funding, increase revenues, reduce expenses, and ultimately achieve profitable operations. The current economic environment will make it challenging for us to access the funds that we need, on terms acceptable to us, to successfully pursue our development plans and operations. The cost of raising capital in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially while the availability of funds from those markets generally has diminished significantly. If we are 41 Table of Contents unable to raise sufficient, additional capital on reasonable terms, we may be unable to satisfy our existing obligations, or to execute our plans. In such case, we would be required to curtail or cease operations, liquidate or sell assets, modify our current plans for plant construction, well field development or other development activities, or pursue other actions that would adversely affect future operations. Further, reduction of expenditures could have a negative impact on our business. A reduction of expenditures would make it more difficult for us to execute our plans to develop geothermal power plants in accordance with our expectations. It would also make it more difficult for us to conduct adequate research and development and other activities necessary to commercialize our Symetron™ technologies. In order to execute our business strategy and continue our business operations, we will need to secure additional funding from other sources through the issuance of debt, preferred stock, equity or a combination of these instruments. We may also seek to obtain financing through a joint venture, the sale of one or more of our projects or interests therein, entry into pre-paid power purchase agreements with utilities or municipalities, a merger and/or other transaction, a consequence of which could include the sale or issuance of stock to third parties. We cannot be certain that funding that we seek from any of these sources will be available on reasonable terms or at all. If we raise additional capital through the issuance of equity or securities convertible into equity, our stockholders may experience dilution. Any new securities we issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the holders of our common stock, such as dividend rights or anti-dilution protections. We have previously issued warrants to acquire our common stock in connection with certain transactions. Some of these warrants continue to be outstanding and contain anti-dilution provisions. Pursuant to these anti-dilution provisions, the exercise price of the applicable warrants will be adjusted if we issue equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities at a price lower than the exercise price of the applicable warrants. We may also seek to secure additional financing by incurring indebtedness. However, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally, and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets generally has increased as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt at maturity on terms that are similar to existing debt, and reduced, or in some cases ceased, to provide funding to borrowers. In addition, any indebtedness we incur could constrict our liquidity, result in substantial cash outflows, and adversely affect our financial health and ability to obtain financing in the future. Any such debt would likely contain restrictive covenants that may impair our ability to obtain future additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate or other purposes, and a substantial portion of cash flows, if any, from our operations may be dedicated to interest payments and debt repayment, thereby reducing the funds available to us for other purposes. Any failure by us to satisfy our obligations with respect to these potential debt obligations would likely constitute a default under such credit facilities. Financing needed to develop geothermal power projects may be unavailable. A substantial capital investment will be necessary to develop each geothermal power project our Power Systems segment seeks to develop. Our continued access to capital through project financing or other arrangements is necessary for us to complete the geothermal power projects we plan to develop. We have had difficulty raising the capital we need in the current economic environment, and our future attempts to secure capital on acceptable terms may not be successful. Market conditions and other factors may not permit us to obtain financing for geothermal projects on terms favorable to us. Our ability to arrange for financing on a substantially non-recourse or limited recourse basis, and the costs of such financing, are dependent on numerous factors, including general economic and capital market conditions, credit availability from banks, investor confidence, the success of our projects, the credit quality of the projects being financed, the political situation in the state in which the project is located and the continued existence of tax and securities laws which are conducive to raising capital. If we are not able to obtain financing 42 Table of Contents for our projects on a substantially non-recourse or limited recourse basis, or if we are unable to secure capital through partnership or other arrangements, we may have to finance the projects using recourse capital such as direct equity investments, which would have a dilutive effect on our common stock. Also, in the absence of favorable financing or other capital options, we may decide not to pursue certain projects. Any of these alternatives could have a material adverse effect on our growth prospects and financial condition. In addition, the tax benefits originating from geothermal power projects are anticipated to provide a significant portion of the funding of the geothermal projects. This tax equity has traditionally been driven by the tax liability of the major financial industry companies. Many of these companies are currently experiencing significantly reduced income or incurring substantial losses. As a result, they are seeking fewer tax-advantaged investments and this may reduce the amount of readily available tax credit equity available for our geothermal projects or reduce the amount of tax equity that can be obtained as these investors seek higher rates of return for the tax equity they invest. The United States Congress recently passed the Recovery Act that was subsequently signed into law by President Obama. The Recovery Act provides certain economic incentives, such as clean energy grants, that are designed to provide developers of geothermal and other clean energy projects with cash to help fund the projects. These incentives are designed, in part, to address some of the current problems in the tax equity markets and provide an alternative funding mechanism. Accordingly, part of our short-term strategy to obtain additional funding includes applications for loan guarantees and government grants. In February of 2010, we received a grant from the U.S. Treasury under the Recovery Act totaling $33.0 million. Approximately $3.8 million will be used by us. The remaining proceeds received from the Grant will be placed into an escrow account and paid out in the following order on or about June 30, 2010; (i) first Prudential will potentially receive a pre-payment, together with a pre-payment penalty, of its outstanding debt, depending on the performance of the Project at the time; (ii) the project escrow accounts will be funded as required by the Thermo Financing Agreements; (iii) Merrill Lynch will receive its Redemption Amount (either $17.5 million or $20.0 million, subject to certain conditions); (iv) Pratt & Whitney Power Systems will receive any amounts left owing to it as the turbine supplier for the Project; and (v) any remaining amounts will be placed in a revenue escrow account and will ultimately flow through as a distribution to us. One of our applications for loan guarantees was denied and we were not awarded small grants for three projects that we applied for in connection with certain exploration activities. We cannot predict whether we will be able to successfully obtain additional grants or loan guarantees under these new government programs. Although we are seeking loan guarantees and grants from the government, we will still need to obtain financing from other sources for the development of our projects. Many of our projects will require funding for early-stage development activities, such as drilling, as well as more traditional project financing for the construction of the power plant. We recently terminated our Commitment Letter with Merrill Lynch to finance up to 155 MW of future projects. The Commitment Letter was terminated as part of an overall restructuring of the project finance and tax equity agreements for the Thermo No. 1 plant. We are currently seeking other financing arrangements to fund the development of additional projects. Early-stage development activities, such as drilling at potential project sites, preliminary engineering, permitting, legal fees and other expenses can be difficult to finance. Project financing is not typically available for these preliminary activities. As a result, we have generally had to fund these activities out of funds available for general corporate purposes. On December 7, 2009, we entered into the Co-Development Agreement with Evergreen, which could provide an alternative source of funding for drilling or other early-stage development activities at certain projects. Evergreen’s funding obligations with respect to each site selected for development are subject to the satisfaction of a number of conditions, including satisfactory due diligence, the completion of 43 Table of Contents certain milestones, the granting of a security interest, and the negotiation of definitive agreements relating to the financing of each project. Under the terms of the Co-Development Agreement, Evergreen would receive warrants to purchase shares of our common stock in connection with the funding of each project selected for development. The total amount of warrants to be issued will be dependent upon the amount of funding provided. Evergreen is a newly formed clean-energy fund in the process of raising capital for its first investments in renewable energy projects. Evergreen has informed us that it is in discussions with institutional investors interested in making capital commitments to Evergreen. In connection with these discussions, we have provided diligence materials to Evergreen and Evergreen’s potential investors relating to our Thermo and Lightning Dock projects. The ability of Evergreen to perform its obligations and provide funding for one or more of our projects under the Co-Development Agreement is dependent upon Evergreen’s ability to obtain sufficient capital commitments from investors. Evergreen’s efforts to raise the funds it is seeking are beyond our control, and we cannot predict whether Evergreen will be able to successfully raise sufficient capital to fund one or more of our projects. The terms of our outstanding preferred stock and certain other rights we have granted security holders may make it more difficult for us to sell additional securities. Certain terms and conditions included in securities that we have sold, or rights granted to purchasers of securities we have sold, may make it more difficult for us to negotiate and complete sales of our securities in the future. The terms of our outstanding securities could also require us to issue additional shares to purchasers of securities we have sold, or adjust the price of outstanding warrants to purchase our common stock. The terms of our outstanding Preferred Stock provide that each share of Preferred Stock is entitled to a quarterly dividend, payable in cash or shares of our common stock at an annual rate equal to the 3-month London Interbank Rate (“LIBOR”) plus 8%, but in no event higher than 14%. The terms of the Preferred Stock restrict our ability to pay dividends to our common stockholders unless we are current in our dividend obligations to the Preferred Stock and any dividend payment to our common stockholders is made equally to the holders of the Preferred Stock as if such holders had converted or redeemed their Preferred Stock for shares of our common stock. In addition, the holders of the Preferred Stock may redeem the shares of Preferred Stock at the earlier of July 28, 2010 or the date on which the price of our common stock exceeds $2.00 per share, or the date of a public announcement of the intention or agreement to engage in a transaction or series of transactions that may result in a change of control. The preferential dividend and redemption rights of the Preferred Stock may make investments in our securities less attractive to potential investors. The holders of the Preferred Stock are also entitled to voting rights that require the majority vote of the outstanding Preferred Stock prior to making certain amendments or changes to our certificate of incorporation or bylaws, including the terms of the Preferred Stock. A majority vote of the Preferred Stock is also required prior to any future issuance of our securities, subject to certain exceptions, including an exception that allows us to issue up to $25 million of our securities as long as we have given the holders of the Preferred Stock the exclusive right to purchase such securities prior to their issuance. We cannot predict whether we will be able to obtain any approvals required by these voting requirements, and the uncertainties associated with these voting requirements could adversely affect our ability to negotiate with potential investors. In connection with an offering of securities that we completed in July 2009, we granted the purchasers of those securities the right, subject to certain exceptions, to participate in any future equity financing by us prior to December 30, 2010. The participation right allows the investors to purchase up to 35% of any equity securities we offer. These participation rights may make investments in our securities less attractive to potential investors and could adversely affect our ability to negotiate with potential investors. Outstanding warrants to purchase 7,012,632 shares of our common stock contain an exercise price reset feature that may be triggered upon certain events, such as the issuance of shares of common stock at a price 44 Table of Contents below the maximum warrant exercise price. If triggered, the exercise price reset feature results in a downward adjustment to the maximum warrant exercise price to an amount equal to the average of the then current maximum exercise price and the lowest price at which shares of our common stock are issued on the date when the event occurred. Other outstanding warrants to purchase 1,350,000 shares of our common stock provide for anti-dilution protection, which adjusts the exercise price of each warrant, from time to time upon the occurrence of certain events, including the issuance of shares of common stock at a price lower than the exercise price, stock splits, dividends, recapitalizations and similar events. These price adjustment provisions may result in dilution to potential investors, which could make investments in our securities less attractive to potential investors, and could adversely affect our ability to negotiate with potential investors. We have agreed to issue additional shares to one institutional investor, Fletcher, if, prior to any exercise of warrants by Fletcher that we issued in 2008, we announce the sale of additional equity securities. The issuance of additional shares to Fletcher pursuant to this agreement may result in dilution to potential investors, which could make investments in our securities less attractive to potential investors, and could adversely affect our ability to negotiate with potential investors. The geothermal power production development activities of our Power Systems segment may not be successful. We are devoting a substantial amount of our available resources to the power production development activities of our Power Systems segment. To date, we have placed one geothermal power plant in service, and we continue our efforts to ramp up production of that plant. However, our ability to successfully complete that plant and develop additional projects is uncertain. In connection with our first power plant, Thermo No. 1, we have experienced unexpected difficulties and delays in developing a well field that will produce sufficient heat to operate the plant at full capacity. While we have gained valuable experience that could benefit future projects, we could experience similar unexpected difficulties at future projects, which could adversely affect the economics of those projects. As a result, we cannot be certain that we will be able to operate any of our plants at full capacity on an economic basis. Our success in developing a particular geothermal project is contingent upon, among other things, locating and developing a viable geothermal site, negotiation of satisfactory engineering, procurement and construction agreements, negotiation of satisfactory power purchase agreements, receipt of required governmental permits, obtaining interconnection rights, obtaining transmission service rights, obtaining adequate financing, and the timely implementation and satisfactory completion of construction. We may be unsuccessful in accomplishing any of these necessary requirements or doing so on a timely basis. We have limited operating experience and revenue, and we are not currently profitable. We expect to continue to incur net losses for the foreseeable future, and we may never achieve or maintain profitability. We have a limited operating history and, from our inception, we have earned limited revenue from operations. We have incurred significant net losses in each year of our operations, including a net loss applicable to common stockholders of approximately $20.2 million and $45.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. As a result of ongoing operating losses, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $109.7 million on cumulative revenues from inception of approximately $3.2 million as of December 31, 2009. In addition, at December 31, 2009, we had negative working capital totaling $6.4 million. Under our current growth plan, we do not expect that our revenues and cash flows will be sufficient to cover our expenses unless we are able to successfully place a number of power plants in service. As a result, we expect to continue to incur substantial losses until we are able to generate significant revenues. Our ability to generate significant revenues and become profitable will depend on many factors, including our ability to: • secure adequate capital; • identify and secure productive geothermal sites; 45 Table of Contents • verify that the properties in which we have acquired an interest contain geothermal resources that are sufficient to generate electricity; • acquire electrical transmission and interconnection rights for geothermal plants we intend to develop; • enter into power purchase agreements for the sale of electrical power from the geothermal power plants we intend to develop at prices that support our operating and financing costs; • enter into additional tax equity partner agreements with potential financing partners that will provide for the allocation of tax benefits to them and for the contribution of capital by them to our projects or to successfully utilize new incentive provisions being implemented by the United States government; • finance and complete the development of multiple geothermal power plants; • manage construction, drilling and operating costs associated with our geothermal power projects; • successfully license commercial applications of our motor, generator and drive technologies; • enforce and protect our intellectual property while avoiding infringement claims; • comply with applicable governmental regulations; and • attract and retain qualified personnel. Our independent registered public accounting firm’s report on our 2009 financial statements questions our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm’s report on our financial statements as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 and for the three year period ended December 31, 2009 expresses doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Their report includes an explanatory paragraph stating that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern due to the lack of sufficient capital, as of the date their report was issued, to support our business plan through the end of 2010. We will need to secure additional financing in the future and if we are unable to secure adequate funds on terms acceptable to us, we will be unable to support our business requirements, build our business or continue as a going concern. Accordingly, we can offer no assurance that the actions we plan to take to address these conditions will be successful. Inclusion of a “going concern qualification” in the report of our independent accountants or any future report may have a negative impact on our ability to obtain financing and may adversely impact our stock price. The current worldwide political and economic conditions, specifically disruptions in the capital and credit markets, may materially and adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition. Recently, general worldwide economic conditions have experienced a downturn due to the credit conditions resulting from the subprime-mortgage turmoil and other factors, slower economic activity, concerns about inflation and deflation, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, recent international conflicts, recent terrorist and military activity, and the impact of natural disasters and public health emergencies. If the current market conditions continue or worsen, our business, operations and financial condition will likely be materially and adversely affected. The United States credit and capital markets have become increasingly volatile as a result of adverse conditions that have caused the failure and near failure of a number of large financial services companies. If the capital and credit markets continue to experience volatility and the availability of funds remains limited, our ability to obtain needed financing on favorable terms could be severely limited. In the current environment, lenders may seek more restrictive lending provisions and higher interest rates that may reduce our ability to obtain financing and increase our costs. Also, lenders may simply be unwilling or unable to provide financing. 46 Table of Contents Longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to capital needed for our operations and development plans. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing, we could be forced to reduce, delay or cancel planned capital expenditures, sell assets or seek additional equity capital, or pursue other actions that could adversely affect future operations. Failure to obtain sufficient financing or a reduction of expenditures may cause delays and make it more difficult to execute our plans to develop geothermal power plants in accordance with our expectations. It would also make it more difficult to conduct adequate research and development and other activities necessary to commercialize our Symetron™ technologies. The market price for our common stock has experienced significant price and volume volatility and is likely to continue to experience significant volatility in the future. Such volatility may cause investors to experience dramatic declines in our stock price from time to time, may impair our ability to secure additional financing and may otherwise harm our business. The closing price of our common stock declined significantly during 2009. The closing price fluctuated from a low of $0.89 per share to a high of $4.71 per share during the period from January 1, 2009 to March 12, 2010. Our stock price is likely to experience significant volatility in the future as a result of numerous factors outside of our control, including the level of short sale transactions. As a result, the market price of our stock may not reflect our intrinsic value. In addition, following periods of volatility in our stock price, there may be increased risk that securities litigation, governmental investigations or enforcement proceedings may be instituted against us. Any such litigation, and investigation or other procedures, regardless of merits, could materially harm our business and cause our stock price to decline due to potential diversion of management attention and harm to our business reputation. In addition, if the market price for our common stock remains below $5.00 per share, our common stock may be deemed to be a penny stock, and therefore subject to rules that impose additional sales practices on broker-dealers who sell our securities. For example, broker-dealers must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to sale. Also, a disclosure schedule must be delivered to each purchaser of a penny stock, disclosing sales commissions and current quotations for the securities. Monthly statements are also required to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. Because of these additional conditions, some brokers may choose to not effect transactions in penny stocks. This could have an adverse effect on the liquidity of our common stock. The volatility in our stock price could impair our ability to raise additional capital. Further, to the extent we do raise additional funds through equity financing, we may need to issue such equity at a substantial discount to the market price for our stock. This, in turn, could contribute to the volatility in our stock price. In addition, in connection with future equity financing transactions, we may be required to issue additional shares of stock to investors who purchased securities from us in prior transactions, and future equity financings may result in adjustments to the exercise price of our outstanding warrants. These factors could also contribute to volatility in our stock price. The financial performance of our Power Systems segment is subject to changes in the legal and regulatory environment. Our geothermal power projects will be subject to extensive regulation. Changes in applicable laws or regulations, or interpretations of those laws and regulations, could result in increased compliance costs and require additional capital expenditures. Future changes could also reduce or eliminate certain benefits that are currently available. Federal and state energy regulation is subject to frequent challenges, modifications, the imposition of additional regulatory requirements, and restructuring proposals. We may not be able to obtain or maintain all 47 Table of Contents regulatory approvals or modifications to existing regulatory approvals that may be required in the future. In addition, the cost of operation and maintenance and the financial performance of geothermal power plants may be adversely affected by changes in certain laws and regulations, including tax laws. In order to promote the production of renewable energy, including geothermal energy, the federal government has created several significant tax incentives. These tax incentives are instrumental to our ability to finance and develop geothermal power plants by providing increased economic benefits. If the available tax incentives were reduced or eliminated, the economics of the projects would be adversely affected and there could be reductions in our overall profitability or the amount of funding available from tax equity partners. Some projects may not be viable without these tax incentives. Available federal tax incentives include deductibility of intangible drilling costs, accelerated depreciation, depletion allowances and the ITC, all of which currently are permanent features of the Internal Revenue Code with respect to geothermal power projects. In addition, the Recovery Act extended the availability of the PTC, for geothermal projects placed in service before 2014 and created a new grant program for geothermal projects that are placed in service in 2009 or 2010, regardless of when construction begins, or for which construction begins in 2009 or 2010 and which are placed in service before 2014. The ITC is claimed in the year in which the qualified project is placed in service, and the amount of the credit is a specified percentage (10% or 30%) of the eligible costs of the facility. All or some of the ITC is subject to recapture if the property eligible for the credit is sold or otherwise disposed, or ceases to be eligible property, within five years after being placed in service. In lieu of claiming the ITC, a project owner generally can claim the PTC during the first ten years after the project is placed in service. The amount of the PTC is adjusted for inflation. For 2009, the amount was $21.00 per megawatt hour of electricity produced from the facility and sold to unrelated parties. As extended by the Recovery Act, the PTC applies to Qualifying Facilities that are placed in service before 2014. The amount of the PTC also is subject to phase-out if the national average price of electricity produced from qualified energy resources exceeds an inflation adjusted threshold. In addition, pursuant to the Recovery Act, an owner may elect to receive a grant from the U.S. Treasury Department in lieu of claiming either the ITC or the PTC. For a geothermal project, the amount of the grant is 30% of the cost of qualifying geothermal property placed in service in 2009 or 2010, or placed in service before 2014 if construction begins in 2009 or 2010. Grants are to be paid 60 days after the date the U.S. Treasury Department deems the application is properly submitted and complete. All or some of the grant is subject to recapture if the property eligible for the grant is sold or otherwise disposed, or ceases to be eligible property within, five years after being placed in service. None of the grant should be included in federal taxable income, but may be included in applicable state taxable income. Owners of projects also are permitted to depreciate for tax purposes most of the cost of the power plant on an accelerated basis, generally, over a five-year period. If an owner elects to receive a grant from the U.S. Treasury Department in lieu of claiming either the ITC or PTC, or if the owner elects to receive the ITC, the basis of the property for depreciation purposes is reduced by an amount equal to 50 percent of the grant or ITC, whichever is applicable. All of these programs are subject to review and change by Congress from time to time. For example, recent legislation has been introduced to remove equipment sourced outside of the United States from the eligible basis used in calculating the Section 1603 grant. In addition, several of the programs are currently scheduled to expire, and continuation of those incentives will require affirmative Congressional action. Moreover, there are ambiguities as to how some of the provisions of the Recovery Act will operate. Many of the tax incentives associated with geothermal power projects generally are beneficial only if the owners of the project have sufficient taxable income to utilize the tax incentives. Due to the nature and timing of these tax incentives, it is likely that the tax incentives available in connection with our geothermal power plants 48 Table of Contents (other than the grant in lieu of the ITC and PTC) will exceed our ability to efficiently utilize these tax benefits for at least several years of operations. Therefore, an important part of our strategy involves partnering with investors that are able to utilize the tax incentives to offset taxable income associated with their operations unrelated to our geothermal power plants. For example, a corporation in an unrelated industry may be willing to finance the development of a geothermal power plant in exchange for receiving the benefit of the tax incentives, which it could then use to reduce the tax liability associated with its regular operations. Tax reform has the potential to have a material effect on our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. Tax reform could reduce or eliminate the value of the tax subsidies currently available to geothermal projects. Any restrictions or tightening of the rules for lease or partnership transactions, whether or not part of major tax reform, could also materially affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. In addition, changes to the Internal Revenue Code could significantly increase the regulatory-related compliance and other expenses incurred by geothermal projects which, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. Any such changes could also make it more difficult for us to obtain financing for future projects. A significant part of our business strategy is to utilize the tax and other incentives available to developers of geothermal power generating plants to attract strategic alliance partners with the capital sufficient to complete these projects. Many of the incentives available for these projects are new and highly complex. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in structuring agreements that are attractive to potential strategic alliance partners. If we are unable to do so, we may be unable to complete the development of our geothermal power projects and our business could be harmed. The exploration, development, and operation of geothermal energy resources by our Power Systems segment is subject to geological risks and uncertainties, which may result in decreased performance, increased costs, or abandonment of our projects. Our Power Systems segment is involved in the exploration, development and operation of geothermal energy resources. These activities are subject to uncertainties, which vary among different geothermal resources. These uncertainties include dry holes, flow-constrained wells, wells that become obstructed during drilling, uncontrolled releases of pressure and temperature decline, and other factors, all of which can increase our operating costs and capital expenditures or reduce the efficiency of our power plants. In addition, the high temperature and high pressure in geothermal energy resources requires special resource management and monitoring. Because geothermal resources are complex geological structures, we can only estimate their geographic area. The viability of geothermal projects depends on different factors directly related to the geothermal resource, such as the heat content (the relevant composition of temperature and pressure) flow of the geothermal resource, the useful life (commercially exploitable life) of the resource and operational factors relating to the extraction of geothermal fluids. Although we believe our geothermal resources will be fully renewable if managed appropriately, the geothermal resources we intend to exploit may not be sufficient for sustained generation of the anticipated electrical power capacity over time. Further, any of our geothermal resources may suffer an unexpected decline in capacity. In addition, we may fail to find commercially viable geothermal resources in the expected quantities and temperatures, which would adversely affect our development of geothermal power projects. The operation of geothermal power plants depends on the continued availability of adequate geothermal resources. Although we believe our geothermal resources will be fully renewable if managed properly, we cannot be certain that any geothermal resource will remain adequate for the life of a geothermal power plant. If the geothermal resources available to a power plant we develop become inadequate, we may be unable to perform under the power purchase agreement for the affected power plant, which in turn could reduce our revenues and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. If we suffer degradation in our geothermal resources, our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover losses sustained as a result thereof. 49 Table of Contents Our ability to operate a geothermal plant at full capacity depends significantly on the characteristics of the production wells we drill to use for the plant. The wells need to provide sufficient heat at flow rates that can be maintained without a significant increase in the parasitic load associated with the plant. The parasitic load refers to the amount of electricity used by the plant and well field to maintain operations. A significant portion of the parasitic load results from pumps and other equipment used to maintain the flow of geothermal water from the earth through the plant and back into the earth through reinjection wells. Generally, water with a higher temperature will allow the plant to operate with a slower rate of flow, which results in a decrease in the parasitic load because less electricity is required to maintain the necessary flow rate. Water with lower temperatures, on the other hand, requires a higher flow rate to operate the plant, which increases the parasitic load. Unless the water produced by a well is hot enough to increase the amount of power generated by the plant without a corresponding increase to the parasitic load, the well will not result in a net increase in the amount of power available for sale from the plant. Therefore, the overall temperature of the water produced by the production wells is critical to our ability to operate the plant at full capacity. Similarly, a deeper resource increases parasitic load because the pumps have to lift the water a greater distance. We cannot be certain whether wells will increase net production at a plant until the wells are brought online and the impact to the parasitic load at the plant has been determined. We have experienced certain delays and cost overruns on the Thermo No. 1 plant, and we may experience similar delays and cost overruns on subsequent projects. We completed major construction of the cooling towers and transmission lines and installed the power generating units at the Thermo No. 1 plant in the fourth quarter of 2008. We completed the commissioning of the plant in the first quarter of 2009. In April 2009, we began selling electricity generated by the Thermo No. 1 plant to the City of Anaheim pursuant to a power purchase agreement we previously entered into with Anaheim. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we delivered 25,200 MW hours of electricity to the City of Anaheim. The Thermo No. 1 plant is currently transmitting approximately 6 MW of electricity to the City of Anaheim, which represents approximately half of the plant’s designed capacity. Thus far, we have been unable to operate the plant at full capacity due to insufficient heat and flow from the production wells that provide geothermal water to the plant. In the fall of 2009 we undertook a comprehensive review of the plant and well field operations at the Thermo No. 1 plant and, together with outside experts and our financing partners, developed a plan for increasing the output of the Thermo No. 1 plant. The key component of this plan was to re-work certain wells in order to eliminate down flow of a shallower, cooler zone of geothermal fluids which was mixing with the deeper, hotter zones. In general, this cooler zone contains geothermal fluids in the range of 200 Fahrenheit, while the deeper zone contains temperatures greater than 300 Fahrenheit. We believe that well field work and optimization of certain operations at the plant, have the potential to significantly increase the net power production from the plant during 2010. However, we have not completed all of the necessary drilling, stimulation work and testing, and we cannot be certain the additional modifications to the well field will allow us to operate the Thermo No. 1 plant at full capacity. The Thermo No. 1 plant is the first ever large-scale commercial application of the PWPS Pure-Cycle units and the first plant built under our rapid-deployment approach so delays and overruns are not entirely unexpected. Some of the key drivers of the delays and cost overruns are as follows: Well Field Development: • Increased costs to broaden previous well field plans. • Complications encountered by drilling contractors. • High demand for drilling services and related materials due to the rapid increase in the price of oil. • Higher than expected loads for well field pumps. 50 Table of Contents Construction: • Wider than necessary step-outs for injection wells, which increased piping and electrical costs, due to concerns of lenders. • Construction of primary access road improvements to accommodate wider access to Thermo No. 1 than previously anticipated. • Additional costs incurred to connect piping from additional production wells to the plant. • Additional costs incurred relating to establishing the greater Thermo area. • Increased prices for steel, concrete and other commodities due to high demand. • Payment of overtime and other additional costs in order to accelerate the construction schedule. Equipment: • Expenses associated with installing PWPS power generating units for the first time, which allowed us to identify design changes for the benefit of future plants. Transmission: • In anticipation of future plants, we built a larger transmission infrastructure. If we are unable to find adequate solutions for the problems we are encountering with the construction and operation of the Thermo No. 1 plant, we may experience similar delays and cost overruns on subsequent projects. Our Power Systems segment operations may be materially adversely affected if we fail to properly manage and maintain our geothermal resources. Our geothermal power plants use geothermal resources to generate electricity. When we develop a geothermal power plant, we conduct hydrologic and geologic studies. Based on these studies, we consider all of the geothermal resources used in our power plants to be fully renewable. Unless additional hydrologic and geologic studies confirm otherwise, there are a number of events that could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate electricity from a geothermal resource and/or shorten the operational duration of a geothermal resource, which could cause the applicable geothermal resource to become a non-renewable wasting asset. These events include: • Any increase in power generation above the amount our hydrological and geological studies indicate that the applicable geothermal resource will support; • Failure to recycle all of the geothermal fluids used in connection with the applicable geothermal resource; and • Failure to properly maintain the hydrological balance of the applicable geothermal resource. While we intend to properly manage and maintain our geothermal resources in order to ensure that they are fully renewable, our ability to do so could be subject to unforeseen risks and uncertainties beyond our control. Our Power Systems segment may be materially adversely affected if we are unable to successfully utilize certain heat transfer technologies in our geothermal power projects. Our Power Systems segment intends to utilize certain heat transfer technologies in its geothermal power projects. One of the providers of these heat transfer technologies is PWPS. PWPS’s heat transfer technologies are designed to enable the generation of power from geothermal resources that are lower in temperature than those resources used in traditional flash steam geothermal projects. 51 Table of Contents PWPS’s heat transfer technologies have a limited operating history and have only been deployed in a limited number of geothermal power projects. Although we are using these technologies in our Thermo No. 1 plant, that power plant has only been operating for a short time. As a result, we cannot be certain that PWPS’s heat transfer technologies or other vendors’ heat transfer technologies can be successfully implemented. If we are not able to successfully utilize heat transfer technologies in our geothermal power projects and we are unable to utilize appropriate substitute technologies, we may be unable to develop our projects and our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. The costs of compliance with environmental laws and of obtaining and maintaining environmental permits and governmental approvals required for construction and/or operation of geothermal power plants are substantial, and any non-compliance with such laws or regulations may result in the imposition of liabilities, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. Our geothermal power projects are required to comply with numerous federal, regional, state and local statutory and regulatory environmental standards. Geothermal projects must also maintain numerous environmental permits and governmental approvals required for construction and/or operation. Environmental permits and governmental approvals typically contain conditions and restrictions, including restrictions or limits on emissions and discharges of pollutants and contaminants, or may have limited terms. If we fail to satisfy these conditions or comply with these restrictions, or we fail to comply with any statutory or regulatory environmental standards, we may become subject to a regulatory enforcement action and the operation of the projects could be adversely affected or be subject to fines, penalties or additional costs. The geothermal power projects developed by our Power Systems segment could expose us to significant liability for violations of hazardous substances laws because of the use or presence of such substances. The geothermal power projects developed by our Power Systems segment will be subject to numerous federal, regional, state and local statutory and regulatory standards relating to the use, storage and disposal of hazardous substances. We may use industrial lubricants, water treatment chemicals and other substances at our projects that could be classified as hazardous substances. If any hazardous substances are found to have been released into the environment at or near the projects, we could become liable for the investigation and removal of those substances, regardless of their source and time of release. If we fail to comply with these laws, ordinances or regulations or any change thereto, we could be subject to civil or criminal liability, the imposition of liens or fines, and large expenditures to bring the projects into compliance. Furthermore, we can be held liable for the cleanup of releases of hazardous substances at other locations where we arranged for disposal of those substances, even if we did not cause the release at that location. The cost of any remediation activities in connection with a spill or other release of such substances could be significant. In order to finance the development of our geothermal power projects, we may transfer a portion of our equity interest in the individual projects to a third party and enter into long-term fixed price power purchase agreements. Under generally accepted accounting principles, this may result in the deconsolidation of these subsidiaries, and the reflection of only our net ownership interests in our financial statements. Each of the geothermal power projects our Power Systems segment develops will likely be owned by a separate subsidiary. The geothermal power projects developed by these subsidiaries will likely be separately financed. To obtain the financing necessary to develop the geothermal power projects, we may transfer a portion of our equity interest in the individual subsidiaries to a third party and enter into long-term fixed price power purchase agreements. Depending upon the nature of these arrangements and the application of generally accepted accounting principles, we may be required to deconsolidate one or more or all of these subsidiaries, which would result in our share of the net profits or loss generated by the deconsolidated entities being presented as a net amount in our financial statements. As a result, our financial statements would not reflect the gross revenues and expenses of the deconsolidated entities. However, we do not expect the effect of such deconsolidation, if required, to have an impact on our stockholders’ equity (deficit), net income/loss or earnings/loss per share. 52 Table of Contents Our foreign projects expose us to risks related to the application of foreign laws, taxes, economic conditions, labor supply and relations, political conditions, and policies of foreign governments, any of which risks may delay or reduce our ability to profit from such projects. We have accumulated a large portfolio of geothermal interests in four western continental states and a geothermal concession in Indonesia. These geothermal interests are important to our ability to develop geothermal power plants. We continue to accumulate additional interests in geothermal resources for potential future projects. Our foreign operations are subject to regulation by various foreign governments and regulatory authorities and are subject to the application of foreign laws. Such foreign laws or regulations may not provide for the same type of legal certainty and rights, in connection with our contractual relationships in such countries, as are afforded to our projects in the United States, which may adversely affect our ability to receive revenues or enforce our rights in connection with our foreign operations. Furthermore, existing laws or regulations may be amended or repealed, and new laws or regulations may be enacted or issued. In addition, the laws and regulations of some countries may limit our ability to hold a majority interest in some of the projects that we may develop or acquire, thus limiting our ability to control the development, construction and operation of such projects. Our foreign operations are also subject to significant political, economic and financial risks, which vary by country, and include: • changes in government policies or personnel; • changes in general economic conditions; • restrictions on currency transfer or convertibility; • changes in labor relations; • political instability and civil unrest; • changes in the local electricity market; • breach or repudiation of important contractual undertakings by governmental entities; and • expropriation and confiscation of assets and facilities. Our foreign projects may expose us to risks related to fluctuations in currency rates, which may reduce our profits from such projects. Risks attributable to fluctuations in currency exchange rates can arise when any of our foreign subsidiaries borrow funds or incur operating or other expenses in one type of currency but receive revenues in another. In such cases, an adverse change in exchange rates can reduce such subsidiary’s ability to meet its debt service obligations, reduce the amount of cash and income we receive from such foreign subsidiary or increase such subsidiary’s overall expenses. In addition, the imposition by foreign governments of restrictions on the transfer of foreign currency abroad, or restrictions on the conversion of local currency into foreign currency, would have an adverse effect on the operations of our foreign projects and foreign manufacturing operations, and may limit or diminish the amount of cash and income that we receive from such foreign projects and operations. A significant portion of our net revenue is attributed to payments made by power purchasers under power purchase agreements. The failure of any such power purchaser to perform its obligations under the relevant power purchase agreement or the loss of a power purchase agreement due to a default would reduce our net income and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. A significant portion of our net revenue is attributed to revenues derived from power purchasers under the relevant power purchase agreements. The City of Anaheim has accounted for 100%, of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009. We do not make any representations as to the financial condition or creditworthiness of any purchaser under a power purchase agreement, and nothing in this annual report should be construed as such a representation. 53 Table of Contents There is a risk that the City of Anaheim or any future power purchasers may not fulfill their respective payment obligations under their power purchase agreements. If any of the power purchasers fails to meet its payment obligations under its power purchase agreements, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. If any of our domestic projects loses its current Qualifying Facility status under PURPA, or if amendments to PURPA are enacted that substantially reduce the benefits currently afforded to Qualifying Facilities, our domestic operations could be adversely affected. Most of our domestic projects are Qualifying Facilities pursuant to PURPA and are eligible for regulatory exemptions from most provisions of the FPA and certain state laws and regulations, which largely exempts the projects from the FPA, and certain state and local laws and regulations regarding rates and financial and organizational requirements for electric utilities. If any of our domestic projects were to lose its Qualifying Facility status, such project could become subject to the full scope of the FPA and applicable state regulation. The application of the FPA and other applicable state regulation to our domestic projects could require our operations to comply with an increasingly complex regulatory regime that may be costly and greatly reduce our operational flexibility. In addition, pursuant to the FPA, FERC has exclusive rate-making jurisdiction over wholesale sales of electricity and transmission of public utilities in interstate commerce. These rates may be based on a cost of service approach or may be determined on a market basis through competitive bidding or negotiation. Qualifying Facilities are largely exempt from the FPA. If a domestic project were to lose its Qualifying Facility status, it would become a public utility under the FPA, and the rates charged by such project pursuant to its power purchase agreements would be subject to the review and approval of FERC. FERC, upon such review, may determine that the rates currently set forth in such power purchase agreements are not appropriate and may set rates that are lower than the rates currently charged. In addition, FERC may require that some or all of our domestic projects refund amounts previously paid by the relevant power purchaser to such project. Such events would likely result in a decrease in our future revenues or in an obligation to disgorge revenues previously received from our domestic projects, either of which would have an adverse effect on our revenues. Even if a project does not lose its Qualifying Facility status, pursuant to a final rule issued by FERC for projects above 20 MW, if a project’s power purchase agreement is terminated or otherwise expires, and the subsequent sales are not made pursuant to a state’s implementation of PURPA, that project will become subject to FERC’s ratemaking jurisdiction under the FPA. Moreover, a loss of Qualifying Facility status also could permit the power purchaser, pursuant to the terms of the particular power purchase agreement, to cease taking and paying for electricity from the relevant project or, consistent with FERC precedent, to seek refunds of past amounts paid. This could cause the loss of some or all of our revenues payable pursuant to the related power purchase agreements, result in significant liability for refunds of past amounts paid, or otherwise impair the value of our projects. If a power purchaser were to cease taking and paying for electricity or seek to obtain refunds of past amounts paid, there can be no assurance that the costs incurred in connection with the project could be recovered through sales to other purchasers or that we would have sufficient funds to make such payments. In addition, the loss of Qualifying Facility status would be an event of default under the financing arrangements currently in place for some of our projects, which would enable the lenders to exercise their remedies and enforce the liens on the relevant project. Pursuant to the EPACT 2005, FERC was also given authority to prospectively lift the mandatory obligation of a utility under PURPA to offer to purchase the electricity from a Qualifying Facility if the utility operates in a workably competitive market. Existing power purchase agreements between a Qualifying Facility and a utility are not affected. If the utilities in the regions in which our domestic projects operate were to be relieved of the mandatory purchase obligation, they would not be required to purchase energy from the project in the region under Federal law upon termination of the existing power purchase agreement or with respect to new projects, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. 54 Table of Contents Some of our leases will terminate if we do not achieve commercial production during the primary term of the lease, thus requiring us to enter into new leases or secure rights to alternate geothermal resources, none of which may be available on terms as favorable to us as any such terminated lease, if at all. Most of our geothermal resource leases are for a fixed primary term, and then continue for so long as we achieve commercial production or pursuant to other terms of extension. The land covered by some of our leases is undeveloped and has not yet achieved commercial production of the geothermal resources. Leases that cover land which remains undeveloped and does not achieve commercial production and leases that we allow to expire, will terminate. In the event that a lease is terminated and we determine that we will need that lease once the applicable project is operating, we would need to enter into one or more new leases with the owner(s) of the premises that are the subject of the terminated lease(s) in order to develop geothermal resources from, or inject geothermal resources into, such premises or secure rights to alternate geothermal resources or lands suitable for injection, all of which may not be possible or could result in increased cost to us, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. Claims have been made that some geothermal plants cause seismic activity and related property damage. There are approximately two-dozen geothermal plants operating within a fifty-square-mile region in the area of Anderson Springs, in Northern California, and there is general agreement that the operation of these plants causes a generally low level of seismic activity. Some residents in the Anderson Springs area have asserted property damage claims against those plant operators. There are significant issues whether the plant operators are liable, and to date no court has found in favor of such claimants. While we do not believe the areas that we are developing, as noted above, will present the same geological or seismic risks, there can be no assurance that we would not be subject to similar claims and litigation, which may adversely impact our operations and financial condition. Our Transportation & Industrial segment may be unable to successfully license our intellectual property. A significant part of our long-term business strategy for our Transportation & Industrial segment is based upon the licensing of our Symetron™ technologies to electric motor, controller, alternator and generator manufacturers, suppliers and system integrators. We expect the sales cycle with respect to the licensing of our technology to be lengthy, and there can be no assurance that we will achieve meaningful licensing revenues in the time frames that we expect. Our Symetron™ technologies are relatively new and commercially unproven. While we have completed some laboratory testing, our technologies have not yet been durability tested for long-term applications. We can provide no assurance that our technologies will prove suitable for our target business segments. Our potential product applications require significant and lengthy product development efforts. To date, we have not developed any commercially available products. It may be years before our technology is proven viable, if at all. During our product development process, we may experience technological issues that we may be unable to overcome. Superior competitive technologies may be introduced or potential customer needs may change resulting in our technology or products being unsuitable for commercialization. Because of these uncertainties, our efforts to license our technologies may not succeed. We are currently focusing on commercializing our Symetron™ technologies in the transportation and industrial markets. We cannot predict the rate at which market acceptance of our technologies will develop in these markets, if at all. Additionally, we may focus our product commercialization activities on a particular industry or industries, which may not develop as rapidly as other industries, if at all. The commercialization of our products or the licensing of our intellectual property in an industry or industries that are not developing as rapidly as other industries could harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. The demand for our technologies may be dependent on government regulations and policies such as standards for Corporate Average Fuel Economy, or CAFE, Renewable Portfolio Standards, or RPS, the Clean Air 55 Table of Contents Act and Section 45 of the Internal Revenue Code. Changes in these regulations and policies could have a negative impact on the demand for the power we plan to generate and our technologies. Any new government regulations or policies pertaining to our products or technologies may result in significant additional expenses to us and our potential customers and could cause a significant reduction in demand for our technologies and thereby significantly harm our Transportation & Industrial segment. The recent economic downturn has had a dramatic, adverse effect on the automotive industry and other large industrial manufacturers that would be in a position to use and benefit from our technologies. As a result, we believe our ability to commercialize our Symetron™ technologies will be limited until economic conditions improve. We intend to evaluate the prospects for our Transportation & Industrial segment on an ongoing basis. If we believe there are attractive opportunities, we will devote the resources to pursue those opportunities to the extent we believe appropriate. If, on the other hand, we determine that the risks and uncertainties for this business segment are too great in light of the current economic climate, we may choose to further reduce the resources devoted to these efforts. We may also be required to develop a new long-term business strategy for the Transportation & Industrial segment, or discontinue operating this business segment. We may not be able to enforce or protect the intellectual property that our Transportation & Industrial segment is seeking to license. The success of our Transportation & Industrial segment is dependent upon protecting our proprietary technology. We rely primarily on a combination of copyright, patent, trade secret and trademark laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. These laws, procedures and provisions provide only limited protection. We have applied for patent protection on most of our key technologies. We cannot be certain that our issued United States patents or our pending United States and international patent applications will result in issued patents or that the claims allowed are or will be sufficiently broad to protect the inventions derived from our technology or prove to be enforceable in actions against alleged infringers. Also, additional patent applications that we may file for our current and future technologies may not be issued. We have received three trademark registrations in the United States and ten trademark registrations internationally. We have also applied for five additional trademark registrations in the United States and one additional trademark registration internationally which may never be granted. The contractual provisions we rely on to protect our trade secrets and proprietary information, such as our confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with our employees, consultants and other third parties, may be breached and our trade secrets and proprietary information may be disclosed to the public. Despite precautions that we take, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy aspects of our technology or products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. In particular, we may provide our licensees with access to proprietary information underlying our licensed applications which they may improperly appropriate. Additionally, our competitors may independently design around patents and other proprietary rights we hold. Policing unauthorized use of our technology may be difficult and some foreign laws do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as United States laws. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention resulting in significant harm to our business. If third parties assert that our current or future products infringe their proprietary rights, we could incur costs and damages associated with these claims, whether the claims have merit or not, which could significantly harm our business. Any future claims could harm our relationships with existing or potential customers. In addition, in any potential dispute involving our intellectual property, our existing or potential customers could also become the targets of litigation, which could trigger indemnification obligations under license and service agreements and harm our customer relationships. If we unsuccessfully defend an infringement claim, we may lose our intellectual property rights, which could require us to obtain licenses which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. 56 Table of Contents We license patented intellectual property rights from third party owners. If such owners do not properly maintain or enforce the patents underlying such licenses, our competitive position and business prospects could be harmed. Our licensors may also seek to terminate our licenses. We are a party to licenses that give us rights to third-party intellectual property that is necessary or useful to our business. Our success will depend in part on the ability of our licensors to obtain, maintain and enforce our licensed intellectual property. Our licensors may not successfully prosecute the patent applications to which we have licenses. Even if patents are issued in respect of these patent applications, our licensors may fail to maintain these patents, may determine not to pursue litigation against other companies that are infringing these patents, or may pursue such litigation less aggressively than we would. Without protection for the intellectual property we license, other companies might be able to offer substantially identical products for sale, which could adversely affect our competitive business position and harm our business prospects. Our licensors may allege that we have breached our license agreement with them, and accordingly seek to terminate our license. If successful, this could result in our loss of the right to use the licensed intellectual property, which could adversely affect our ability to commercialize our technologies, products or services, as well as harm our competitive business position and our business prospects. Our Transportation & Industrial segment could incur significant expenses if products built with our technology contain defects. If our Transportation & Industrial segment successfully licenses our technology, products built with that technology may result in product liability lawsuits for any defects that they may contain. Detection of any significant defects may result in, among other things, loss of, or delay in, market acceptance and sales of our technology, diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation, or increased service and warranty costs. A material product liability claim could significantly harm our business, result in unexpected expenses and damage our reputation. We face significant competition in each of our business segments. If we fail to compete effectively, our business will suffer. Our Power Systems segment faces significant competition from other companies seeking to develop the geothermal opportunities available. Some of our competitors for geothermal projects have substantial capabilities and greater financial and technical resources than we do. As a result, we may be unable to acquire additional geothermal resources or projects on terms acceptable to us. Our Power Systems segment also competes with producers of energy from other renewable sources. This competition may make it more difficult for us to enter into power purchase agreements for our projects on terms that are acceptable to us. We believe our Transportation & Industrial segment will face significant competition from existing manufacturers, including motor, controller, alternator, and transportation vehicle companies. We may also face significant competition from our future partners. These partners may have better access to information regarding their own manufacturing processes, which may enable them to develop products that can be more easily incorporated into their products. If our potential partners improve or develop technology that competes directly with our technology, our business will be harmed. In each of our business segments, we face competition from companies that have access to substantially greater financial, engineering, manufacturing and other resources than we do, which may enable them to react more effectively to new market opportunities. Many of our competitors may also have greater name recognition and market presence than we do, which may allow them to market themselves more effectively to new customers or partners. 57 Table of Contents We may pursue strategic acquisitions that could have an adverse impact on our business. Our success depends on our ability to execute our business strategies. Our Power Systems segment is seeking to develop geothermal power plants. Our Transportation & Industrial segment is seeking to license our intellectual property to electric motor and controller manufacturers, suppliers and system integrators. Executing these strategies may involve entering into strategic transactions to acquire complementary businesses or technologies. In executing these strategic transactions, we may expend significant financial and management resources and incur other significant costs and expenses. There is no assurance that the execution of any strategic transactions will result in additional revenues or other strategic benefits for either of our business segments. The failure to enter into strategic transactions, if doing so would enable us to better execute our business strategies, could also harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We may issue company stock as consideration for acquisitions, joint ventures or other strategic transactions, and the use of common stock as purchase consideration could dilute each of our current stockholder’s interests. In addition, we may obtain debt financing in connection with an acquisition. Any such debt financing could involve restrictive covenants relating to capital-raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. In addition, such debt financing may impair our ability to obtain future additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate or other purposes, and a substantial portion of cash flows, if any, from our operations may be dedicated to interest payments and debt repayment, thereby reducing the funds available to us for other purposes and could make us more vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures. If we are unable to effectively and efficiently maintain our controls and procedures to avoid deficiencies, there could be a material adverse effect on our operations or financial results. As a publicly-traded company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. These requirements may place a strain on our systems and resources. Our management is required to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of each year end, and we are required to disclose management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, including any “material weakness” (within the meaning of Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or PCAOB, Auditing Standard No. 5) in our internal control over financial reporting. On an on-going basis, we are reviewing, documenting and testing our internal control procedures. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight will be required. No material weaknesses were identified in connection with the audit of our 2009 financial statements. However, weaknesses or deficiencies could be identified in the future. If we fail to adequately address any deficiencies, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Ultimately, if not corrected, any deficiencies could prevent us from releasing our financial information and periodic reports in a timely manner, making the required certifications regarding, and complying with our other obligations with respect to our consolidated financial statements and internal controls under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Any failure to maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting and provide accurate financial statements may subject us to litigation and would cause the trading price of our common stock to decrease substantially. Inferior controls and procedures could also subject us to a risk of delisting by the New York Stock Exchange and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. If we fail to comply with the New York Stock Exchange listing standards and maintain our listing on the New York Stock Exchange, our business could be materially harmed and our stock price could decline. Our shares of common stock are listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, national securities exchanges, including the New York Stock Exchange, have adopted more 58 Table of Contents stringent listing requirements. Our common stock could be delisted from the NYSE if we trade below $1.00 or if we fail to meet other listing criteria. Although we are currently in compliance with the minimum share price listing rule, our common stock recently traded below $1.00 for a short period of time. In order to maintain our listing on the NYSE, we must continue to meet the minimum share price listing rule, the minimum market capitalization rule and other continued listing criteria. Under the NYSE continued listing criteria, the average closing price of our common stock must not be below $1.00 per share for 30 or more consecutive trading days. In the event that the average closing price of our common stock is below $1.00 per share over a consecutive 30-day trading period, we would have a six-month cure period to attain both a $1.00 share price and a $1.00 average share price over 30 trading days. We may not be able to maintain our compliance with all of the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange. Any failure by us to maintain our listing on the New York Stock Exchange could materially harm our business, cause our stock price to decline, and make it more difficult for our stockholders to sell their shares. We rely on key personnel and the loss of key personnel or the inability to attract, train, and retain key personnel could have a negative effect on our business. We believe our future success will depend to a significant extent on the continued service of our executive officers and other key personnel. Of particular importance to our continued operations are our executive management and technical staff. We do not have key person life insurance for any of our executive officers, technical staff or other employees. If we lose the services of one or more of our current executive officers or key employees, or if one or more of them decide to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us, our business could be harmed. In recent years we have experienced turnover in certain key positions. On August 5, 2009, our Chief Executive Officer resigned due to health reasons. He has since been replaced by Nick Goodman whom we announced as the new Chief Executive Officer on January 11, 2010. On January 13, 2010 we announced that our Chief Financial Officer had resigned. On February 25, 2010, we announced that we hired John Perry as our new Chief Financial Officer . Mr. Perry began employment on March 10, 2010 and will begin his duties as our Chief Financial Officer on March 22, 2010. The replacement of our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer could result in transitional issues that could make it more difficult to execute our business plans in a timely manner. Our future success also depends on our ability to attract, train, retain and motivate highly skilled technical and administrative personnel. Since we have limited resources to attract qualified personnel, we may not be successful in recruiting, training, and retaining personnel in the future, which would impair our ability to maintain and grow our business. Our limited cash resources have in the past required us to rely heavily on equity compensation to hire and retain key personnel, and we expect this to continue in the future. This practice may result in significant non-cash compensation expenses and dilution to our stockholders. We may record impairment charges which would adversely impact our results of operations. We review our intangible assets and long-lived assets for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of these assets may not be recoverable as required by generally accepted accounting principles. One potential indicator of impairment is whether our fair value, as measured by our market capitalization, has remained below our net book value for a significant period of time. Whether our market capitalization triggers an impairment charge in any future period will depend on the underlying reasons for the decline in stock price, the significance of the decline, and the length of time the stock price has been trading at such prices. 59 Table of Contents In the event that we determine in a future period that impairment exists for any reason, we would record an impairment charge in the period such determination is made, which would adversely impact our financial position and results of operations. The large number of shares eligible for public sale could cause our stock price to decline. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of the resale of shares of common stock that were previously restricted under Rule 144. In addition, if our officers, directors or employees sell previously restricted shares for tax, estate planning, portfolio management or other purposes, such sales could be viewed negatively by investors and put downward pressure on our stock price. Approximately 67.1 million shares were free of restrictive legend as of December 31, 2009, up from approximately 40.6 million as of December 31, 2008. The occurrence of such sales, or the perception that such sales could occur, may cause our stock price to decline. On February 3, 2010, we completed the sale of 5,000 shares of the Preferred Stock, pursuant to which we raised $5.0 million, before deducting underwriters’ fees, legal fees and other expenses. Each share of the Preferred Stock will pay a quarterly dividend, payable in cash or shares of common stock equal to an annual rate of LIBOR plus eight percent (8%), but in no event higher than 14%, subject to adjustment. Each share of the Preferred Stock will be convertible into shares of our common stock at a price of $5.00 per share, such price being subject to adjustment for stock splits, recombinations, stock dividends and the like. The holders of the Preferred Stock will have the right to redeem the shares of the Preferred Stock purchased at the earlier of six months after the issue date or the date on which the price of our common stock equals or exceeds $2.00 per share, or the date of a public announcement of the intention or agreement to engage in a transaction or series of transactions that may result in a change of control of our Company. The redemption price for each share of the Preferred Stock into shares of our common stock will be at least $1.22 per share of our common stock, subject to adjustment under certain circumstances and (b) 120% of the Prevailing Market Price (as defined in the Certificate of Rights and Preferences of the Preferred Stock) at the first redemption date. We also issued warrants (the “Preferred Warrants”) to purchase up to an additional 14,000 shares of the Preferred Stock. The issuance of any additional shares of common stock pursuant to the terms of the Preferred Stock will dilute the holders of our common stock and the possibility of these additional issuances of common stock may put downward pressure on our stock price. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or other securities in the public markets, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock or other securities to decline and could materially impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional securities. Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in United States generally accepted accounting principles. United States generally accepted accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC, and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our financial results. For example, prior to January 1, 2009, we were required to record certain warrants with exercise price reset features as equity, if the warrants were considered to be indexed to our own stock. However, for periods after January 1, 2009, we are required to record certain warrants with exercise price reset features as derivative liabilities and record the quarterly changes in fair market value as gains or losses in the financial statements. A significant increase in the fair value of the warrants liability can result in a significant loss recorded during the corresponding period in the financial statements. We have never declared or paid dividends on our common stock and we do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Our business requires significant funding, and we currently invest more in project development than we earn from operating our projects and sales of our technology. In addition, the agreements governing our debt and the 60 Table of Contents terms of our Preferred Stock restrict our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. Therefore, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently plan to invest all available funds and future earnings in the development and growth of our business. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be the sole source of potential gain for our common stockholders in the foreseeable future. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 