ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. The following risk factors, among others, could cause our financial performance to differ significantly from the goals, plans, objectives, intentions and expectations expressed in this report. If any of the following risks and uncertainties or other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or not currently considered to be material actually occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could be harmed substantially. We have limited operating experience and revenue, and we are not currently profitable. We expect to continue to incur net losses for the foreseeable future, and we may never achieve or maintain profitability. We have a limited operating history and, from our inception, we have earned limited revenue from operations. We have incurred significant net losses in each year of our operations, including a net loss of approximately $15.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. As a result of ongoing operating losses, we 23 Table of Contents had an accumulated deficit and deficit after re-entry into development stage of approximately $51.2 million on cumulative revenues from inception of approximately $0.8 million as of December 31, 2007. Under our current growth plan, we do not expect that our revenues will be sufficient to cover our expenses for the foreseeable future. As a result, we expect to continue to incur substantial losses until we are able to generate significant revenues. Our ability to generate significant revenues and become profitable will depend on many factors, including our ability to: • identify and secure productive geothermal sites; • verify that the properties in which we have acquired an interest contain geothermal resources that are sufficient to generate electricity; • acquire electrical transmission and interconnection rights for geothermal plants we intend to develop; • enter into power purchase agreements for the sale of electrical power from the geothermal power plants we intend to develop; • enter into additional equity tax partner agreements with potential financing partners that will provide for the allocation of tax benefits to them and for the contribution of capital by them to the projects; • finance and complete the development of multiple geothermal power plants; • manage construction, drilling and operating costs associated with the geothermal power plants we intend to develop; • successfully license commercial applications of our SymetronTM technologies; • enforce and protect our intellectual property while avoiding infringement claims; • comply with applicable governmental regulations; and • attract and retain qualified personnel. We will need to secure additional financing in the future and if we are unable to secure adequate funds on terms acceptable to us, we will be unable to support our business requirements, build our business or continue as a going concern. As of December 31, 2007, we had cash and cash equivalents on hand of $5.9 million. Cash used in operations was approximately $6.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. If we are unable to generate revenue or secure additional financing when needed, we will be forced to reduce expenditures to continue as a going concern. Reduction of expenditures could have a negative impact on our business. A reduction of expenditures would make it more difficult for us to execute our plans to develop geothermal power plants in accordance with our expectations. It would also make it more difficult for us to conduct adequate research and development and other activities necessary to commercialize our Symetron technologies. The amount and timing of our future capital needs depend on many factors, including the timing of our development efforts, opportunities for strategic transactions, and the amount and timing of any revenues we are able to generate. Given our current business strategy, however, we will need to secure additional financing in order to execute our plans and continue our operations. Our Commitment Letter with Merrill Lynch sets forth certain general terms relating to the structure and financing of up to 155 MW of geothermal power plants we intend to develop and includes a financing commitment from Merrill Lynch with respect to a 10.5 MW plant we intend to develop in Nevada. The funding of the commitment for the Nevada plant remains subject to certain conditions. If Merrill Lynch elects to provide 24 Table of Contents or arrange a financing commitment with respect to any additional projects, such financing commitment will be subject to satisfactory due diligence, the execution of a separate commitment letter relating to such project and certain other conditions. Even if we are able to obtain funding for the development of projects pursuant to the Commitment Letter, we will need additional financing to cover general operating expenses and certain development expenses that are not covered by the Commitment Letter. If we raise additional capital through the issuance of equity or securities convertible into equity, our stockholders may experience dilution. Any new securities we issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the holders of our common stock, such as dividend rights or anti-dilution protections. We have previously issued warrants to purchase our common stock in connection with certain transactions. Some of these warrants continue to be outstanding and contain anti-dilution provisions. Pursuant to these anti-dilution provisions, the exercise price of the applicable warrants will be adjusted if we issue equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities at a price lower than the exercise price of the applicable warrants. We may also secure additional financing by incurring indebtedness. Any indebtedness we incur could constrict our liquidity, result in substantial cash outflows, and adversely affect our financial health and ability to obtain financing in the future. Any such debt would likely contain restrictive covenants that may impair our ability to obtain future additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate or other purposes, and a substantial portion of cash flows, if any, from our operations may be dedicated to interest payments and debt repayment, thereby reducing the funds available to us for other purposes. Any failure by us to satisfy our obligations with respect to these potential debt obligations would likely constitute a default under such credit facilities. Our independent registered public accounting firm’s report on our 2007 financial statements questions our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm’s report on our financial statements as of and for the two year period ended December 31, 2007 expresses doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Their report includes an explanatory paragraph stating that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern due to the lack of sufficient capital, as of the date their report was issued, to support our business plan through the end of 2008. We will need to secure additional financing in the future and if we are unable to secure adequate funds on terms acceptable to us, we will be unable to support our business requirements, build our business or continue as a going concern. Accordingly, we can offer no assurance that the actions we plan to take to address these conditions will be successful. Inclusion of a “going concern qualification” in the report of our independent accountants may have a negative impact on our ability to obtain financing and may adversely impact our stock price. The market price for our common stock has experienced significant price and volume volatility and is likely to continue to experience significant volatility in the future. Such volatility may cause investors to experience dramatic declines in our stock price from time to time, may impair our ability to secure additional financing and may otherwise harm our business. The closing price of our common stock fluctuated from a low of $4.89 per share to a high of $18.11 per share during the year ended December 31, 2007. Our stock price is likely to experience significant volatility in the future as a result of numerous factors outside of our control. As a result, the market price of our stock may not reflect our intrinsic value. In addition, following periods of volatility in our stock price, there may be increased risk that securities litigation, governmental investigations or enforcement proceedings may be instituted against us. Any such litigation, and investigation or other procedures, regardless of merits, could materially harm our business and cause our stock price to decline due to potential diversion of management attention and harm to our business reputation. 25 Table of Contents The volatility in our stock price could impair our ability to raise additional capital. Further, to the extent we do raise additional funds through equity financing, we may need to issue such equity at a substantial discount to the market price for our stock. This, in turn, could contribute to the volatility in our stock price. The geothermal power production development activities of our Power Systems segment may not be successful. We are devoting a substantial amount of our available resources to the power production development activities of our Power Systems segment. Our success in developing a particular geothermal project is contingent upon, among other things, locating a viable geothermal site, negotiation of satisfactory engineering, procurement and construction agreements, negotiation of satisfactory power purchase agreements, receipt of required governmental permits, obtaining interconnection rights, obtaining transmission service rights, obtaining adequate financing, and the timely implementation and satisfactory completion of construction. We may be unsuccessful in accomplishing any of these necessary requirements or doing so on a timely basis. Generally, we must also incur significant expenses for preliminary engineering, permitting, legal fees and other expenses before we can even determine whether a project is feasible. Project financing is not typically available for these preliminary activities. We may be unable to obtain the financing we need to develop geothermal power projects. A substantial capital investment will be necessary to develop each geothermal power project our Power Systems segment seeks to develop. Our continued access to capital through project financing or other arrangements is necessary for us to complete the geothermal power projects we plan to develop. Our attempts to secure the necessary capital on acceptable terms may not be successful. Market conditions and other factors may not permit us to obtain financing for geothermal projects on terms favorable to us. Our ability to arrange for financing on a substantially non-recourse or limited recourse basis, and the costs of such financing, are dependent on numerous factors, including general economic and capital market conditions, credit availability from banks, investor confidence, the continued success of current projects, the credit quality of the projects being financed, the political situation in the state in which the project is located and the continued existence of tax and securities laws which are conducive to raising capital. If we are not able to obtain financing for our projects on a substantially non-recourse or limited recourse basis, or if we are unable to secure capital through partnership or other arrangements, we may have to finance the projects using recourse capital such as direct equity investments, which would have a dilutive effect on our common stock. Also, in the absence of favorable financing or other capital options, we may decide not to pursue certain projects. Any of these alternatives could have a material adverse effect on our growth prospects and financial condition. Other than certain excluded financings, the Commitment Letter gives Merrill Lynch the exclusive right to provide or arrange financing for up to 100 MW of substantially similar geothermal power plants we intend to develop. Other than certain excluded financings, Merrill Lynch also has a right of first refusal with respect to the financing of an additional 55 MW of geothermal power plants we intend to develop. While Merrill Lynch has provided us with a financing commitment for a 10.5 MW plant in Nevada, Merrill Lynch is not obligated to provide us with a financing commitment for any other project unless it elects to do so. Further, Merrill Lynch’s rights under the Commitment Letter, including its right to generally match alternative financing proposals, may make it difficult for us to obtain financing proposals from other sources. The financial performance of our Power Systems segment is subject to changes in the legal and regulatory environment. The geothermal power projects that we plan to develop will be subject to extensive regulation. Changes in applicable laws or regulations, or interpretations of those laws and regulations, could result in increased compliance costs and require additional capital expenditures. Future changes could also reduce or eliminate certain benefits that are currently available. 26 Table of Contents The structure of federal and state energy regulation currently is subject to challenges, modifications, the imposition of additional regulatory requirements, and restructuring proposals. We may not be able to obtain or maintain all regulatory approvals or modifications to existing regulatory approvals that may be required in the future. In addition, the cost of operation and maintenance and the operating performance of geothermal power plants may be adversely affected by changes in certain laws and regulations, including tax laws. The federal government currently encourages production of electricity from geothermal resources through certain tax subsidies. Assuming the available tax credits remain in place as currently in effect, each geothermal power project will be permitted to claim for federal tax purposes either an investment tax credit for approximately 10% of the cost of each new geothermal power plant or “production tax credits” of 2.0 cents (plus an inflation factor) per kilowatt hour for the first ten years of electricity output. Currently, production tax credits can only be claimed on new plants placed into service before December 31, 2008. The availability of production tax credits for new plants put into service after 2008 will depend on whether Congress acts to make tax credits available for such plants and the President elects to sign into law the action taken by Congress. The owners of a geothermal power project are also permitted to deduct most of the cost of the power plant as “depreciation” over five years on an accelerated basis. The fact that the deductions are accelerated means that more of the cost is deducted in the first few years than during the remainder of the depreciation period. The tax incentives associated with a geothermal power plant are generally only beneficial to a party with sufficient taxable income. A party with sufficient taxable income can use the tax incentives to reduce their overall tax liability. Due to the nature and timing of the tax incentives, it is likely that the tax incentives available for the geothermal power plants we intend to develop will exceed the taxable income produced by such power plants for several years of operations. Therefore, an important part of our strategy involves partnering with investors that are able to utilize the tax incentives to offset taxable income associated with their operations unrelated to our geothermal power plants. For example, a corporation in the financial services industry may be willing to finance the development of a geothermal power plant for the right to receive the benefit of the tax incentives, which it could then use to reduce the tax liability associated with its regular operations. The value of the tax incentives can be transferred in a variety of methods. For instance, investment and production tax credits can be transferred through tax leases in connection with financing arrangements associated with the development of the power plant. Tax reform has the potential to have a material effect on our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. Tax reform could reduce or eliminate the value of the current tax subsidies available to geothermal projects. Any restrictions or tightening of the rules for lease or partnership transactions, whether or not part of major tax reform, could also materially affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. In addition, changes to the Internal Revenue Code could significantly increase the regulatory-related compliance and other expenses incurred by geothermal projects which, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. Any such changes could also make it more difficult for us to obtain financing for future projects. A significant part of our business strategy is to utilize the tax and other incentives available to developers of geothermal power generating plants to attract strategic alliance partners with the capital sufficient to complete these projects. Many of the incentives available for these projects are new and highly complex. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in structuring agreements that are attractive to potential strategic alliance partners. If we are unable to do so, we may be unable to complete the development of our geothermal power projects and our business could be harmed. 27 Table of Contents The exploration, development, and operation of geothermal energy resources by our Power Systems segment is subject to geological risks and uncertainties, which may result in decreased performance, increased costs, or abandonment of our projects. Our Power Systems segment is involved in the exploration, development and operation of geothermal energy resources. These activities are subject to uncertainties, which vary among different geothermal resources. These uncertainties include dry holes, uncontrolled releases of pressure and temperature decline, all of which can increase our operating costs and capital expenditures or reduce the efficiency of our power plants. In addition, the high temperature and high pressure in geothermal energy resources requires special resource management and monitoring. Because geothermal resources are complex geological structures, we can only estimate their geographic area. The viability of geothermal projects depends on different factors directly related to the geothermal resource, such as the heat content (the relevant composition of temperature and pressure) of the geothermal resource, the useful life (commercially exploitable life) of the resource and operational factors relating to the extraction of geothermal fluids. The geothermal resources we intend to exploit may not be sufficient for sustained generation of the anticipated electrical power capacity over time. Further, any of our geothermal resources may suffer an unexpected decline in capacity. In addition, we may fail to find commercially viable geothermal resources in the expected quantities and temperatures, which would adversely affect our development of geothermal power projects. The operation of the geothermal power plants our Power Systems segment intends to develop will depend on the continued availability of adequate geothermal resources. We cannot be certain that any geothermal resource will remain adequate for the life of a geothermal power plant. If the geothermal resources available to a power plant we develop become inadequate, we may be unable to perform under the power purchase agreement for the affected power plant, which in turn could reduce our revenues and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. If we suffer a degradation in our geothermal resources, our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover losses sustained as a result thereof. Our Power Systems segment may be materially adversely affected if we are unable to successfully utilize certain heat transfer technologies in the geothermal power projects our Power Systems segment intends to develop. Our Power Systems segment intends to utilize certain heat transfer technologies in the geothermal power projects we intend to develop. These heat transfer technologies were developed by UTC Power Corporation, or UTC, a United Technologies Corporation company. UTC’s heat transfer technologies are designed to enable the generation of power from geothermal resources that are lower in temperature than those resources used in traditional flash steam geothermal projects. UTC’s heat transfer technologies have a limited operating history and have only been deployed in a limited number of geothermal power projects. As a result, we cannot be certain that UTC’s heat transfer technologies can be successfully implemented in the geothermal power projects we intend to develop. If we are not able to successfully utilize UTC’s heat transfer technologies in the geothermal power projects we intend to develop and we are unable to utilize appropriate substitute technologies, we may be unable to develop these projects and our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. The costs of compliance with environmental laws and of obtaining and maintaining environmental permits and governmental approvals required for construction and/or operation of geothermal power plants are substantial, and any non-compliance with such laws or regulations may result in the imposition of liabilities which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. The geothermal power projects our Power Systems segment intends to develop will be required to comply with numerous federal, regional, state and local statutory and regulatory environmental standards. Geothermal projects must also maintain numerous environmental permits and governmental approvals required for construction and/or operation. Environmental permits and governmental approvals typically contain conditions 28 Table of Contents and restrictions, including restrictions or limits on emissions and discharges of pollutants and contaminants, or may have limited terms. If we fail to satisfy these conditions or comply with these restrictions, or we fail to comply with any statutory or regulatory environmental standards, we may become subject to a regulatory enforcement action and the operation of the projects could be adversely affected or be subject to fines, penalties or additional costs. The geothermal power projects our Power Systems segment intends to develop could expose us to significant liability for violations of hazardous substances laws because of the use or presence of such substances. The geothermal power projects our Power Systems segment intends to develop will be subject to numerous federal, regional, state and local statutory and regulatory standards relating to the use, storage and disposal of hazardous substances. We may use industrial lubricants and other substances at our projects that could be classified as hazardous substances. If any hazardous substances are found to have been released into the environment at or near the projects, we could become liable for the investigation and removal of those substances, regardless of their source and time of release. If we fail to comply with these laws, ordinances or regulations or any change thereto, we could be subject to civil or criminal liability, the imposition of liens or fines, and large expenditures to bring the projects into compliance. Furthermore, we can be held liable for the cleanup of releases of hazardous substances at other locations where we arranged for disposal of those substances, even if we did not cause the release at that location. The cost of any remediation activities in connection with a spill or other release of such substances could be significant. Our Transportation and Industrial Technology segment may be unable to successfully license our intellectual property. A significant part of our long-term business strategy for our Transportation and Industrial Technology segment is based upon the licensing of our SymetronTM technologies to electric motor, controller, alternator and generator manufacturers, suppliers and system integrators. We expect the sales cycle with respect to the licensing of our technology to be lengthy, and there can be no assurance that we will achieve meaningful licensing revenues in the time frames that we expect. If we are unable to successfully license our intellectual property or technology to these businesses or others, our Transportation and Industrial Technology segment may be unable to generate revenues under its current business model. If we are unable to generate license revenues, we may be required to develop a new long-term business strategy for the Transportation and Industrial Technology segment or discontinue operating this business segment. Our SymetronTM technologies are relatively new and commercially unproven. While we have completed some laboratory testing, our technologies have not yet been durability tested for long-term applications. We can provide no assurance that our technologies will prove suitable for our target business segments. Our potential product applications require significant and lengthy product development efforts. To date, we have not developed any commercially available products. It may be years before our technology is proven viable, if at all. During our product development process, we may experience technological issues that we may be unable to overcome. Superior competitive technologies may be introduced or potential customer needs may change resulting in our technology or products being unsuitable for commercialization. Because of these uncertainties, our efforts to license our technologies may not succeed. We are currently focusing on commercializing our SymetronTM technologies in the transportation and industrial markets. We cannot predict the rate at which market acceptance of our technologies will develop in these markets, if at all. Additionally, we may focus our product commercialization activities on a particular industry or industries, which may not develop as rapidly as other industries, if at all. The commercialization of our products or the licensing of our intellectual property in an industry or industries that are not developing as rapidly as other industries could harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 29 Table of Contents The demand for our technologies may be dependent on government regulations and policies such as standards for Corporate Average Fuel Economy (“CAFE”), Renewable Portfolio Standards (“RPS”), the Clean Air Act and Section 45 of the Internal Revenue Code. Changes in these regulations and policies could have a negative impact on the demand for the power we plan to generate and our technologies. Any new government regulations or policies pertaining to our products or technologies may result in significant additional expenses to us and our potential customers and could cause a significant reduction in demand for our technologies and thereby significantly harm our Transportation and Industrial Technology segment. We may not be able to enforce or protect the intellectual property that our Transportation and Industrial Technology segment is seeking to license. The success of our Transportation and Industrial Technology segment is dependent upon protecting our proprietary technology. We rely primarily on a combination of copyright, patent, trade secret and trademark laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. These laws, procedures and provisions provide only limited protection. We have applied for patent protection on most of our key technologies. We cannot be certain that our six issued U.S. patents, six pending U.S. patent applications, five pending international patent applications and four pending foreign patent applications will result in issued patents or that the claims allowed are or will be sufficiently broad to protect the inventions derived from our technology or prove to be enforceable in actions against alleged infringers. Also, additional patent applications that we may file for our current and future technologies may not be issued. We have received three trademark registrations in the U.S. and five trademark registrations internationally. We have also applied for five additional trademark registrations in the U.S. and seven additional trademark registrations internationally which may never be granted. The contractual provisions we rely on to protect our trade secrets and proprietary information, such as our confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with our employees, consultants and other third parties, may be breached and our trade secrets and proprietary information may be disclosed to the public. Despite precautions that we take, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy aspects of our technology or products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. In particular, we may provide our licensees with access to proprietary information underlying our licensed applications which they may improperly appropriate. Additionally, our competitors may independently design around patents and other proprietary rights we hold. Policing unauthorized use of our technology may be difficult and some foreign laws do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as United States laws. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention resulting in significant harm to our business. If third parties assert that our current or future products infringe their proprietary rights, we could incur costs and damages associated with these claims, whether the claims have merit or not, which could significantly harm our business. Any future claims could harm our relationships with existing or potential customers. In addition, in any potential dispute involving our intellectual property, our existing or potential customers could also become the targets of litigation, which could trigger indemnification obligations under license and service agreements and harm our customer relationships. If we unsuccessfully defend an infringement claim, we may lose our intellectual property rights, which could require us to obtain licenses which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. We license patented intellectual property rights from third party owners. If such owners do not properly maintain or enforce the patent’s underlying such licenses, our competitive position and business prospects could be harmed. Our licensor may also seek to terminate our license. We are a party to licenses that give us rights to third-party intellectual property that is necessary or useful to our business. Our success will depend in part on the ability of our licensors to obtain, maintain and enforce our 30 Table of Contents licensed intellectual property. Our licensors may not successfully prosecute the patent applications to which we have licenses. Even if patents issued in respect of these patent applications, our licensors may fail to maintain these patents, may determine not to pursue litigation against other companies that are infringing these patents, or may pursue such litigation less aggressively than we would. Without protection for the intellectual property we license, other companies might be able to offer substantially identical products for sale, which could adversely affect our competitive business position and harm our business prospects. Our licensors may allege that we have breached our license agreement with them, and accordingly seek to terminate our license. If successful, this could result in our loss of the right to use the licensed intellectual property, which could adversely affect our ability to commercialize our technologies, products or services, as well as harm our competitive business position and our business prospects. Our Transportation and Industrial Technology segment could incur significant expenses if products built with our technology contain defects. If our Transportation and Industrial Technology segment successfully licenses our technology, products built with that technology may result in product liability lawsuits for any defects that they may contain. Detection of any significant defects may result in, among other things, loss of, or delay in, market acceptance and sales of our technology, diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation, or increased service and warranty costs. A material product liability claim could significantly harm our business, result in unexpected expenses and damage our reputation. We face substantial competition in each of our business segments. If we fail to compete effectively, our business will suffer. Our Power Systems segment faces significant competition from other companies seeking to develop the geothermal opportunities available. Some of our competitors for geothermal projects have substantial capabilities and greater financial and technical resources than we do. As a result, we may be unable to acquire additional geothermal resources or projects on terms acceptable to us. Our Power Systems segment also competes with producers of energy from other renewable sources. This competition may make it more difficult for us to enter into power purchase agreements for our projects on terms that are acceptable to us. We believe our Transportation and Industrial Technology segment will face significant competition from existing manufacturers, including motor, controller, alternator, and transportation vehicle companies. We may also face significant competition from our future partners. These partners may have better access to information regarding their own manufacturing processes, which may enable them to develop products that can be more easily incorporated into their products. If our potential partners improve or develop technology that competes directly with our technology, our business will be harmed. In each of our business segments, we face competition from companies that have access to substantially greater financial, engineering, manufacturing and other resources than we do, which may enable them to react more effectively to new market opportunities. Many of our competitors may also have greater name recognition and market presence than we do, which may allow them to market themselves more effectively to new customers or partners. We may pursue strategic acquisitions that could have an adverse impact on our business. Our success depends on our ability to execute our business strategies. Our Power Systems segment is seeking to develop geothermal power plants. Our Transportation and Industrial Technology segment is seeking to license our intellectual property to electric motor and controller manufacturers, suppliers and system integrators. 31 Table of Contents Executing these strategies may involve entering into strategic transactions to acquire complementary businesses or technologies. In executing these strategic transactions, we may expend significant financial and management resources and incur other significant costs and expenses. There is no assurance that the execution of any strategic transactions will result in additional revenues or other strategic benefits for either of our business segments. The failure to enter into strategic transactions, if doing so would enable us to better execute our business strategies, could also harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We may issue company stock as consideration for acquisitions, joint ventures or other strategic transactions, and the use of common stock as purchase consideration could dilute each of our current stockholder’s interest. In addition, we may obtain debt financing in connection with an acquisition. Any such debt financing could involve restrictive covenants relating to capital-raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. In addition, such debt financing may impair our ability to obtain future additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate or other purposes, and a substantial portion of cash flows, if any, from our operations may be dedicated to interest payments and debt repayment, thereby reducing the funds available to us for other purposes and could make us more vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures. If we are unable to effectively and efficiently maintain our controls and procedures to avoid deficiencies, there could be a material adverse effect on our operations or financial results. As a publicly-traded company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. These requirements may place a strain on our systems and resources. Our management is required to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of each year end, and we are required to disclose management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, including any “material weakness” (within the meaning of Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”) Auditing Standard No. 5) in our internal control over financial reporting. On an on-going basis, we are reviewing, documenting and testing our internal control procedures. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight will be required. No material weaknesses were identified in connection with the audit of our 2007 financial statements. However, weaknesses or deficiencies could be identified in the future. If we fail to adequately address any deficiencies, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Ultimately, if not corrected, any deficiencies could prevent us from releasing our financial information and periodic reports in a timely manner, making the required certifications regarding, and complying with our other obligations with respect to our consolidated financial statements and internal controls under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Any failure to maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting and provide accurate financial statements may subject us to litigation and would cause the trading price of our common stock to decrease substantially. Inferior controls and procedures could also subject us to a risk of delisting by the NYSE Arca exchange and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. If we fail to comply with the NYSE Arca exchange listing standards and maintain our listing on the NYSE Arca exchange, our business could be materially harmed and our stock price could decline. Our shares of common stock are listed on the NYSE Arca exchange. Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, national securities exchanges, including the NYSE Arca exchange, have adopted more stringent listing requirements. Although we have been approved to list shares of common stock on the NYSE Arca exchange, we may not be able to maintain our compliance with all of the listing standards of the NYSE Group. Any failure by us to maintain our listing on the NYSE Arca exchange could materially harm our business, cause our stock price to decline, and make it more difficult for our stockholders to sell their shares. 32 Table of Contents We rely on key personnel and the loss of key personnel or the inability to attract, train, and retain key personnel could have a negative effect on our business. We believe our future success will depend to a significant extent on the continued service of our executive officers and other key personnel. Of particular importance to our continued operations are our executive management and technical staff. We do not have key person life insurance for any of our executive officers, technical staff or other employees. If we lose the services of one or more of our executive officers or key employees, or if one or more of them decide to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us, our business could be harmed. In recent years we have experienced turnover in several key positions. Our future success also depends on our ability to attract, train, retain and motivate highly skilled technical and sales personnel. Since our Company has limited resources to attract qualified personnel, we may not be successful in recruiting, training, and retaining personnel in the future, which would impair our ability to maintain and grow our business. Our limited cash resources have in the past required us to rely heavily on equity compensation to hire and retain key personnel, and we expect this to continue in the future. This practice may result in significant non-cash compensation expenses and dilution to our stockholders. The large number of shares eligible for public sale could cause our stock price to decline. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of the resale of shares of common stock that were previously restricted under Rule 144. If our officers, directors or employees sell shares for tax, estate planning, portfolio management or other purposes, such sales could be viewed negatively by investors and put downward pressure on our stock price. Approximately 29.9 million shares were free of restrictive legend as of December 31, 2007, up from approximately 19.4 million and 11.5 million at the end of 2006 and 2005, respectively. The occurrence of such sales, or the perception that such sales could occur, may cause our stock price to decline. Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. U.S. generally accepted accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC, and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our financial results. For example, prior to January 1, 2006, we were not required to record stock-based compensation charges for employee stock option grants if the employee’s stock option exercise price was equal to or exceeded the deemed fair value of the underlying security at the date of grant. However, beginning January 1, 2006 we are required to record the fair value of stock options as an expense in accordance with recent accounting pronouncements. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 