Item 1A. Risk Factors We have limited experience building and operating merchant frequency regulation plants. In order to be commercially-viable in the long term, we need to be competitive with respect to open-bid pricing for frequency regulation and with both conventional fossil-based regulating generators and other emerging storage technologies. To date, we have designed, built and operated up to 3 MW in Tyngsboro under the ISO-NE pilot program. As of March 2011, we have 14 MW of frequency regulation operating in Stephentown, New York, and expect to have all 20 MW in operation in the second quarter of 2011. We have also previously built and successfully deployed both 2 kWh and 6 kWh flywheel systems in limited volumes. The further development of our Smart Energy Matrix™ and increasing our production and deployment of our systems involves certain cost, technological and infrastructure challenges, which include: •The possibility of development and production delays and/or cost increases that may occur if we are unable to establish and maintain multiple source suppliers for key components that meet our engineering requirements, cost objectives and development and production schedules •The need to make timely improvements to the system's design in order to achieve cost reductions and/or increase the performance of our frequency regulation plants •The need to meet system performance and manufacturing requirements as we increase our production volume to maintain our plant deployment schedule. •The need to expand our manufacturing capacity and significantly increasing our production volumes •The need to increase our field service and installation team, management organization and infrastructure. We have limited experience with such a transition, and in the event we are not successful in meeting these challenges, we may not be able to bid competitively with competing technologies and therefore not achieve the revenues and margins required to become profitable. This could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue as a going concern. Frequency regulation service pricing is currently below the pricing that has prevailed for some years. However, if such low pricing continues for an extended period, it will adversely affect our revenue and cash flows, and if it becomes durationally significant so as to substantially threaten our Stephentown facility, it would increase the risk that the DOE may consider the pricing to constitute a material adverse effect, leading to an alleged default under our loan documentation. We regard the current pricing as anomalously low, and believe that it is likely to return to levels consistent with past history, and also be enhanced if the FERC's NOPR on performance pricing is implemented. Over the longer term, the market pricing for frequency regulation services has historically tended to follow the pricing for energy. Hence, when the price of energy drops, frequency regulation prices may be adversely affected, which could materially affect our revenue. Electricity prices have been below recent historical averages due in part to the economic recession, and the impact of a decrease in energy prices. Consequently, during 2010, recent frequency regulation clearing prices were significantly lower than their historical average, including in the regions where we are developing plants, with some -20- markets seemingly affected more than others. During the fourth quarter of 2010 in particular, frequency regulation pricing in the New York ISO region dropped to historically low levels for that market. The reasons for historical anomalies in pricing trends can be difficult to determine, but we believe that the general reasons for pricing pressure (described above) were exacerbated in the fourth quarter of 2010 when a new market participant bid in a low manner which we believe that entrant may not be willing to sustain. We believe that the unusually low frequency regulation pricing will be temporary, and think it likely that there will be a trend back toward historical pricing levels, as predicted by an independent market report commissioned by the DOE and issued in February 2011. It found no evidence to support the position that current pricing levels represent a long-term change. Also, as mentioned elsewhere, on February 17, 2011, FERC issued a NOPR that, if adopted as proposed, would direct ISOs to implement a "pay-for-performance" compensation structure for frequency regulation which we regard as particularly helpful for fast response resources such as ours, and would significantly enhance the economics of our plants (including in Stephentown). However, there are no guarantees that pricing will return to historical average levels. If the lower frequency regulation pricing levels, contrary to these expectations, reflect a long-term change in the market, or if they otherwise continue indefinitely, this could have a material adverse effect on revenues, cash flow and our ability to raise equity on terms that we consider attractive, to meet our debt service obligations and to continue as a going concern. It is also possible that under our loan guarantee documentation with the DOE, the DOE could, at some point in time, take the position that durationally significant low pricing substantially threatens the Stephentown project entity, and constitutes a material adverse effect. If so, the DOE might refuse to permit additional advances under the DOE loan documents or otherwise take the position that a default has occurred under DOE loan documents. Reductions in demand for electricity may have a negative impact on both the demand for and pricing of frequency regulation services and therefore our revenue. We expect the overall size of the global frequency regulation market to grow, in part due to the need for more regulation resulting from the increased use of intermittent energy sources, such as wind and solar. A sustained drop in the price of energy may adversely affect the growth of these industries, and consequently, the overall size of and rate of growth for the frequency regulation market. A reduced demand for frequency regulation could result in lower pricing, which would have a material adverse effect on our achieving our business plan. We have to demonstrate that the performance of our 20 MW Smart Energy Matrix™ is consistent with design expectations. In order to achieve market acceptance, we will need to demonstrate that the actual performance of our planned 20 MW Smart Energy MatrixTM frequency regulation plants is consistent with projected performance. While we now have 14 MW interconnected and operating on the utility grid in Stephentown and we expect to expand to a full 20 MW during the second quarter of 2011, there remains a risk that the plant will not perform as expected, and if it does not, it could adversely affect our profitability and our ability to continue as a going concern. We will be unable to sell plants overseas until we can demonstrate that our technology is compatible with 50 Hz electrical design requirements. Our technology is currently designed to meet 60 Hz electrical design requirements for North America. Failure to make our technology fully compatible with 50 Hz electrical design requirements in either a timely or correct manner will impede our ability to sell plants in regions of the world that require 50 Hz compatibility, including but not limited to Europe, China, and a portion of Japan. If adapting our flywheel system to operate at 50 Hz cannot be achieved in a time period that meets our -21- planned deployment outside the United States, it could have a material adverse effect on achieving our business goals. Our business plan includes the construction and operation of frequency regulation plants in a variety of locations, as well as the sale of turnkey systems. Our business development plans, which involve the construction and operation of multiple frequency regulation plants, will pose significant technological, logistical and cost challenges such as: •Managing large-scale construction projects, in terms of both schedule and cost •Managing large-scale construction projects simultaneously in multiple locations where we may not be familiar with local laws and market rules •Achieving planned cost reductions for our 20 MW system as we increase our production volume. To be profitable, we will need to obtain site interconnection approvals, landlord approval, or other zoning and construction approvals in a timely manner; obtain equity and/or project financing; organize, develop, finance, build and operate in a number of geographically dispersed locations; and participate within the market rules of the open-bid markets. However, we have limited experience with deploying and operating large, multiple geographically dispersed frequency regulation installations. If we are unable to execute these tasks, it will have a material adverse effect on our profitability and could adversely affect our ability to continue as a going concern. We face a number of challenges related to the DOE loan guarantee on our first 20 MW plant. In developing the Stephentown facility, we entered into obligations that are new to us. These include the following: •We entered into an 18 year contractual obligation to provide operation management and maintenance to the subsidiary •We entered into a contract to provide administrative services •We will be providing a two year commercial warranty on certain components (flywheels, certain cabling, containers and electronic control modules) of the 20 MW plant •We were required to place sufficient technology into escrow that would allow the DOE to assume control of the plant assets for use in the project and have a third party operate and maintain it should we be unable to meet our obligations •The debt service obligations under the loan documents are computed in a fixed and formulaic manner, yet funded by revenues whose base is entirely variable (i.e., at prices determined by auction every day) •We were required to guarantee completion of the plant •We were required to ensure that the subsidiary will meet certain operational and financial tests and other covenants. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in meeting any or all of these challenges and failure to meet all of these challenges could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. Some of the factors described above, such as putting our technology into escrow and other demands, guarantees and loan covenants required under the terms of the DOE loan may affect the terms of future project financing or make it more difficult to obtain such financing. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining future project financing or that that financing, if -22- available, will be on terms that are economically viable and that required guarantees can be met. Failure to obtain additional financing would have a material adverse effect on our financial viability. The commercialization of our Smart Energy Matrix™ will require substantial funds. Our stockholders may be adversely affected if we issue securities or equity-linked securities to obtain financing. We will require substantial funds to manufacture and deploy our systems, market our services and increase our revenue. We anticipate that such funds will be obtained from a combination of equity, debt, and/or the sale of turnkey systems. The extent of the funds needed is dependent, in part, on the volume of flywheels that we produce and deploy and/or sell as turnkey systems. A large portion of our expenses are fixed, including those related to facilities, equipment and key personnel. To execute our business plan, we will incur substantial costs to manufacture and deploy our Smart Energy Matrix™ systems. If we do not succeed in raising additional funds, we will be unable to execute our business plan. If this occurs, it will have a material adverse impact on our business, including our ability to continue as a going concern. A fundamental component of our business plan is the use of project financing to fund, at least in part, our Smart Energy Matrix™ installations. The fact that we are in the early stages of deploying our merchant plants makes it harder to obtain project financing. Additionally, adverse conditions in the overall credit market further complicate our ability to arrange financing, at least in the near term. We have limited experience in obtaining project financing. The funding we require may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. Such funding may only be available on terms that cause substantial dilution to common stockholders, and/or have liquidation preferences and/or pre-emptive rights. If we raise funds by issuing debt securities or equity securities, existing stockholders may be adversely affected because new investors may have rights that are superior to current stockholders or through the dilutive effect of new equity securities on current stockholders. Our stock price has been volatile and purchasers of our common stock could incur substantial losses. The market price of our common stock has historically been volatile, and fluctuates significantly in response to multiple factors, some of which are beyond our control. The stock market in general experiences wide volatility that has often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations could result in significant movement in the price of our common stock, which may cause investors to be adversely affected and potentially incur substantial losses. The market price for our stock may be influenced by many factors, including: •Market conditions in the conventional or renewable energy industries, and specifically in the frequency regulation markets in which we participate or plan to participate •Securities analysts' reports or recommendations •Our ability or inability to execute our business plan •The dilutive effect or anticipated effect of additional equity financings •Investor perception of our Company and of the industry •The success of competitive products or technologies •Regulatory developments in the United States and/or foreign countries •Developments or disputes concerning patents or other proprietary rights •The recruitment or departure of key personnel •General economic, political and market conditions. -23- Historically, the amount of frequency regulation required in the United States typically has been one percent of all power produced. If a reduction in this percentage occurs, our revenue and profitability could be adversely affected. Various regulatory organizations, such as FERC and the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC), as well as the ISOs, oversee the markets and can implement rules and regulations that may alter the percentage of frequency regulation required. Each ISO decides what amount of regulation it needs to procure in order to meet NERCs requirements. This can vary based on each ISO's evaluation of its region. We cannot predict how these organizations may act in the future, and if any ISO decides to reduce its amount of regulation procurement, it would reduce the size of the market in which we compete and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our business plan. We have a history of losses, anticipate future losses and will have limited revenues in the near term. Unless we raise substantial additional capital to operate our business, we may not be able to continue as a going concern. We had approximately $10,866,000 in cash and cash equivalents on hand at December 31, 2010. We believe that our December 2010 cash balances, combined with anticipated funds from the exercise of preferred stock warrants issued in December 2010, are sufficient to fund operations into the third quarter of 2011. We have incurred significant losses from operations since our inception. As shown in our consolidated financial statements, we incurred losses from operations of approximately $22,308,000, $18,944,000 and $23,838,000, and operating cash decreases of approximately $15,613,000, $16,698,000 and $18,182,000 during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Our business model is based on owning and operating a number of 20 MW frequency regulation merchant plants, and the sale of turnkey systems. Our goal is to reduce the cost to complete these plants, and we believe we are on target to do so. However, to fund our merchant plants, we will need to sell turnkey plants to utilities or raise capital in both 2011 and 2012. In the event that we are not successful in selling turnkey plants and are unable to raise capital or the timing is delayed, it will have a material adverse effect on our ability to execute our business plan and could impact our ability to continue as a going concern. Miller Wachman LLP, our independent auditor, has included an explanatory paragraph expressing uncertainty in their audit report on our consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, which identifies our recurring losses and negative cash flows and raises doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our financial statements have been prepared on the basis of a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. We have not made any adjustments to our financial statements as a result of the going concern uncertainty. If we cannot continue as a going concern, we may have to liquidate our assets and may receive significantly less than the values at which they are carried on our financial statements. Any shortfall in the proceeds from the liquidation of our assets would directly reduce the amounts that holders of our common stock could receive in liquidation. We are dependent on third-party suppliers for materials and components used to manufacture our flywheels and build our Smart Energy Matrix™ plants. Increases in purchase prices or decreases in availability of materials and commodities may affect our ability to achieve profitability. In particular, our systems require carbon fiber, steel and aluminum, the cost of which may be impacted by the price and availability of energy and other factors. We purchase components and commodities from third-party suppliers. Delays in availability or receipt of these items or cost increases, could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our flywheels, deploy our Smart Energy Matrix™ plants or become profitable. Certain commodities, such as -24- carbon fiber, aluminum and steel are basic elements of our flywheel systems. Some of these commodities have, in the past, been subject to shortages and price changes. Future shortages or price changes could impact our ability to manufacture our flywheel systems in a timely manner and at a reasonable cost. Additionally, certain components which we purchase are technically difficult to manufacture, and suppliers may have difficulty manufacturing products that meet our specifications and requirements. Although we have taken steps to establish at least two suppliers for our critical components, failure of a key supplier to produce acceptable components on a timely basis could have a significantly adverse effect on our ability to execute our business plan. Further, there are no guarantees that, should we receive additional funding that would allow us to accelerate our deployment schedule our suppliers would be able to meet our accelerated production requirements, which would limit our ability to accelerate our deployment. Certain components we use in our manufacturing process have lengthy lead times from order date to delivery at our facility. Our competitive position could be impaired if we either fail to protect our intellectual property or infringe third-party patent rights. We cannot provide assurance that we have or will be able to maintain a significant proprietary position on the basic technologies used in our flywheel systems. Our ability to compete effectively against alternative technologies will be affected by our ability to protect proprietary technology, systems designs and manufacturing processes. We do not know whether any of our pending or future patent applications under which we have rights will issue, or, in the case of patents issued or to be issued, that the claims allowed are or will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology or processes from competitors. Even if all of our patent applications are issued and are sufficiently broad, they may be challenged or invalidated. In the past, we have incurred substantial costs in prosecuting or defending patent infringement suits, and such suits have diverted funds and resources that could have been used in our business. Further, our competitors or others may independently develop or patent technologies or processes that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours. If we are found to be infringing on third-party patents, we do not know whether we will be able to obtain licenses to use such patents on acceptable terms, if at all. Even if we were able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which could result in our competitors gaining access to the same intellectual property, and/or we may be required to pay license fees, royalties and/or other amounts. Failure to obtain needed licenses could delay or prevent the development, manufacture or sale of our systems, and lead to materially adverse effects on our Company, including ceasing some aspects of our business. We rely, in part, on contractual provisions to protect trade secrets and proprietary knowledge. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Our trade secrets may also be known without breach of such agreements or may be independently developed by competitors or others. Our inability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology and processes could allow competitors or others to limit or eliminate any competitive advantages we may have. Government regulations may impair our ability to construct and operate our plants profitably. Government regulation of our services in the United States, whether at the federal, state or local level, including any change in regulations, tariffs or zoning, may increase the cost of our services or decrease our revenue, and may have a negative impact on our profitability. We cannot provide assurance that our services will not be subject to additional federal, state and local regulations governing traditional electric utilities and other regulated entities in the future. We expect that our Smart Energy Matrix™ plants will be subject to oversight and regulation at the local level in accordance with state and local ordinances relating to building codes, environmental, safety and related matters. For example, in certain ISOs, we may require permits from state utility commissions, and could be -25- subject to fines or construction delays if those commissions determined that we were not in compliance with the permits. We do not know the full extent to which current or future regulations may affect our ability to build and operate our systems. In addition, if regulatory modifications change the structure of the markets, such modifications could adversely affect our business plan. If the market rules change in the future or current modifications being developed as a result of FERC Order No. 890 or expected new market rules related to performance pricing are not implemented, we may be required to change our business plan and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in doing so. Similarly, in international markets, we face the need in some countries to foster regulatory changes in order to enter and compete on a fair, equitable and economic basis. Even if achieved, unforeseen adverse developments in the regulatory landscape of these countries could impair our ability to enter or operate profitably in these markets. The exercise of options and warrants and other issuances of shares will likely have a dilutive effect on our stock price. As of December 31, 2010, there were outstanding options to purchase an aggregate of 1,660,791 shares of our common stock at prices ranging from $2.30 per share to $93.10 per share, of which options to purchase 1,217,582 shares were exercisable as of such date. As of December 31, 2010, there were outstanding warrants to purchase 10,647,108 shares of our common stock, all of which were exercisable as of December 31, 2010. The exercise of options and warrants at prices below the market price of our common stock could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Additional dilution may result from the issuance of shares of our common stock in connection with collaborations or manufacturing arrangements or in connection with financing efforts. Conversion of our outstanding preferred stock may lead to further dilution to holders of our common stock, and the outstanding preferred stock may reduce the amount available to our common stockholders in the event of a liquidation. We issued 10,000 shares of preferred stock at a purchase price of $1,000 per share in December 2010 as part of a financing. At the same time, we issued warrants to purchase an additional 5,000 shares of preferred stock at an exercise price of $1,000 per share, as well as common stock warrants. The preferred stock warrants can be exercised at any time by the holders, or we can force their exercise under certain circumstances. The preferred stock is currently convertible into shares of our common stock at a conversion price of $2.5234 per share, subject to adjustment (including adjustment for future dilutive issuances of common stock below that price). The conversion price may also be adjusted further as a result of our recent reverse stock split, based on the ratio of the volume weighted average trading prices of our common stock for the fifteen trading days before and after the reverse stock split. The amount of this latter adjustment, if any, has not yet been determined. We are required to make installment payments on the preferred stock in fixed dollar amounts through the scheduled maturity date of the preferred stock in February 2012. If certain equity conditions are met (including certain listing and trading volume requirements), we can pay the installment amounts, as well as dividends on the preferred stock, in shares of our common stock. As of March 11, 2011, there were 1,442.5 shares of preferred stock outstanding (not including 737.87 shares that were pre-redeemed on March 1, 2011 for the April 1, 2011 scheduled redemption) and unexercised warrants to purchase an additional 2,115 shares of preferred stock. The conversion of these shares of preferred stock into common stock (either by the holder or upon our payment of dividends or installment amounts in shares of our common stock) could lead to further dilution of our existing common stockholders. In the event we are unable to continue as a going concern or otherwise -26- liquidate, then the outstanding preferred stock will have a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends, plus an amount reflecting dividends remaining to maturity, following which the holders of preferred stock will participate in distributions to holders of our common stock on an as-converted basis. In such an event, the preferred stock may significantly diminish the amounts, if any, available for distribution to holders of our common stock. Our financial performance could be adversely affected if we are unable to retain key executive officers. Our future success and our ability to effectively implement our business plan depends to a large degree on the management provided by the executive officers and thus on our ability to retain members of our executive team, which are: Mr. Capp, CEO and President; Mr. Spiezio, Vice President of Finance, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Secretary; Mr. Lazarewicz, Vice President and Chief Technical Officer; and Ms. Judson, Vice President, Asset Management and Market Development. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in retaining our executive officers. In March 2011, we entered into employment agreements with our executive officers that continue until terminated. The executives have the right to terminate employment for "good reason", as defined in their executive agreements, and receive the compensation and benefits defined in those agreements. The executives may also elect to terminate their employment, for any reason, upon at least 90 day written prior notice to the Company. Our financial performance could be adversely affected if we are unable to retain or attract key personnel. Our future success also depends to a large degree on the technical skills of our engineering staff and our ability to attract key technical personnel and other staff. Competition for hiring skilled professionals can be intense. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining the talent necessary to design, develop and manufacture our systems and deploy and operate our frequency regulation installations. We currently purchase a small percentage of components for our flywheels from companies outside of the United States. We expect to expand our business to other countries. Engaging in business outside of the United States exposes us to a variety of risks related to the specific countries in which we may operate. Engaging in business outside the United States may expose us to a variety of risks, which include: •Different political and economic climates which we may not fully understand or be prepared to address •Potential political and economic instability, including armed conflicts •Potential imposition of government controls, trade restrictions, or changes in tariffs that may have a negative impact on our ability to operate, our cost structure or our revenue •Some electrical grids in other countries have different standards than in the United States. We may be unable to successfully meet these standards, resulting in loss of revenue or increase in costs •Some countries have different market structures, within which we may be unable to successfully operate or which may require regulatory changes in order for us to be paid for our services •Exchange rates in other countries may fluctuate significantly, which could expose us to the risk of currency exchange losses •If the US dollar strengthens, it may make the purchase of our technology less attractive to foreign customers -27- •Some countries have different legal structures within which we may be unable to successfully enforce contracts or adequately protect our intellectual property •We may face difficulty in managing and operating installations located in another country, including cultural and language differences •We may face difficulty in repatriating funds from foreign operations due to limitations on the amounts that can be transferred to the United States, or taxes and penalties on such transfers. Due to the risks shown above, there is no guarantee that we would succeed in expanding and operating our business in countries outside of the United States. Failure to adequately address these risks could potentially have a material adverse effect on our business. If our Smart Energy Matrix™ systems were to malfunction and/or cause damage we could be subject to possible product liability claims for both damages and fines that exceed our liability insurance coverage. Additionally, our stock price could drop as a result of negative publicity from such claims. We have incorporated technical features in our flywheel systems that are designed to ensure that a failure will not result in any significant damage, including secondary damage to the electrical grid. However, our Smart Energy Matrix™ is a complex system, and errors may occur during the manufacturing or installation process. Should a failure take place, we may incur substantial costs to repair or replace the defective equipment. In addition, failures may result in product liability claims against us. Liability claims may also be filed against us which have no merit, but which may require us to expend significant resources defending ourselves. Such claims, valid or not, could result in negative publicity. This could have a materially adverse effect on our business. Competitors in the frequency regulation market include established utilities, independent service providers and alternative energy storage technology companies with greater resources than we have. The frequency regulation services market is being served by well-known utilities and independent service providers that use conventional generators. In addition, there are emerging energy storage technologies that have also begun providing this service. Most of these competitors have greater financial and technical resources than we do. We have anti-takeover defenses that could delay or prevent an acquisition and changes in control that could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws, Rights Agreement and Delaware law may have the effect of deterring unsolicited takeovers or delaying or preventing changes in control of management, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. In addition, these provisions may limit the ability of stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interest. Our certificate of incorporation permits the Company to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval upon such terms as the board of directors may determine, as was done in December 2010. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding common stock. Although we have no present intention of issuing additional preferred stock, issuance of a substantial number of preferred shares could adversely affect the price of our common stock. -28- In addition, our certificate of incorporation and our by-laws provide that: •Our directors may only be removed for cause by a majority of the outstanding capital stock entitled to vote in the election of directors •Our stockholders do not have the power to call special meetings of stockholders •The provisions relating to the removal of directors and calling of special stockholder meetings may only be amended by a 662/3% vote of the outstanding shares of common stock, voting together as a single class. These provisions make it more difficult for our stockholders to change the composition of the board of directors, as well as approve transactions they may deem to be in their best interests but that are not approved by the board of directors. Pursuant to a Rights Agreement, dated as of September 25, 2002, between the Company and Computershare Trust Company, N.A. (fka Equiserve Trust Company, N.A.), as Rights Agent, as subsequently amended, we issued rights as a dividend on common stock on October 7, 2002, each of which initially entitles the holder to purchase 1/10th of a share of newly issued preferred stock for $22.50, in the event that any person not approved by the board of directors acquires more than 15% of our outstanding common stock. If the rights become exercisable, each right will entitle the holder to purchase $22.50 worth of our common stock or, in the event of an acquisition by another company, $22.50 worth of the common stock of the other company, at half its market value. In each case, the rights held by the acquiring person are not exercisable and become void. The Rights Agreement, as amended, may have the effect of discouraging a third party from making an offer to acquire us without the support of our Board of Directors, even if such an offer would be at a premium to the market price of our common stock at the time. Our stock may be removed from The Nasdaq Stock Market if we do not maintain compliance with its listing rules: On September 14, 2010, at the end of previously applicable grace periods provided under the Nasdaq Listing Rules, we received a letter from The Nasdaq Stock Market informing us that our common shares had failed to comply with the $1.00 minimum bid price required for continued listing on The Nasdaq Capital Market under Listing Rule 5550(a)(2), and as a result, without further action our common shares would be subject to delisting. We appealed the Staff's determination, and on December 6, 2010, we announced that we had received a favorable ruling from the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel which granted our request to remain listed on the NASDAQ, conditioned upon our satisfying the minimum bid price requirement by March 14, 2011, and also remaining in compliance on that date with NASDAQ's other, normal requirements for maintaining a company's continued listing. Specifically, we were required to evidence a closing bid price for our common stock of at least $1.00 per share for a minimum of ten consecutive business days by the close of business on March 14, 2011. In order to meet this requirement, we completed a reverse stock split on February 25, 2011, as discussed in our consolidated financial statement footnotes under "Subsequent Events", and thus we have regained compliance with the NASDAQ listing rules. However, should our stock price decrease in the future, there can be no assurance that we will be able to meet The Nasdaq Stock Market's minimum bid price requirements and therefore may lose our eligibility for quotation on The Nasdaq Stock Market. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. -29- 