ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors and Forward-Looking Statements The discussion set forth in this Form 10-K contains statements concerning potential future events. Such forward-looking statements are based on assumptions by our management, as of the date of this Form 10-K, including, without limitation, assumptions about risks and uncertainties faced by us. Readers can identify these forward-looking statements by their use of such verbs as "expects," "anticipates," "believes," "plans" or similar verbs or conjugations of such verbs. If any of management's assumptions prove incorrect or should unanticipated circumstances arise, our actual results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements could materially differ from those anticipated by such forward-looking statements. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are those discussed below in this Form 10-K. We will not update any forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K to reflect future events or developments. If we do not successfully address the risks described below, our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow could be materially adversely affected. The trading price of our Common Stock and publicly traded debt could decline because of any of these risks. Risks Relating to Our Business Our business incurred net losses from inception through September 30, 2010, and may incur losses in the future. Our business has a history of net losses. As of December 31, 2013, we had an accumulated deficit of $1.7 billion, total stockholders' equity of $399.1 million, and goodwill of $314.0 million. We cannot 14 Table of Contents provide assurance that we will sustain an operating profit or a positive cash flow. If we are not able to do so, the trading price of our Common Stock and publicly traded debt may fall significantly. To continue to be profitable before interest expense and to continue to generate a positive cash flow, we must maintain or increase the positive margin of our advertising and subscriber revenue over our (i) programming expenses, (ii) selling, general and administrative expenses and (iii) marketing expenses. This will require, among other things, maintaining or increasing the distribution of our Networks, attracting younger viewers to our Networks, attracting more advertisers, increasing our ratings and maintaining or increasing our subscriber and advertising rates. Our indebtedness may affect our ability to operate our business, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We, and our subsidiaries, each a guarantor of our Notes, may incur additional indebtedness, including secured indebtedness. As of December 31, 2013, we had total debt outstanding of $454.3 million, of which $154.3 million was secured, and borrowing availability of approximately $30.0 million under our senior secured credit facilities. The amount of our indebtedness, as well as the associated restrictive covenants, may adversely affect the operation of our business by limiting our ability to do a number of things, including but not limited to, the following: •Use operating cash flow in other areas of our business because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to service debt; •Obtain additional financing to fund our working capital needs, acquisitions, capital expenditures or other debt service requirements or for other purposes; •Compete with other companies who are not as highly leveraged, as we may be less capable of responding to adverse economic and industry conditions; •Make strategic acquisitions, develop properties or exploit business opportunities; •Pay dividends or other distributions from our subsidiaries to us; •Avoid vulnerabilities if confronted with downturns in the pricing of our products or general economic conditions; and •React to changing market conditions in our industry and in our customers' industries. Further, a number of the associated restrictive covenants constitute events of default if not satisfied, cured or waived. In addition to our debt service obligations, our operations require substantial investments on a continuing basis. Our ability to make scheduled debt payments and to fund capital and non-capital expenditures necessary to maintain the condition of our operating assets and properties, as well as to provide capacity for the growth of our business, depends on our financial and operating performance, which, in turn, is subject to prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, competitive, legal and other factors. Subject to the restrictions in our senior secured credit facilities and the indenture governing the Notes, we and our subsidiary guarantors may incur significant additional indebtedness, including additional secured indebtedness. Although the terms of our senior secured credit facilities contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be significant. If we or any of our subsidiary guarantors should incur additional debt, the risks described above could increase. 15 Table of Contents Our liquidity could be dependent on external funds. Unanticipated significant costs or expenses or any developments that decrease or otherwise hamper the growth in our revenue may result in the need for additional external funds in order to continue operations. Any new debt financing would require the cooperation and agreement of existing lenders. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness that may not be successful. Our ability to satisfy our debt obligations will depend upon, among other things, the following: •our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control; and •our future ability to borrow under our senior secured credit facilities, the availability of which depends on, among other things, our complying with the covenants in the indenture governing the Notes. We cannot provide assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that we will be able to draw under our senior secured credit facilities in an amount sufficient to fund our liquidity needs. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to service our indebtedness, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness, including the Notes. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations, sell equity, or negotiate with our lenders to restructure the applicable debt, in order to meet our debt service and other obligations. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions for fair market value or at all. Our senior secured credit facilities and the indenture governing the Notes may restrict, or market or business conditions may limit, our ability to avail ourselves of some or all of these options. Furthermore, any proceeds that we could realize from any such dispositions may not be adequate to meet our debt service obligations then due. Our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. Our senior secured credit facilities and the indenture governing the Notes contain a number of covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us which, among other things, limit our ability to do the following: •incur additional debt or issue certain preferred shares; •pay dividends on or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments; •make certain payments on debt that is subordinated or secured on a junior basis; •make certain investments; •sell certain assets; 16 Table of Contents •create liens on certain assets; •consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; •enter into certain transactions with our affiliates; and •designate our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries. Any of these restrictions could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions and could otherwise restrict corporate activities. Any failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under our senior secured credit facilities and the indenture governing the Notes. Upon a default, unless waived, the lenders under our senior secured credit facilities could elect to terminate their commitments, cease making further loans, foreclose on our assets pledged to such lenders to secure our obligations under the senior secured credit facilities and force us into bankruptcy or liquidation. Holders of the Notes would also have the ability ultimately to force us into bankruptcy or liquidation, subject to the indenture governing the Notes. In addition, a default under either our senior secured credit facilities or the indenture governing the Notes would trigger a cross default under our other agreements and could trigger a cross default under any agreements governing our future indebtedness. Our operating results may not be sufficient to service our indebtedness or to fund our other expenditures and we may not be able to obtain financing to meet these requirements. If we default on our obligations to pay our indebtedness, we may not be able to make payments on our other indebtedness. Any default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, including a default under our senior secured credit facilities, that is not waived by the required holders of such indebtedness, could leave us unable to pay principal, premium, if any, or interest on the Notes or other indebtedness and could substantially decrease the market value of the Notes. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow and are otherwise unable to obtain funds necessary to meet required payments of principal, premium, if any, or interest on such indebtedness, or if we otherwise fail to comply with the various covenants, including financial and operating covenants, in the instruments governing our indebtedness, including our senior secured credit facilities, we could be in default under the terms of the agreements governing such indebtedness. In the event of such default, the holders of such indebtedness could elect to declare all the funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable, together with any accrued and unpaid interest, the lenders under our senior secured credit facilities could elect to terminate their commitments, cease making further loans, foreclose on our assets pledged to such lenders to secure our obligations under the senior secured credit facilities and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. If our operating performance declines, we may in the future need to seek waivers from the required lenders under our senior secured credit facilities to avoid being in default. If we breach our covenants under our senior secured credit facilities and seek waivers, we may not be able to obtain waivers from the required lenders thereunder. "Most Favored Nations" provisions may require modification of existing distribution agreements which could adversely affect subscriber revenue. A number of our existing distribution agreements contain "most favored nations" or "MFN" clauses. These clauses typically provide that, in the event we enter into an agreement with another distributor on more favorable terms, these terms must be offered to the distributor holding the MFN right, subject to certain exceptions and conditions. These clauses cover matters such as subscriber fees, launch support, local advertising time and other financial and operating provisions. In the past, after entering into new distribution agreements, we have been asked by some of the distributors holding MFN rights to modify their distribution agreements to incorporate financial and other terms similar to those in the new agreements. Any claims of this type in the future could result in lower overall 17 Table of Contents subscriber revenue or cash outlays; however, if our subscription base is increased as a result of such modifications, it could result in higher advertising revenue. If we are unable to obtain programming from third parties, we may be unable to increase our subscriber base. We compete with other pay television network providers to acquire programming. If we fail to obtain programming on reasonable terms for any reason, including as a result of competition, we could be forced to incur additional costs to acquire such programming or look for alternative programming, which may hinder the growth of our subscriber base. If our programming declines in popularity, our subscriber fees and advertising revenue could fall. Our success depends partly upon unpredictable and volatile factors beyond our control, such as viewer preferences, competing programming and the availability of other entertainment activities. We may not be able to anticipate and react effectively to shifts in tastes and interests in our markets. Our competitors may have greater numbers of original productions, better distribution, and greater capital resources, and may be able to react more quickly to shifts in tastes and interests. As a result, we may be unable to maintain the commercial success of any of our current programming, or to generate sufficient demand and market acceptance for our new programming. A shift in viewer preferences in programming or alternative entertainment activities could also cause a decline in both advertising and subscriber fees revenue. The decline in revenue could hinder or prevent us from achieving profitability or maintaining a positive cash flow and could adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock and publicly traded debt. In addition, our delivery of the Networks continues to be impacted by industry developments. One potentially significant factor is the continued growth of time-shifting digital video recording devices ("DVRs"). DVRs heighten the impact of competition as viewers are able to increase their access to what they consider to be new, compelling content. If we are unable to increase our advertising revenue, we may be unable to achieve improved results. If we fail to significantly increase our advertising revenue, we may be unable to achieve or sustain improved results or to expand our business. A failure to increase advertising revenue may be a result of any or all of the following: (i) a continued decline in viewer ratings mentioned above; (ii) the current economic environment that presents uncertainty regarding the condition of the advertising marketplace and the financial health of many industry segments and individual companies, including those which advertise on our Networks; (iii) we may be unable to reduce our average viewer age to be within our target audience of viewers between the ages of 25 and 54; (iv) we may be unable to identify, attract and retain experienced sales and marketing personnel with relevant experience; (v) our sales and marketing organization may be unable to successfully compete against the significantly more extensive and well-funded sales and marketing operations of our current or potential competitors; (vi) the advancement of technologies such as DVRs may cause advertisers to shift their expenditures to media in which their commercial messages are not circumvented by the technology; and (vii) we will not be able to increase our advertising sales rate-card or may be required to run additional advertising spots to fulfill guaranteed delivery numbers which affect the availability of advertising inventory for future sales. Success in increasing our advertising revenue also depends upon the number and coverage of the distributors who carry our Networks and our number of subscribers. 18 Table of Contents Hallmark Cards controls us and this control could create conflicts of interest or inhibit potential changes of control. Hallmark Cards, through its wholly-owned subsidiaries, HCC and Hallmark Cards GmbH, beneficially owns an aggregate of approximately 90.3% of the outstanding shares of our Common Stock. This control could discourage others from initiating potential merger, takeover or other change of control transactions that may otherwise be beneficial to our business or holders of Common Stock and publicly traded debt. As a result, the market price of our Common Stock and publicly traded debt could suffer, and our business could suffer. In addition, the control that Hallmark Cards or these specific wholly-owned affiliates may exert over us, either directly or indirectly, could give rise to conflicts of interest in certain situations. Hallmark Cards' standstill restrictions placed on ownership of our Common Stock pursuant to the Stockholders Agreement expired on December 31, 2013. Consequently, Hallmark Cards is now allowed to pursue alternative investment opportunities available under certain conditions. On June 24, 2013, Hallmark Cards filed a Schedule 13D/A disclosing possible options it may consider with respect to its ownership of our Common Stock upon expiration of the standstill restriction, which included among other things: maintaining their investment in the Company; purchasing additional shares of the Company's Common Stock, either on the market or in privately negotiated transactions; engaging in a short-form merger to eliminate the minority stockholders in the Company or proposing another form of "going private" transaction; proposing that the Company's Board of Directors consider implementing a stock repurchase program; proposing that the Company's Board of Directors consider delisting the Company's Common Stock from the Nasdaq Global Market and terminating the Company's registration under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and disposing, subject to the continuing limitations in the Stockholders Agreement, all or a portion of their investment in the Company in a privately negotiated transaction or series of transactions. We could lose the right to use the name "Hallmark," which could harm our business. Pursuant to license agreements, we license the name "Hallmark" from Hallmark Licensing, LLC, a subsidiary of Hallmark Cards, for use in the names of our Networks. Hallmark Licensing, LLC extended the term of the license agreements for an additional period that terminates on the earlier of (i) July 14, 2019 and (ii) the later of (x) the expiration or termination of the Credit Agreement and (y) the redemption of all of the Notes, subject to any earlier termination of such license agreements pursuant to the respective terms of such license agreements. We believe that the use of this trademark is critical for our Networks due to the substantial name recognition and favorable characteristics associated with the name in the United States. Despite Hallmark Licensing, LLC's efforts to protect its trademark in the name "Hallmark," third parties may infringe or misappropriate the name "Hallmark," which could harm our business. Further, in the event of bankruptcy proceedings relating to Hallmark Licensing, LLC or Hallmark Cards, a bankruptcy court could conclude that the license agreements are executory contracts and, subject to certain legal requirements, the bankruptcy trustee may either assume or reject the license agreements. Rejection of the license agreements could prevent us from continuing to use the "Hallmark" name. The loss of our license rights to use the name "Hallmark" could substantially harm our business. If our Federal Tax Deconsolidation is challenged, the Company could owe substantial tax payments to Hallmark Cards. The Federal Tax Deconsolidation had a significant impact on the Company's future estimated cash flows. Amounts previously budgeted for cash payments for taxable amounts due under the Tax Sharing Agreement are now available for the pay down of debt and other uses. Under the terms of the Federal Tax Deconsolidation, however, the Company agreed that if any taxing authority determines that the 19 Table of Contents Federal Tax Deconsolidation did not result in the Company no longer being a member of the Hallmark Cards' consolidated federal tax group, then the Tax Sharing Agreement (as defined below) will be deemed to have been continuously in effect. If, in the future, the Tax Sharing Agreement is deemed to have been continuously in effect, the Company would not be permitted to access its NOLs and could be obligated to reimburse substantial tax payments to Hallmark Cards. If our third-party suppliers fail to provide us with network infrastructure services on a timely basis, our costs could increase and our growth could be hindered. We currently rely on third parties to supply key network infrastructure services, including uplink, playback, transmission and satellite services to our market, which are available only from limited sources. We have occasionally experienced outages, delays and other problems in receiving communications equipment, services and facilities and may, in the future, be unable to obtain such services, equipment or facilities on the scale and within the time frames required by us on terms we find acceptable, or at all. If we are unable to obtain, or if we experience a delay in the delivery of, such services, we may be forced to incur significant unanticipated expenses to secure alternative third party suppliers or adjust our operations, which could hinder our growth and reduce our revenue and potential profitability. If we are unable to retain key executives and other personnel, our growth could be inhibited and our business harmed. Our success depends on the expertise and continued service of our executive officers and key employees of our subsidiaries. If we fail to attract, hire or retain the necessary personnel, or if we lose the services of our key executives, we may be unable to implement our business plan or keep pace with developing trends in our industry. The amount of our goodwill may hinder our ability to achieve profitability. As a result of our acquisitions of all the common interests in Crown Media United States, we have recorded a significant amount of goodwill. We are required to periodically review whether the value of our goodwill has been impaired. If we are required to write down our goodwill, our results of operations, stockholders' equity could be materially adversely affected. Our stock price may be volatile and could decline substantially. The stock market has, from time to time, experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Many factors may cause the market price for our Common Stock to decline, including the following: •failure of our operating results to meet the expectations of investors in any quarter; •economic conditions that adversely affect our advertising rates or our number of subscribers; •material announcements by us or our competitors; •governmental regulatory action; •technological innovations by competitors or competing technologies; •perceptions by the investing community or our customers with respect to the prospects of our company or our industry; •changes in general market conditions or economic trends; and •failure by us to renew major distribution agreements. 20 Table of Contents Additionally, of the approximately 359.7 million shares of the Company's outstanding Common Stock, only 34.8 million shares (approximately 9.7%), are held by non-affiliates of the Company. The Company's stock ownership structure may also be a cause of volatility in the market price of the Company's Common Stock. Risks Relating to Our Industry The recent change in the television rating system in the United States could reduce our Networks revenue and our ability to achieve profitability. Our domestic advertising revenue is partially dependent on television ratings provided by Nielsen. Nielsen continually modifies its ratings system to accommodate emerging technologies and ongoing changes in the U.S. population. As the impact of the changes take effect, our ratings could either be positively or negatively affected by these changes, depending on the demographic characteristics of the households added to the Nielsen sample and the nature of any changes to their measurement systems. We continue to factor the new rating information into our advertising rates as Nielsen continues modifying its ratings system to accommodate emerging technologies. Competition could reduce our Networks revenue and our ability to achieve profitability. We operate in the pay television business, which is highly competitive. If we are unable to compete effectively with large diversified entertainment companies that have substantially greater resources than we have, our operating margins and market share could be reduced, and the growth of our business inhibited. In particular, we compete for distribution with other pay television networks and, when distribution is obtained, for viewers and advertisers with pay television networks, broadcast television networks, radio, the Internet and other emerging media. We also compete, to varying degrees, with other leisure-time activities such as movie theaters, the Internet, radio, print media, electronic games and other alternative sources of entertainment and information. Future technological developments may affect competition within this business. A continuing trend towards business combinations and alliances in the entertainment industry may create significant new competitors for us or intensify existing competition. Many of these combined entities have more than one network and resources far greater than ours. These combined entities may provide bundled packages of programming, delivery and other services that compete directly with the products we offer. We may need to reduce our prices or license additional programming to remain competitive, and we may be unable to sustain future pricing levels as competition increases. Our failure to achieve or sustain market acceptance of our programming at desired pricing levels could impair our ability to achieve profitability or positive cash flow, which would harm our business. Distributors in the United States may attempt to pressure pay TV networks having lower viewership, such as our Networks, to accept decreasing amounts for subscriber fees or to allow carriage of the Networks without the payment of subscriber fees. Factors that may lead to this pressure include the number of competing pay TV networks, the limited space available on services of distributors in the United States and the desire of distributors to maintain or reduce costs. Any reduction in subscriber fees revenue now or in the future could have a material impact on our operating results and cash flow. New distribution technologies may fundamentally change the way we distribute our Networks and could significantly decrease our revenue or require us to incur significant capital expenditures. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and adapt to technological changes and to offer, on a timely basis, services that meet customer demands and evolving industry standards. The pay television industry has been, and is likely to continue to be, subject to 21 Table of Contents •rapid and significant technological change, including continuing developments in technology which do not presently have widely accepted standards; and •frequent introductions of new services and alternative technologies, including new technologies for providing video services. For example, the advent of digital technology is likely to accelerate the convergence of broadcast, telecommunications, Internet and other media and could result in material changes in the economics, regulations, intellectual property usage and technical platforms on which our business relies, including lower retail rates for video services. These changes could fundamentally affect the scale, source, and volatility of our revenue streams, cost structures, and operating results, and may require us to significantly change our operations. We also rely in part on third parties for the development of, and access to, communications and network technology. As a result, we may be unable to distribute our content via new technology on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms, which could harm our business and prospects. Moreover, the increased capacity of digital distribution platforms, may reduce the competition for the right to carry networks and allow development of extra services at low incremental cost. These lower incremental costs could lower barriers to entry for competing networks, and place pressure on our operating margins and market position. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 