Item 1A. Risk Factors We have successfully deployed a small number of Smart Energy Matrix™ in our commercial design. However, we may not be successful in volume production or even if we are, we may fail to meet our commercial production targets. We have designed, built and are currently operating 3 megawatts in Tyngsboro under the ISO-NE pilot program, and have previously built and successfully deployed both 2 kWh and 6 kWh flywheel systems in limited volumes. The further development of our Smart Energy Matrix™ involves significant technological and cost challenges, including: •Making timely improvements to the cost-effectiveness of key components of the Smart Energy Matrix™, such as the flywheel hub, needed to reduce the cost of each 20 MW facility in volume production to meet profitability goals •The possibility that test malfunctions could damage our other equipment and test facility, and entail re-engineering costs and production delays •The possibility of development and production delays and/or cost increases that may occur if we are unable to establish and maintain multiple source suppliers for key components that meet our engineering requirements, cost objectives and development and production schedules •Making timely improvements to the system's design in order to achieve planned cost reductions while meeting system performance and manufacturing requirements as we increase our production volume, such as: •Cooling systems that result in component temperatures that will meet 20 year life •A balancing scheme that allows fast and efficient balancing of the rotor and shaft •A touchdown bearing system to stabilize the rotor during abnormal conditions such as an earthquake •Improving our ability to ramp up and maintain manufacturing rates. We are now in transition from low-rate initial production to commercial-scale production of our Smart Energy Matrix™ systems, and to be profitable, we will need to expand our manufacturing capabilities, expand our staff and management team and achieve cost-reduction and engineering goals. However, we have limited experience with such a transition. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in meeting these challenges. -20- Even if we are able to complete development of and manufacture commercial quantities of the Smart Energy Matrix™ flywheel system, we will have the challenge of integrating multiple Smart Energy 25 flywheels into a common facility, constituting a 20 MW Smart Energy Matrix™. This effort will pose significant technological and cost challenges, such as: •Designing the control system and interface of the separate flywheels so that they act as an integrated matrix of 200 flywheels •Meeting the technical requirements for interconnection to the utility grid •Developing a communication system adequate to meet the performance standards of grid managers. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in meeting these challenges and if we are not, it will adversely affect our profitability and our ability to continue as a going concern. Sale of plants overseas will typically require that our technology be compatible with 50 Hz. electrical design requirements. Our technology is currently designed to meet 60 Hz. electrical design requirements for North America. Failure to make our technology fully compatible with 50 Hz. electrical design requirements in either a timely or correct manner could impede our ability to sell plants in regions of the world that require 50 Hz. compatibility, including but not limited to Europe, China, and a portion of Japan. Our business plan includes the construction and operation of frequency regulation plants in a variety of locations, as well as the sale of turnkey systems. Should we fail to execute any of these tasks it may have a material adverse effect on our Company. This effort will pose significant technological and cost challenges such as: •Managing large-scale construction projects, in terms of both schedule and cost •Managing large-scale construction projects simultaneously in multiple locations •Achieving planned cost reductions for our 20 MW system as we increase our production volume To be profitable, we will need to obtain site interconnection approvals, landlord approval, or other zoning and construction approvals in a timely manner; obtain equity and project financing; organize, develop, finance, build and operate in a number of geographically dispersed locations; and participate within the market rules of the open-bid markets. However, we have limited experience with deploying and operating large, multiple geographically dispersed frequency regulation installations. If we are unable to execute these tasks, it will have a material adverse effect on our profitability and could adversely affect our ability to continue as a going concern. We face a number of challenges related to the DOE loan guarantee on our first 20 MW plant. If we cannot effectively manage these challenges, it will have a material and adverse effect. In developing the Stephentown facility, we are entering into obligations that are new to us. These include the following: •We will be entering into an 18 year contractual obligation to provide operation management and maintenance to the subsidiary •We will be entering into a contract to provide administrative services •We will be providing a two year commercial warranty on certain components (flywheels, certain cabling, containers and electronic control modules) of the 20 MW plant •We will be required to place sufficient technology into escrow that would allow the DOE to take control of the plant and have a third party operate and maintain it should we be unable to meet our obligations -21- •We will be required to meet the subsidiary's debt service obligations, computed in a fixed and formulaic manner, yet funded by revenues whose base is entirely variable (i.e., determined by auction every day) •We are being required to guarantee completion of the plant •We are being required to ensure that the subsidiary will meet operational and financial tests and other covenants There can be no assurance that we will be successful in meeting any or all of these challenges and failure to meet all of these challenges could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and ability to continue as a going concern. Some of the factors described above, such as putting our technology into escrow and other demands, guarantees and loan covenants required under the terms of the DOE loan may affect the terms of future project financing or make it more difficult to obtain such financing. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining future project financing or that that financing, if available, will be on terms that are economically viable and that required guarantees can be met. Failure to meet all of these challenges could have a material adverse effect. The commercialization of our Smart Energy Matrix™ will require substantial funds. Our stockholders may be adversely affected if we issue debt securities or additional equity securities to obtain financing. We will require substantial funds to manufacture and deploy our systems, market our services and increase our revenues. We anticipate that such funds will be obtained from a combination of equity, debt, and/or the sale of turnkey systems. The extent of the funds needed is dependent, in part, on the volume of flywheels that we produce and deploy and/or sell as turnkey systems. A large portion of our expenses are fixed, including those related to facilities, equipment and key personnel. To execute our business plan, we will incur substantial costs to manufacture and deploy our Smart Energy Matrix™ systems. If we do not succeed in raising additional funds, we will be unable to execute our business plan. If this occurs, it will have a material adverse impact on our business, including our ability to continue as a going concern. A fundamental component of our business plan is the use of project financing to fund, at least in part, our Smart Energy Matrix™ installations. The fact that we are in the early stages of deploying our merchant plants makes it harder to obtain project financing. Additionally, adverse conditions in the overall credit market further complicate our ability to arrange financing, at least in the near term. We have little or no experience in obtaining financing for capital projects. The funding we require may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. Such funding may only be available on terms that cause substantial dilution to common stockholders, and/or have liquidation preferences and/or pre-emptive rights. If we raise funds by issuing debt securities or equity securities, existing stockholders may be adversely affected because new investors may have rights that are superior to current stockholders or through the dilutive effect of new equity securities on current stockholders. We have received a conditional commitment from DOE for a loan guarantee of approximately $43 million for our Stephentown facility. The closing of the DOE loan is subject to the execution of a loan guarantee agreement, under which a number of ancillary conditions will need to be met and ancillary agreements negotiated and signed. For example, one of the conditions is the payment of the credit subsidy cost, representing the "cost of a loan guarantee," as set forth in section 502(5)(C) of the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990. This will be a material amount. We have taken steps to obtain funding from the government for the credit subsidy cost, and believe that funding has been authorized by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. We have received a letter from the DOE confirming that the project may qualify for such funding if physical construction commences no later than September 30, 2011, and if laborers and mechanics employed in performing the project are paid prevailing wages in accordance with the Davis-Bacon Act. However, if such government funds cannot -22- be obtained, we will be required to pay the credit subsidy cost ourselves and to raise additional funding to cover that amount. There is no guarantee that we will be successful in closing the Stephentown loan or that the government will pay the credit subsidy cost, or if necessary, that we can raise additional funding on reasonable terms, or at all, to cover the amount of the credit subsidy. Additionally, there is no assurance that the timing of the loan closing will be suitable to enable us to achieve our near-term business plan. In the event that we are not successful in closing the Stephentown DOE loan on a timely basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. Reductions in energy prices and demand for electricity may have a material adverse impact on both the demand for and pricing of frequency regulation services and therefore our revenue. Over the longer term, the market pricing for frequency regulation services tends to follow the pricing for energy. Hence, when the price of energy drops, frequency regulation prices may be adversely affected, which could materially affect our revenue. We expect the overall size of the global frequency regulation market to grow, in part due to the increased need for regulation resulting from the higher use of intermittent energy sources, such as wind and solar. A sustained drop in the price of energy may adversely affect the growth of these industries, and consequently, the overall size of and rate of growth for the frequency regulation market. A reduced demand for frequency regulation could result in lower pricing, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Although the market for frequency regulation services is large and expected to grow in the long term, we have not demonstrated an ability to sell into that market at a commercial level. Further, although several ISOs have changed their market rules to integrate flywheels on a comparable basis to other resources and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission has mandated that all ISOs allow non-generation resources (such as ours) to provide regulation services, certain ISOs must still modify their individual market rules for us to be able to sell our frequency regulation services in their markets on an comparable basis. We intend to provide frequency regulation services using our Smart Energy Matrix™ in the open-bid markets of regional grid operators. In some markets, there are still significant market rule changes that need to be put in place. There is no assurance that favorable rule changes will be implemented or if implemented, that they will be done in a time frame that will allow us to achieve our business plan, or that the revised tariff structure for a particular ISO will result in a market for that ISO in which we can participate on a profitable basis. We are actively engaged both with FERC and several ISOs on the development of new market rules that would allow our participation. However, the timing of when market rules for each ISO/RTO will be amended to allow our participation is uncertain. There can be no assurance that the amendments to the various tariff structures will occur in a timeframe that will allow us to achieve our business plan or that the revised tariff structure for a particular ISO will result in a market for that ISO in which we can participate on a profitable basis. Furthermore, in markets where market rules have been modified, we have yet to demonstrate our ability to bid into and sell our services at a commercial level. Our stock price has been volatile and purchasers of our common stock could incur substantial losses. The market price of our common stock has historically been volatile, and fluctuates significantly in response to multiple factors, some of which are beyond our control. The stock market, in general, experiences wide volatility that has often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations could result in significant movement in the price of our common stock, which may cause investors to be adversely affected and -23- potentially incur substantial losses. The market price for our stock may be influenced by many factors, including: •Market conditions in the conventional or renewable energy industries •Securities analysts' reports or recommendations •Our ability or inability to execute our business plan •The dilutive effect or anticipated effect of additional equity financings •Investor perception of our Company and of the industry •The success of competitive products or technologies •Regulatory developments in the United States and/or foreign countries •Developments or disputes concerning patents or other proprietary rights •The recruitment or departure of key personnel •General economic, political and market conditions. Historically, the amount of frequency regulation required in the United States typically has been one percent of all power produced. If a reduction in this percentage occurs, our business plan could be adversely affected. Various regulatory organizations, such as FERC and the North American Electric Reliability Council (NERC), as well as the ISOs, oversee the markets and can implement rules and regulations that may alter the percentage of frequency regulation required. Each ISO decides what amount of regulation it needs to procure in order to meet NERCs requirements. This can vary based on each ISO's evaluation of its region. We cannot predict how these organizations may act in the future, and if any ISO decides to reduce its amount of regulation procurement, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have a history of losses, anticipate future losses and will have limited revenues in the near term. Unless we raise substantial additional capital to operate our business, we may not be able to continue as a going concern. Our December 2009 cash balances, combined with funds from the 2010 Seaside investment, are sufficient to close the DOE loan for Stephentown and fund operations only through approximately the second quarter of 2010. We had approximately $22,605,000 in cash and cash equivalents on hand at December 31, 2009, and have raised approximately $1,527,000 during 2010 from the completion of the Seaside stock agreement. We have incurred significant losses from operations since our inception. As shown in our consolidated financial statements, we incurred losses from operations of approximately $18,944,000, $23,839,000 and $13,620,000, and operating cash decreases of approximately $20,596,000, $13,763,000 and $11,282,000 during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our business model is based on owning and operating a number of 20 MW frequency regulation merchant plants, and the sale of turnkey systems. Once we are in full-scale production, our goal is to significantly reduce the cost to complete these plants, and we believe we are on target to do so. However, to fund our initial, more costly plants, we will need to raise substantial capital in 2010 and 2011. In the event that we are unable to raise capital or the timing is delayed, it will have a material adverse effect on our ability to execute our business plan and could impact our ability to continue as a going concern. Miller Wachman LLP, our independent auditor, has included an explanatory paragraph expressing uncertainty in their audit report on our consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, which identifies our recurring losses and negative cash flows and raises doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our financial statements have been prepared on the basis of a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. We have not made any adjustments to our financial statements as a result of the going concern uncertainty. If we cannot continue as a going concern, we may have to liquidate our assets and may receive significantly -24- less than the values at which they are carried on our financial statements. Any shortfall in the proceeds from the liquidation of our assets would directly reduce the amounts that holders of our common stock could receive in liquidation. We are dependent on third-party suppliers for materials and components used to manufacture our flywheels and build our Smart Energy Matrix™ plants. Increases in purchase prices or decreases in availability of materials and commodities may affect our ability to achieve profitability. In particular, our systems require carbon fiber, steel and aluminum, the cost of which may be impacted by the price and availability of energy and other factors. We purchase components and commodities from third-party suppliers. Delays in availability or receipt of these items or cost increases, could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our flywheels, deploy our Smart Energy Matrix™ plants or become profitable. Certain commodities, such as carbon fiber, aluminum and steel are basic elements of our flywheel systems. Some of these commodities have, in the past, been subject to shortages and price changes. Future shortages or price changes could impact our ability to manufacture our flywheel systems in a timely manner and at a reasonable cost. Additionally, certain components which we purchase are technically difficult to manufacture, and suppliers may have difficulty manufacturing products that meet our specifications and requirements. Although we have taken steps to establish at least two suppliers for our critical components, failure of a key supplier to produce acceptable components on a timely basis could have a significantly adverse effect on our ability to execute our business plan. Further, there are no guarantees that, should we receive additional funding that would allow us to accelerate our deployment schedule; our suppliers would be able to meet our accelerated production requirements, which would limit our ability to accelerate our deployment. Certain components we use in our manufacturing process have lengthy lead times from order date to delivery at our facility. Our competitive position could be impaired if we either fail to protect our intellectual property or infringe third-party patent rights. We cannot provide assurance that we have or will be able to maintain a significant proprietary position on the basic technologies used in our flywheel systems. Our ability to compete effectively against alternative technologies will be affected by our ability to protect proprietary technology, systems designs and manufacturing processes. We do not know whether any of our pending or future patent applications under which we have rights will issue, or, in the case of patents issued or to be issued, that the claims allowed are or will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology or processes from competitors. Even if all of our patent applications are issued and are sufficiently broad, they may be challenged or invalidated. We have incurred substantial costs in prosecuting or defending patent infringement suits, and such suits have diverted funds and resources that could have been used in our business. Further, our competitors or others may independently develop or patent technologies or processes that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours. If we are found to be infringing on third-party patents, we do not know whether we will be able to obtain licenses to use such patents on acceptable terms, if at all. Even if we were able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which could result in our competitors gaining access to the same intellectual property, and/or we may be required to pay license fees, royalties and/or other amounts. Failure to obtain needed licenses could delay or prevent the development, manufacture or sale of our systems, and lead to materially adverse effects on our Company, including ceasing some aspects of our business. We rely, in part, on contractual provisions to protect trade secrets and proprietary knowledge. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Our trade secrets may also be known without breach of such agreements or may be independently developed by competitors or others. Our inability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology -25- and processes could allow competitors or others to limit or eliminate any competitive advantages we may have. Government regulations may impair our ability to construct and operate our plants profitably. Government regulation of our services in the United States, whether at the federal, state or local level, including any change in regulations, tariffs or zoning, may increase the cost of our services or decrease our revenue, and may have a negative impact on our profitability. We cannot provide assurance that our services will not be subject to additional federal, state and local regulations governing traditional electric utilities and other regulated entities in the future. We expect that our Smart Energy Matrix™ plants will be subject to oversight and regulation at the local level in accordance with state and local ordinances relating to building codes, environmental, safety and related matters. For example, we may require permits from state utility commissions, and could be subject to fines or construction delays if those commissions determined that we were not in compliance with the permits. We do not know the full extent to which current or future regulations may affect our ability to build and operate our systems. In addition, if regulatory modifications change the structure of the markets, such modifications could adversely affect our business plan. If the market rules change in the future or current modifications being developed as a result of FERC Order No. 890 are not implemented, we may be required to change our business plan and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in doing so. Similarly, in international markets, we face the need in some countries to foster regulatory changes in order to enter and compete and fair, equitable and economic basis. Even if achieved, unforeseen adverse developments in the regulatory landscape of these countries could impair our ability to enter or operate profitably in these markets. The exercise of options and warrants and other issuances of shares will likely have a dilutive effect on our stock price. As of December 31, 2009, there were outstanding options to purchase an aggregate of 12,000,028 shares of our common stock at prices ranging from $0.26 per share to $9.31 per share, of which options to purchase 10,226,829 shares were exercisable as of such date. As of December 31, 2009, there were outstanding warrants to purchase 81,089,664 shares of our common stock, all of which were exercisable as of December 31, 2009. The exercise of options and warrants at prices below the market price of our common stock could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Additional dilution may result from the issuance of shares of our common stock in connection with collaborations or manufacturing arrangements or in connection with financing efforts. Our financial performance could be adversely affected if we are unable to retain key executive officers. Our future success and our ability to effectively implement our business plan depends to a large degree on the management provided by the executive officers and thus on our ability to retain members of our executive team, which are: Mr. Capp, CEO and President; Mr. Spiezio, Vice President of Finance, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Secretary; and Mr. Lazarewicz, Vice President and Chief Technical Officer. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in retaining our executive officers. On April 1, 2009, we entered into employment agreements with our executive officers that continue until March 31, 2010, unless renewed or terminated. Our Compensation Committee is currently working towards the completion of new executive agreements for these individuals to take effect April 1, 2010, although there is no certainty that such agreements will be completed by that date or at all. Under the terms of the expiring executive contracts, the executives will have the right to -26- terminate employment at any time and receive the compensation and benefits defined in the employment agreements for non-renewal. Our financial performance could be adversely affected if we are unable to retain or attract key personnel. Our future success also depends to a large degree on the technical skills of our engineering staff and our ability to attract key technical personnel and other staff. Competition for hiring skilled professionals can be intense. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining the talent necessary to design, develop and manufacture our systems and deploy and operate our frequency regulation installations. We currently purchase a small percentage of components for our flywheels from companies outside of the United States. Further, although our initial target market is within the United States, we expect to expand our business to other countries in the future. Engaging in business outside of the United States exposes us to a variety of risks related to the specific countries in which we may operate. Engaging in business outside the United States may expose us to a variety of risks, which include: •Different political and economic climates which we may not fully understand or be prepared to address •Potential political and economic instability, including armed conflicts •Potential imposition of government controls, trade restrictions, or changes in tariffs that may have a negative impact on our ability to operate, our cost structure or our revenue •Some electrical grids in other countries have different standards than in the United States. We may be unable to successfully meet these standards, resulting in loss of revenue or increase in costs •Some countries have different market structures, within which we may be unable to successfully operate or which may require regulatory changes in order for us to be paid for our services •Exchange rates in other countries may fluctuate significantly, which would expose us to the risk of currency exchange losses •Some countries have different legal structures, within which we may be unable to successfully enforce contracts or adequately protect our intellectual property •We may face difficulty in managing and operating installations located in another country, including cultural and language differences •We may face difficulty in repatriating funds from foreign operations due to limitations on the amounts that can be transferred to the United States, or taxes and penalties on such transfers. Due to the risks shown above, there is no guarantee that we would succeed in expanding and operating our business in countries outside of the United States. Failure to adequately address these risks could potentially have a material adverse effect on our Company. If our Smart Energy Matrix™ systems were to malfunction and/or cause damage we could be subject to possible product liability claims for both damages and fines that exceed our liability insurance coverage. Additionally, our stock price could drop as a result of negative publicity from such claims. We have incorporated technical features in our flywheel systems that are designed to ensure that a failure will not result in any significant damage, including secondary damage to the electrical grid. However, our Smart Energy Matrix™ is a complex system, and errors may occur during the manufacturing or installation process. Should a failure take place, we may incur substantial costs to repair or replace the defective equipment. In addition, failures may result in product liability claims against us. Liability claims may also be filed against us which have no merit, but which may require us -27- to expend significant resources defending ourselves. Such claims, valid or not, could result in negative publicity. This could have a materially adverse effect on our business and shareholder value. Economic conditions could negatively impact our business. Our operations are affected by local, national and worldwide economic conditions. A reduction in economic activity and uncertainty in energy prices and the capital and commodities markets have resulted in a decline in energy consumption. If these conditions were to continue or worsen, it could adversely affect our revenue and future growth. Instability in the financial markets, exacerbated by insufficient financial sector liquidity or other economic factors, could also affect our stock price, the cost of capital and/or our ability to raise capital. Competitors in the frequency regulation market include established utilities, independent service providers and alternative energy storage technology companies with greater resources than we have. The frequency regulation services market is being served by well-known utilities and independent service providers that use conventional generators. In addition, there are emerging energy storage technologies that have also begun providing this service. Most of these competitors have greater financial and technical resources than we do. We have anti-takeover defenses that could delay or prevent an acquisition and changes in control that could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws, Rights Agreement and Delaware law may have the effect of deterring unsolicited takeovers or delaying or preventing changes in control of management, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. In addition, these provisions may limit the ability of stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interest. Our certificate of incorporation permits the Company to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval upon such terms as the board of directors may determine. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding common stock. Although we have no present intention of issuing preferred stock, issuance of a substantial number of preferred shares could adversely affect the price of our common stock. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and our by-laws provide that: •Our directors may only be removed for cause by a majority of the outstanding capital stock entitled to vote in the election of directors •Our stockholders do not have the power to call special meetings of stockholders •The provisions relating to the removal of directors and calling of special stockholder meetings may only be amended by a 662/3% vote of the outstanding shares of common stock, voting together as a single class. These provisions make it more difficult for our stockholders to change the composition of the board of directors, as well as approve transactions they may deem to be in their best interests but that are not approved by the board of directors. Pursuant to a Rights Agreement, dated as of September 25, 2002, between the Company and Computershare Trust Company, N.A. (fka Equiserve Trust Company, N.A.), as Rights Agent, as subsequently amended, we issued rights as a dividend on common stock on October 7, 2002, each of which entitles the holder to purchase 1/100th of a share of newly issued preferred stock for $22.50 in -28- the event that any person not approved by the board of directors acquires more than 15% of our outstanding common stock, or in the event of an acquisition by another company, $22.50 worth of the common stock of the other company at half its market value (in each case the rights held by the acquiring person are not exercisable and become void). The Rights Agreement, as amended, may have the effect of discouraging a third party from making an offer to acquire us without the support of our Board of Directors, even if such an offer would be at a premium to the market price of our common stock at the time. Our stock may be removed from The Nasdaq Stock Market. On September 16, 2009, we received a letter from the Nasdaq Stock Market indicating that for the previous 30 consecutive business days, the bid price of our common stock had closed below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued inclusion on The Nasdaq Stock Market based on Marketplace Rule 5550(a)(2). In accordance with Marketplace Rule 5810(c)(3)(A), we have been provided 180 calendar days, or until March 15, 2010, to regain compliance. We will not be able to satisfy Rule 5550(a)(2), under which our common stock must have a closing bid price of $1.00 or more for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days before March 15, 2010. As of the date of this filing, we have not had a closing bid price over $1.00. The Nasdaq Stock Market Staff will notify us that we do not comply with this rule. However, we expect to be granted an additional grace period of 180 days to achieve compliance. To obtain this additional 180 day grace period, we must meet the initial listing criteria, with the exception of the bid price, for the Nasdaq Stock Market. We believe we satisfy this requirement. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to meet The Nasdaq Stock Market's minimum bid price requirements within the extended grace period and therefore may lose our eligibility for quotation on The Nasdaq Stock Market. Should our stock lose its eligibility to be quoted on The Nasdaq Stock Market, we will seek to have our stock quoted on the OTCBB. While we know of no reason that our stock will not be accepted for quotation on OTCBB, we cannot guarantee that acceptance. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 