Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as other information contained in or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the possible adverse events described below actually occur, our business, results of operations, or financial condition would likely suffer and the market price of our common stock could decline. 8 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business A substantial portion of our revenue is generated by our key clients; a significant loss of business with any of these clients would reduce our revenues and our results of operations and financial condition could deteriorate due to lower revenue. Our top five client contracts accounted for approximately 69% of our total revenues in 2010. Entities affiliated with Expedia, our largest client, accounted for approximately 44% of our revenue in 2010. Our clients can generally terminate their agreements with us if we do not meet specified performance or other criteria. Some clients, including Expedia, can terminate these agreements without cause upon notice and/or payment of specified fees. If agreements with these or other key clients are terminated, or if we are unable to negotiate favorable renewal terms, our revenues and operating results would be significantly diminished. Expedia has been a client since its launch in 1996, and is currently under contract through December 31, 2012. We expect that 2011 revenues from Expedia will be approximately $10 million less than their 2010 level. We can give no assurance that we will retain any business from Expedia during the current contract term or beyond. In general, reduced airline capacity results in lower transaction volumes for us. Based on our expectation of reduced revenues from Expedia and from lower transaction volumes generally, it is likely that our revenues, operating results and cash flows will be adversely impacted and the impact will be material, unless sufficiently offset by new revenue growth, further cost reductions, or a combination of the two. Additionally, many of our large clients prepay us for our services. Consequently, if we were to lose one or more of such prepayment arrangements, our liquidity and working capital would be affected, which could harm our operating results and cash flows. We experience volatility in the volume of transactions we service; such volatility may negatively impact our ability to provide consistent services and strain our operational capabilities. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience significant levels of volatility in the volume of travel transactions we service. This volatility is attributable to a number of factors, including travel industry conditions and promotional programs by our clients. Significant or unanticipated increases in transaction volume have strained and may continue to strain our operational capabilities, leading to higher costs and lower quality of service. In addition, we may experience significantly lower transaction volume than expected, which would lead to decreased revenues and underutilization of our resources. Our failure to address unanticipated transaction volume may decrease our profitability and harm our relationships with our clients. We also experience volatility in the number and scope of project requests for the customization of our products and services. There can be no assurance that we will be able to accurately forecast volatility related to project requests and that we will be able to meet all client project delivery mandates in a manner satisfactory to our clients. We also have experienced and expect to continue to experience seasonal fluctuations in our business. Business and consumer travel bookings typically decline during the fourth quarter of each calendar year. This seasonality has caused, and will likely continue to cause, quarterly fluctuations in our operating results. Failures of our software, hardware, and other systems could increase our operating costs, subject us to monetary damages, undermine our clients’ confidence in our reliability, and cause us to lose clients or prevent us from gaining new clients. Delivering our services requires the successful integration and operation of a network of software, computer hardware, and telecommunications equipment. A failure of any element in this network could partially or completely disrupt our activities, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or 9 Table of Contents results of operations by causing us to lose clients, prevent us from gaining new clients, or result in our owing monetary damages. Third parties provide some of these elements and, accordingly, they are not within our control. In addition, this network is vulnerable to interruption from power failures, telecommunications outages, natural disasters, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, and other network service outages and disruptions. The loss of one or more of our facilities or failures of our software, hardware, and other systems could result in delays, service interruptions, service errors or loss of critical data and, therefore, significantly undermine our clients’ confidence in our reliability and diminish the TRX brand name. We cannot guarantee that our back-up systems or disaster recovery plans will adequately protect against such failures. These failures or other interruptions may be costly to remedy as our business interruption or other insurance may not protect us fully against any losses that may result. Interruptions in our ability to access third-party computer systems could impair the quality of our service. We and our clients rely on third-party computer systems, including the computerized reservation systems serving the airline industry, to make and complete travel reservations. We also rely on the compatibility of our proprietary software with these computer systems. Interruptions in our ability to access these systems or the failure of our software to interact with these systems would significantly harm our business and operating results by causing us to lose clients, preventing us from gaining new clients, or resulting in our owing monetary damages. Failure to meet our clients’ performance expectations and to provide their customers with high quality customer service could cause us to lose clients or prevent us from gaining new clients. Our clients expect us to maintain high levels of service quality for their businesses. In many cases, specific performance criteria such as service levels, average response time, and timely processing are included in our contracts with clients. Any failure by us to meet specified or otherwise expected performance criteria or to provide the level of service required by our clients could lead to financial penalties, the deterioration of our relationships with our clients, and a loss of credibility in the marketplace. Dissatisfied clients may choose to terminate or not renew their contracts with us or seek services from other sources. This could reduce our revenues and harm our operating results, as well as make it more difficult to attract new clients. Our strategy of sales through distributors may not be successful. We currently sell our products and services directly, as well as through a network of distributors, such as American Express, Expedia, Inc. and its affiliates and BCD Travel. In many cases we must rely on the efforts of our partners to sell and implement our products and services. Expected growth may not materialize as quickly as we are anticipating or at all, or distributors may decide to discontinue this relationship with us. Additionally, poor performance by our partners could cause harm to our reputation with the end user corporations and travelers. Our sales and implementation cycle is lengthy and variable, depends upon factors outside our control, and could cause us to expend significant time and resources prior to earning associated revenues. The typical sales cycle, whether direct sales or through our distributor network, for our services is lengthy and unpredictable, requires pre-purchase evaluation by a significant number of employees in our clients’ organizations, and often involves a significant operational decision by our clients. Moreover, a purchase decision by a potential large client typically requires the approval of several senior decision makers. Our sales cycle for our larger clients is generally between six and eighteen months. Additionally, the implementation and testing of our services can take up to one year, and unexpected implementation delays and difficulties can occur. This lengthy and variable sales and implementation cycle may have a negative impact on the timing of our revenues, causing our revenues and operating results to vary significantly from period to period. 10 Table of Contents We have a history of net losses, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to sustain profitability. We incurred net losses in every year of our operations prior to 2008. We incurred a net loss of $44.0 million in 2009 and had an accumulated deficit of $94.4 million at the end of 2010. Although we experienced net income in 2010, we cannot assure you that we will be able to sustain levels of profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Our results of operations will be harmed if our revenues do not increase or are insufficient for us to achieve or sustain profitability. Failure to manage our growth, or to recruit or retain qualified employees, could reduce our revenues or net income. Rapid expansion strains our infrastructure, management, internal controls and financial systems. We may not be able to effectively manage our future expansion. New clients and the expansion of services from existing clients may cause rapid increases to our transaction volumes. Rapid increases in transaction volumes can inhibit our ability to train and integrate our new employees. Inadequate training and integration of our employees may result in inefficiencies in our workforce and may reduce our revenues or net income. We are also heavily dependent on our employees to provide the high level of service our clients expect. If we cannot recruit and retain enough qualified and skilled employees, the growth of our business may be limited. Our ability to provide services to clients and grow our business depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. If our employee turnover rate increases significantly, our recruiting and training costs could rise, and our operating efficiency and productivity could decline. We may not be able to recruit or retain the caliber of employees required to carry out essential functions at the pace necessary to sustain or grow our business. If we are not successful in adapting to changes in technology made by the major GDSs or integrating our systems with those of alternatives to the major GDSs, we may lose clients and market share. Most of our transaction processing originates from traditional GDSs and, in general, our current solutions are tightly integrated with the four major GDS providers. Unforeseen changes in technologies, standards or procedures at any of the GDS providers could make it difficult for us to integrate our systems. Also, travel industry deregulation has resulted in the emergence of alternatives to the traditional GDS providers. Moreover, significant volumes of travel transactions from our clients may migrate to these alternatives. If we are not successful in integrating our systems with GDS alternatives as they evolve, we may lose clients and market share. Our ability to increase our revenues will depend upon introducing new products and services, and if the marketplace does not accept these new products and services, our revenues may not increase or may decline. To increase our revenues, we must enhance and improve existing products and continue to introduce new products and new versions of existing products that satisfy increasingly sophisticated client requirements and achieve market acceptance. Products and services that we plan to market in the future are in various stages of development or are a result of recent acquisitions, and we are in the process of integrating them into TRX. Significant human and capital investment is often made to develop and launch new products and services and to discontinue old products and services. We cannot assure you that the marketplace will accept our new products and services. If our current or potential clients are not willing to switch to or adopt our new products and services, our ability to increase revenues will be significantly impaired. 11 Table of Contents We may seek to diversify our revenue streams by serving many different industry segments. If we are not successful in serving industry segments other than the travel and travel-related industries we currently serve, we may not be successful in capturing these potential revenue streams or recapturing expenditures pursuing these diversified revenue streams. We may seek to adapt our products and services to industries other than the travel and travel-related industries upon which we currently depend. Our ability to increase our revenues will depend on how effectively we are able to modify and enhance our software, technology and networks in the future to address the various needs of different industry segments. If we are unable to accurately anticipate the needs of industry segments other than the travel and travel-related industries we currently serve, if costs associated with serving additional industries are higher than expected, or if we are not successful in marketing our solutions to new industries, we may be unable to profitably grow our revenues. If we fail to keep up with rapidly changing technologies, our products and services could become less competitive or obsolete. In our business, technology changes rapidly, and there are continuous improvements and changes in computer hardware, software applications, network operating systems, programming tools, programming languages, operating systems, database technology, and communication protocols. Advances in technology may result in changing client preferences for products and services and delivery formats. If we fail to enhance our current products and develop new products in response to changes in technology, industry standards, or client preferences, our products and services could rapidly become less competitive or obsolete. We face significant competition in the markets we serve. We have different competitors in each category of services that we offer. The market for transaction processing for the travel industry is new and continues to evolve as more agencies and suppliers look to outsource these processes. Currently, the marketplace for transaction processing services for the travel industry is comprised primarily of in-house solutions and operations residing mostly on legacy systems at travel agencies. All of the GDSs provide their own booking solutions. Our competition comes from, or is anticipated to come from, the following sources: • in-house operations of prospective or existing clients; • traditional travel service providers including travel agencies; • operators of reservation systems; • information technology service firms building customized solutions; • teleservice companies introducing online customer support capabilities; • enterprise software companies adding travel management functionality to their products; and • other outsourced providers, including providers of customer care products and services. Innovations in technology have increased the ability of travel suppliers to distribute their travel products and services directly to businesses and consumers. As travel suppliers focus increasingly on direct distribution, new travel processing services competitors may emerge that offer greater flexibility, accuracy, reliability, speed of service, or price. In addition, as travel agencies, travel specific websites and corporate travel management companies expand their size and financial resources through consolidation, they may combine existing businesses or create new businesses that compete directly with us. Additionally, increased consolidation means that we have fewer new client prospects or could cause us to lose clients. The data intelligence software and consulting services we offer are substantially tied to travel and travel-related processes. We compete against many of the traditional providers in this category. Companies offering such services include Ascential Software Corporation, which is owned by International Business Machines Corporation, Informatica Corporation, and SAS Institute Inc. 12 Table of Contents As the market for both data processing and data intelligence grows, we believe a number of companies will increase their efforts to develop products and services that will compete with ours. It is also possible that new competitors or alliances among our competitors and potential clients may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. Moreover, our current and future competitors may have significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. If we are unable to effectively respond to market and competitive pressures, we may lose clients and market share, which could decrease our revenues or margins. We could be required to pay damages due to errors, such as errors made in ticketing or fare loading processes. We depend in part on manual programming, input of travel policies and restrictions, loading of fares, and other data used in connection with the delivery of our products and services to our clients. Human errors, miscommunication and other factors could lead to errors made in ticketing, fare loading or other processes that result in tickets being issued at incorrect prices or agency commissions being miscalculated. Such errors on our part have led to, and could lead to, claims against us and payments by us for damages. Our international operations subject us to additional business risks that may reduce our profitability or revenues. A significant part of our business is conducted outside of the U.S. During 2010, we received approximately 28% of our revenue from Europe-based clients. We incur material costs in the United States, United Kingdom, Germany and India. We plan to continue to pursue opportunities abroad, and approximately half of our workforce is located in Bangalore, India. As a result, our future operating results could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. The risks and potential costs of our international operations include: • political and economic instability; • changes in regulatory requirements and policy and the adoption of laws detrimental to our operations, such as legislation relating to trade protection, and restrictions on pricing and privacy; • negative impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • increased restrictions on the repatriation of funds; • general economic conditions in international markets; • labor laws and restrictions; • staffing key management positions; • cultural differences; • negative impact of wage rate increases and other costs subject to inflation; • competition; • nationalization; and • foreign tax and other laws. These risks may adversely affect our ability to conduct and grow business internationally, which could cause us to increase expenditures and costs, decrease our revenue growth, or both. 13 Table of Contents Fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies could increase our operating expenses and decrease our operating margins. A portion of our costs and revenues are denominated in non-U.S. currencies, such as the euro, British pound sterling and Indian rupee. As a result, changes in the exchange rates of these currencies or any other applicable currencies to the U.S. dollar will affect our operating expenses and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. As it is not cost effective, we currently do not hedge our exposure to currency fluctuation risks. The impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations cannot be accurately predicted. If we are not able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, our competitors may be able to duplicate our services. We rely in part upon our proprietary technology to conduct our business. Our failure to adequately protect our intellectual property rights could harm our business by making it easier for our competitors to duplicate our services. We hold a U.S. patent entitled “Tool for Analyzing Corporate Airline Bids” (Patent #7,401,029 B2), which was issued on July 15, 2008. We also have a small portfolio of pending patent applications which relate to our proprietary technology. Currently, we primarily rely on a combination of copyrights, trade secrets, confidential procedures and contractual provisions to protect our technology. Despite these protections, it may be possible for unauthorized parties to copy, obtain or use certain portions of our proprietary technology. Any misappropriation of our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position. We cannot be certain that third parties will not infringe or misappropriate our proprietary rights or that third parties will not independently develop similar proprietary information. Any infringement, misappropriation or independent development could harm our future financial results. In addition, effective protection of intellectual property rights may not be available in every country where we provide services. We may, at times, have to incur significant legal costs and spend time defending our intellectual property rights. Any defensive efforts, whether successful or not, would divert both time and resources from the operation and growth of our business. There is also significant uncertainty regarding the applicability to the Internet of existing laws regarding matters such as property ownership, copyrights and other intellectual property rights. Legislatures adopted the vast majority of these laws prior to the advent of the Internet, and as a result, these laws do not contemplate or address the unique issues of the Internet and related technologies. We cannot be sure what laws and regulations may ultimately affect our business or intellectual property rights. Others may assert that our technology infringes their intellectual property rights. We may be subject to infringement claims in the future. The defense of any claims of infringement made against us by third parties could involve significant legal costs and require our management to divert time from our business operations. If we are unsuccessful in defending any claims of infringement, we may be forced to obtain licenses or to pay royalties to continue to use our technology. We may not be able to obtain any necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we fail to obtain necessary licenses or other rights, or if these licenses are too costly, our operating results may suffer either from reductions in revenues through our inability to serve clients or from increases in costs to license third-party technology. If any breaches or compromises to the security systems of our databases occur, including theft of our customers’ personal information, our reputation could suffer, our customers may not be willing to use our products and services, and we may have difficulty attracting new customers. If the security systems of our databases are breached or compromised in any way, our business and operations could be harmed. Our collection and processing of travel transactions and enhancement of data requires us to receive and store personally identifiable data, such as names and addresses, credit card information and transaction history records. Any breaches of the security systems of our databases could result in the theft of personal confidential information of our customers or other modification of our records. We have had incidents 14 Table of Contents of security breaches which led to the theft of confidential information. If any breaches or compromises to the security systems of our databases were to occur, customers may be deterred from using our products and services, our reputation may be harmed, we may be exposed to liability, and we may incur increased costs relating to any liability. Our business could be adversely affected by reduced levels of cash, whether from operations or pursuant to the terms of our debt, as well as our ability to refinance our existing debt. Reduced levels of cash generated from operations as well as our ability to refinance our existing debt could adversely impact our current business and our ability to grow. Historically, our principal sources of cash have been cash flows from operations and borrowings from banks and other sources. Operations may continue to generate less cash than in the past. Our current bank credit facility expires in June 2012. We believe that we will be able to secure future renewals with adequate capacity, or to generate additional capital to meet our liquidity needs. However, we can provide no assurances that future renewals of our bank credit facility will be executed at favorable or desirable terms. If we are not successful in achieving the anticipated refinancing the lender is entitled to enforce the guarantee under our credit facility. Management believes its additional sources of liquidity include but are not limited to, generating positive operating cash flows through revenue growth, further reducing our expenses and/or capital expenditures, generating working capital through our clients and/or vendors, refinancing our debt, issuing equity, convertible debt or other securities, or selling assets. The terms of our senior secured revolving credit facility may limit our ability to operate. Our senior secured revolving credit facility may restrict our ability to take specific actions, even if such actions may be in our best interest. These restrictions limit our ability to, among other things, make advances to our European operations, make acquisitions, make capital expenditures, incur additional debt and pay dividends. Under the facility, we are subject to maintenance of a maximum consolidated senior leverage ratio (as defined in the facility) of 1.75 to 1 at December 31, 2010. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in our being required to repay any borrowings, which totaled $4.2 million as of December 31, 2010, before their due date. In addition, these covenants and restrictions may limit our future growth or operational opportunities. Our common stock has been delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market and is now quoted on the Pink OTC Markets electronic quotation service, which may, among other things, reduce the price of our common stock and the levels of liquidity available to our shareholders. As announced on March 12, 2010, and in light of receiving a notice of noncompliance of the continued listing requirements from The NASDAQ Stock Market, we voluntarily removed our securities from listing and registration on the NASDAQ Capital Market. On March 22, 2010, we filed a Form 25 delisting our shares from the NASDAQ Capital Market, and trading of our shares was suspended effective at the open of business on March 30, 2010. Our common stock (OTCQB:TRXI) has been quoted on the Pink OTC Markets Inc. (“OTC Marketplace”) electronic quotation service under the OTCQB market tier beginning on April 1, 2010. The trading of our common stock on the OTC Marketplace may reduce the price of our common stock and the levels of liquidity available to our shareholders. In addition, the trading of our common stock in the OTC Marketplace may materially adversely affect our access to the capital markets, and the limited liquidity and potentially reduced price of our common stock could materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital through alternative financing sources on terms acceptable to us. There may also be other negative implications, including the potential loss of confidence by suppliers, customers and employees, the loss of institutional investor interest in our company. There is no assurance that our common stock will continue to be quoted on the OTC Marketplace, and failure to be quoted will have a material adverse effect on the price and liquidity of our stock. 15 Table of Contents We may be unsuccessful in pursuing and integrating business combinations and strategic alliances, which could result in increased expenditures or cause us to fail to achieve anticipated cost savings or revenue growth. In August 2006 and January 2007, we acquired certain assets and assumed of certain liabilities of Travel Analytics, Inc. (“Travel Analytics”) and Hi-Mark, LLC (“Hi-Mark”), respectively. In December 2007, we acquired the assembled workforce and certain property assets used by Siemens to provide services to TRX in India. We regularly evaluate potential business combinations and growth opportunities and may pursue acquisitions of other companies or technologies in the future in order to maintain and grow revenues and increase our market position. We may not be successful in identifying suitable acquisition candidates or may not be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms for such business combinations or strategic alliances. Even if we are able to complete these types of business transactions, we may face additional risks, including: • difficulties in integrating or assimilating acquired operations, technology and personnel; • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns and market developments; • loss of key management and technical personnel from acquired businesses; • impairment of relationships with existing clients, employees and business partners; and • expenses associated with amortization of acquired intangible assets and other expenses associated with a change in control. If we are unable to successfully pursue and integrate business combinations and strategic alliances, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected due to the increased expenditures or our failure to achieve anticipated cost savings or revenue growth. Risks Related to Our Industry We are currently dependent on the travel industry, and declines or disruptions in the travel industry could reduce our revenues. We rely in large part on the health and growth of the travel industry. Travel is highly sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels and tends to decline during general economic downturns. In addition, other adverse trends or events that tend to reduce travel are likely to reduce our revenues. These may include: • price escalation in the airline industry or other travel-related industries due to increased fuel costs or other factors; • financial instability of clients; • occurrence of travel-related accidents and concerns about passenger convenience and safety; • airline or other travel-related strikes; • advances in business technology and communication, such as videoconferencing and online teleconferencing; • a slowdown in the growth of the adoption of online travel; • political instability, regional hostilities, terrorism, natural disasters and governmental terror warnings; • consolidations in the airline industry; • health-related fears; and • bad weather. In addition, our clients may seek reduced prices for our services in response to changing fare and commission structures and other travel industry conditions. 16 Table of Contents Acts of terrorism, war and/or pandemic or fear of pandemic could have an adverse effect on the travel industry, which in turn could adversely affect our business due to the possible decrease in new travel bookings. Travel is sensitive to safety, security, and health concerns, and thus declines after occurrences of and fears of future incidents that affect the safety, security and confidence of travelers. For example, the H1N1 flu pandemic during 2009, the start of the war in Iraq in 2003 and the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 resulted in the cancellation of a significant number of flights and travel bookings and a decrease in new travel bookings. Future revenues may be reduced by similar and/or other acts of terrorism, war, or pandemic. The effects of these events could include, among other things, a protracted decrease in demand for air travel due to fear, military and governmental responses and a perceived inconvenience in traveling by air and increased costs and reduced operations by airlines due, in part, to new safety and security directives adopted by the Federal Aviation Administration, Transportation Security Administration, Homeland Security or other governmental agencies. Travel industry and travel-related industry participants may choose not to adopt outsourcing or may otherwise be precluded from adopting outsourcing. Our business depends in significant part on the continued adoption by travel industry participants of the outsourcing of transaction processing and data intelligence services and by travel-related industry participants of the outsourcing of data intelligence services as a means to achieve cost savings and enhanced customer service. There is no guarantee that our services will lower the costs of our clients’ businesses or improve customer service. If these cost savings or customer service improvements do not occur, we may not be able to retain clients or attract new clients. Our processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal data could give rise to liabilities as a result of governmental regulation, conflicting legal requirements or differing views of personal privacy rights. Our collection and processing of travel transactions and our consolidation, extraction, and enhancement of data requires us to receive and store a large volume of personally identifiable data. This type of data is subject to legislation and regulation in various jurisdictions, including the European Union through the Data Protection Directive, and variations of this directive in legislation enacted by member states of the European Union. Such laws typically protect the privacy of personal data that is collected, processed and transmitted in or from these jurisdictions. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if the laws and regulations are expanded, implemented or interpreted to require changes to our business practices and methods of data collection. In the U.S., government agencies continue to discuss and develop initiatives to increase airline security, including the Transportation Security Administration’s Computer-Assisted Passenger Prescreening System and its successors. These government initiatives could change the way we handle data and may result in conflicting legal requirements in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. As personal and legal issues relating to privacy and data protection become more sensitive, we may become exposed to potential liabilities with respect to the data we collect, manage and process, and may incur legal costs if our or our vendors’ established information security policies and procedures are not effective or if we are required to defend our methods of collection, processing and storage of personal data. Future investigations, lawsuits or adverse publicity relating to our methods of handling personal data could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations due to the costs and negative market reaction to such developments. 17 Table of Contents Regulatory requirements and regulatory changes may impose burdens on our business. The laws and regulations applicable to the travel and financial services industries affect us and our clients. We must comply with laws and regulations relating to the sale and fulfillment of travel services and the financial services industry. Our services are indirectly affected by regulatory and legal uncertainties affecting the businesses of our clients and reservation systems providers. We must also comply with laws and regulations applicable to online commerce and businesses in general. Currently, few laws and regulations directly apply to the Internet and commercial online services. Moreover, there is currently great uncertainty about whether or how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel and personal privacy apply to the Internet and commercial online services. As laws and regulations are adopted or interpreted to address these and other issues, it is likely that such new laws or different applications of existing laws will impose additional burdens on companies conducting business online and may decrease the growth of commercial online services. In turn, this could decrease the demand for our products and services or increase our cost of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 