ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors, among others, could cause our financial performance to differ significantly from the goals, plans, objectives, intentions and expectations expressed in this report. If any of the following risks and uncertainties or other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or not currently considered to be material actually occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could be harmed substantially. We have limited operating experience and revenue, are not currently profitable, expect to continue to incur net losses for the foreseeable future, and may never achieve or maintain profitability. We are likely to need to raise additional capital in the future and if we are unable to secure adequate funds on terms acceptable to us, we will be unable to support our business requirements, build our business or, potentially be unable to continue as a going concern. We are a technology licensing company with a limited operating history, and from our inception, we have earned limited revenue from operations. We have not yet commercially licensed our technologies. Our early stage of commercialization provides limited historical information upon which an investor can base an evaluation of our business and prospects, and we have limited insight into how market and technology trends may affect our business. The revenue and income potential of our business is unproven and the markets we seek to penetrate are very competitive and rapidly evolving. Our business and prospects must be evaluated in light of the risks, expenses, challenges and uncertainty that we face as an early stage company seeking to develop new technology and products in a competitive and rapidly evolving market. Since our inception, we have incurred significant net losses, including a net loss of approximately $18.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. As a result of ongoing operating losses, we had an accumulated deficit and deficit after re-entry into development stage of approximately $35.5 million on cumulative revenues of approximately $484,000 as of December 31, 2006. Our losses have resulted primarily from the extensive research and development and general and administrative expenses associated with our operations. We expect to incur additional losses for at least the next few quarters. We may be unable to successfully develop new technology or products, and any technology or any products we develop may not be commercially viable. We expect to incur substantial additional operating losses as a result of increases in expenses for research and product development, and selling, general and administrative costs. In addition, we continue to incur significant expenses to comply with our obligations as a public company. We may never achieve profitability. We are likely to need additional funding for our operations and funding may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Our ability to achieve profitability will depend upon many factors, including our ability to: • develop commercially viable technology by designing and engineering the SymetronTM motor, controller, alternator, integrated starter alternator and generator technologies for license on a commercial scale; 17 Table of Contents • convince our potential customers of the benefits of our technology or products; • establish relationships with motor and power generator manufacturers, automobile manufacturers, producers or consumers of electricity and other forms of power, the military, government, and other systems integrators for the license or sale of our technology or products, if any; • develop a successful marketing plan relating to the monetization of tax attributes relating to geothermal power production; • identify and secure productive geothermal sites that will produce energy using licensed geothermal heat transfer technology; • manage construction, drilling and operating costs relating to geothermal power production; • avoid infringing and successfully defend any allegations of infringing the intellectual property rights of others; • defend our intellectual property from infringement by others; • comply with applicable governmental regulations; and • hire, train and retain qualified personnel. As reflected in the accompanying financial statements, as of December 31, 2006, we had cash and cash equivalents on hand of $3.4 million and a promissory note receivable, including accrued interest (due on March 1, 2007), totaling $6.0 million. Cash used in operations was approximately $7.9 million in the twelve months ended December 31, 2006. If we are unable to generate revenue or raise additional capital when needed, we will be forced to reduce expenditures to continue as a going concern. Raising additional capital could have a dilutive effect on or otherwise affect existing shareholders, as described in more detail below. Reduction of expenditures could have a negative impact on our business as it may reduce research and development of our products, sales and marketing activities, and other areas that we believe are essential to our ultimate success. The amount and timing of our future capital needs depend on many factors, including the timing of our development efforts, opportunities for strategic transactions, and the successful commercial licensing of our technologies. Given our current business strategy, regardless of whether the timing of our development and commercialization of licensing our technologies is favorable, we may need to raise additional capital to further develop and market our SymetronTM technology, to develop our power projects, and to continue operations. If we raise additional capital through the issuance of equity or securities convertible into equity, our shareholders may experience dilution. Those securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the holders of the common stock. For example, in September 2004 we issued Series B Convertible preferred stock which included a 7% dividend and anti-dilution protection to account for certain future dilutive issuances, if any. In addition, in April 2005, we issued Series C Convertible preferred stock which included anti-dilution protection to account for certain future dilutive issuances, if any. If we raise additional capital by incurring indebtedness, it could constrict our liquidity, result in substantial cash outflows, and adversely affect our financial health and ability to obtain financing in the future. Any such debt would likely contain restrictive covenants that may impair our ability to obtain future additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate or other purposes, and a substantial portion of cash flows, if any, from our operations may be dedicated to interest payments and debt repayment, thereby reducing the funds available to us for other purposes and could make us more vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures. Any failure by us to satisfy our obligations with respect to these potential debt obligations would likely constitute a default under such credit facilities. 18 Table of Contents Additional financing may not be available to us on favorable terms, if at all. If we are unable to obtain financing, or to obtain financing with acceptable terms, and to implement our business plan to increase revenues, we may be unable to successfully support our business requirements and continue as a going concern. Our business may be materially adversely affected if we are unable to successfully utilize the heat-transfer technology license obtained pursuant to our settlement with Amp Resources, or from other licensors. In connection with the settlement of a lawsuit we filed against Amp Resources, our subsidiary received a global license (excluding New Zealand, South Africa, Canada and Australia) for certain of Amp Resource’s heat transfer technologies including geothermal, waste heat recovery and bottom-cycling applications. We intend to use this license in connection with the development of geothermal power projects. Our ability to successfully utilize heat transfer technology to enter into and compete in the geothermal and waste heat recovery electrical power production market will depend on many factors and is subject to various risks, including but not limited to: • the future growth of the geothermal and waste heat recovery electrical power production market; • the economic and competitive environment of the geothermal and waste heat recovery area and the overall power generation industry; • our ability to obtain strategic partners in the geothermal and waste heat area, including financial partners who would provide funding for development activities using the licensed technology, and operational partners who would implement the licensed technology at geothermal and waste heat power plants; to date, we have not secured any such partners; • the level and quality of opportunities to develop power generation; • the value of the patents underlying the geothermal heat transfer technology license obtained from Amp Resources, of which we can provide no assurance; • the possibility that disputes between Amp Resources and any third-party licensee or licensor of the technology could affect the value of our license from Amp Resources; • our ability to raise sufficient capital to fund our operations and planned growth, including in the geothermal and waste heat power generation area; and • the possibility that restrictions imposed by the Amp Resources arrangement will impede us from fully utilizing the licensed technology. If we are unable to successfully utilize our heat-transfer technology and we are able to acquire a license for comparable technology, it could harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operation. We may be unable to successfully license our intellectual property. If we cannot successfully license our intellectual property, it could impair our ability to generate revenues. Our current long-term business strategy for our transportation and industrial businesses is based almost entirely upon the licensing of our SymetronTM technology to electric motor, controller, alternator and generator manufacturers, suppliers and system integrators. We expect the sales cycle with respect to the license of our technology to be lengthy and there can be no assurance that we will achieve license sales in the time frames that we expect. If we are unable to successfully license our intellectual property or technology to these businesses or others, we will be unable to generate revenues under our current business model, and we may be unable to continue operating or would be required to develop a new long-term business strategy. We are currently focusing on commercializing our technologies in the transportation and industrial markets. We cannot predict the rate at which market acceptance of our technologies will develop in these markets, if at all. Additionally, we may focus our product commercialization activities on a particular industry or industries, which may not develop as rapidly as other industries, if at all. The commercialization of our products or the licensing of our intellectual property in an industry or industries that are not developing as rapidly as other industries could harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents We may enter into strategic transactions that result in significant cost and expense, but do not produce additional revenues. Our success depends on our ability to execute our business strategy, including licensing our intellectual property to electric motor and controller manufacturers, suppliers and system integrators and developing geothermal electric power plants Executing our strategy may involve entering into strategic transactions. In executing these strategic transactions, we may expend significant financial and management resources and incur other significant costs and expenses. There is no assurance that the execution of any strategic transactions will result in additional revenues. Any failure to enter into strategic transactions that lead to additional revenues could harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We may pursue strategic acquisitions that could have an adverse impact on our business We may pursue the acquisition of new or complementary businesses or technologies. Acquisitions could result in difficulties assimilating acquired operations and products, and result in the diversion of capital and management’s attention away from other business issues and opportunities. Integration of acquired companies may result in problems related to integration of technology and management teams. We may not successfully integrate acquisitions, personnel or products that we may acquire in the future. If we fail to successfully integrate acquisitions, our business could be materially harmed. Furthermore, acquisitions of new or complementary businesses or technologies could also result in changes to our business or operating model, which may be difficult to execute. In addition, any acquisitions may not be successful in achieving our desired strategic objectives, which would also cause our business to suffer. Acquisitions can also lead to large non-cash charges that can have an adverse effect on our results of operations as a result of write-offs for items such as acquired in-process research and development, impairment of goodwill or the recording of deferred stock-based compensation. We may issue company stock as consideration for acquisitions, joint ventures or other strategic transactions, and the use of common stock as purchase consideration will dilute each of our current stockholder’s interest. In addition, we may obtain debt financing in connection with an acquisition. Any such debt financing could involve restrictive covenants relating to capital-raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. In addition, such debt financing may impair our ability to obtain future additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate or other purposes, and a substantial portion of cash flows, if any, from our operations may be dedicated to interest payments and debt repayment, thereby reducing the funds available to us for other purposes and could make us more vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures. We may be unable to successfully obtain research and development funding opportunities from military and government programs. A substantial portion of our revenue to date has come from two government sponsored development contracts. Our Small Business Innovative Research (“SBIR”) grant was concluded in the third quarter of 2005 resulting in approximately $70,000 of revenue in 2005. Our FLEXMODTM technology packaging contract with Advanced Energy, funded by the Department of Energy, through the State Technologies Advancement Collaborative (STAC), was completed in the third quarter of 2006 and provided approximately $315,000 in revenue throughout 2005 and 2006. Our SymetronTM enhanced ISA subcontract with ARINC, funded by the U.S. Army, resulted in revenue totaling $44,717 during 2006. Our near-term strategy for our transportation and industrial technology segment includes research and development funding opportunities from military and government programs. If we cannot successfully obtain research and development funding from military and government programs, or meet deadlines imposed under those programs, we may have less funding which could make it more difficult to sustain our long-term licensing strategy, our stock price could decline and we may be unable to continue operating or would be required to develop a new near-term business strategy. The market price for our common stock has experienced significant price and volume volatility in recent periods and is likely to continue to experience significant volatility in the future. Such volatility may cause investors to experience dramatic declines in our stock price from time to time, may impair our ability to raise additional capital and may otherwise harm our business. The closing price of our common stock has fluctuated from a low of $3.60 per share to a high of $22.51 per share during the year ended December 31, 2006. Our stock price has in the past and is likely in the future to experience significant volatility as a result of numerous factors, many of which are outside of our control, including, but not limited to the following: • changes in market valuations or earnings of our competitors or other technology companies; 20 Table of Contents • changes in market perception of our potential earnings, prospects or value; • actual or perceived developments in our business or in the markets we seek to penetrate; • fluctuations in our operating results; • changes in financial estimates or investment recommendations by securities analysts who follow our business; • technological advances or introduction of new products by us or our competitors; • the degree of market acceptance of our technology and our ability to license such technology at rates favorable to us; • the loss of key personnel; • the high costs associated with transfer and relocation of new personnel; • our sale of common stock or other securities in the future; • additional dilution that could result from adopted employee compensation plans of acquired companies; • public announcements regarding material developments in our business, including acquisitions or other strategic transactions; • public announcements regarding material transactions or other developments involving our strategic partners, customers or competitors that are perceived by the market to affect our business prospects; • intellectual property or litigation developments; • changes in business or regulatory conditions; • changes in law • drilling conditions incurred • trading patterns of holders of our common stock; • the trading volume of our common stock; • short-selling and similar activities with respect to our common stock; and • disruption in the geopolitical environment, including war in the Middle East or elsewhere or acts of terrorism in the United States or elsewhere. Moreover, the volatility in our stock price has been exacerbated by relatively limited trading volume, which can cause significant price movements in our stock price to result from even modest volumes of trading activity. As such, our stock price could continue to be volatile and the market price of our stock may not reflect our intrinsic value. In addition, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, a company can face increased risk that securities litigation or governmental investigations or enforcement proceedings may be instituted against it. Any such litigation, and investigation or other procedures, regardless of merits, could materially harm our business and cause our stock price to decline due to potential diversion of management attention and harm to our business reputation. If we fail to comply with NYSE Arca listing standards and maintain our listing on NYSE Arca, our business could be materially harmed and our stock price could decline. 21 Table of Contents In October of 2005 we received approval to list shares of our common stock on ArcaEx and on November 3, 2005, shares of our common stock began trading on ArcaEx (now NYSE Arca). Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, national securities exchanges, including NYSE Arca, have adopted more stringent listing requirements. Although we have been approved to list shares of common stock on NYSE Arca, we may not be able to maintain our compliance with all of the listing standards of the NYSE Group, or that we will be able to maintain our listing with NYSE Arca as a member of the NYSE Group. Any failure by us to maintain our listing on NYSE Arca could materially harm our business, cause our stock price to decline, and make it more difficult for you to sell your shares. If we are unable to effectively and efficiently maintain our controls and procedures to avoid deficiencies, there could be a material adverse effect on our operations or financial results. As a publicly-traded company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. These requirements may place a strain on our systems and resources. Our management is required to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of each year end, and we are required to disclose management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, including any “material weakness” (within the meaning of Public Company Accounting oversight Board (“PCAOB”) Auditing Standard No. 2) in our internal control over financial reporting. On an on-going basis, we are reviewing, documenting and testing our internal control procedures. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight will be required. In connection with the audit of our 2004 financial statements, our management and Audit Committee were notified by our independent accountants, Tanner LC, of deficiencies that existed in the design or operation of our internal control over financial reporting that it considered to be “material weaknesses.” The deficiencies related to internal control and disclosure control over stock-based compensation, reporting of equity transactions and certain disclosures in the footnotes to the consolidated financial statements. The deficiency in our internal control over stock-based compensation and equity transactions related to the failure to properly record issuances of stock, the failure to timely report certain transactions on Forms 3, 4, or 5, and the failure to properly itemize equity transactions in the statement of stockholders’ equity. The deficiency in our disclosure controls was related to the stock option disclosures required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 148. The deficiencies were detected in the audit process were appropriately documented and disclosed in our annual report on Form 10-KSB for 2004. We took several steps during 2005 to remedy, and subsequently in 2005 and 2006 to improve, our disclosure controls and our internal controls over financial reporting, however we cannot assure you that the revised controls and procedures will be effective in remedying all of the identified deficiencies. If we fail to adequately address any deficiencies, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Ultimately, if not corrected, any deficiencies could prevent us from releasing our financial information and periodic reports in a timely manner, making the required certifications regarding, and complying with our other obligations with respect to our consolidated financial statements and internal controls under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Any failure to maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting and provide accurate financial statements may subject us to litigation and would cause the trading price of our common stock to decrease substantially. Inferior controls and procedures could also subject us to a risk of delisting by a national exchange and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. On September 13, 2006, our Audit Committee approved the selection of Hein & Associates LLP, to act as our independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006. At the same time, our Audit Committee approved the dismissal of Tanner LC effective as of September 13, 2006. The Audit Committee’s decision to retain Hein & Associates, LLP was precipitated by Tanner LC’s recommendation that we engage an accounting firm with expertise in the power generation industry. Based on discussions with Hein & Associates LLP and related inquiries regarding Hein & Associates LLP’s work with existing clients, our Audit Committee believes that Hein & Associates LLP has such expertise. Hein & Associates LLP conducted their first audit of our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2006, and did not identify any material weaknesses in our system of internal control over financial reporting in connection with such audit. However, in subsequent audits, it is possible that they may identify material weaknesses of our system of internal control over financial reporting that would be reported accordingly. Our major shareholder and Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors, Kraig T. Higginson, has, in the past, used his personal ownership of shares in the Company to benefit the Company without compensation. 22 Table of Contents Mr. Higginson has in the past provided some of his beneficially owned shares to our employees in lieu of direct employment arrangements between us and the employee. He also pledged his personal holdings in a Share Contribution Agreement in connection with our Series C Preferred Stock offering in April 2005. Mr. Higginson is under no obligation to pledge his personal ownership position for our benefit in the future. The cessation of his actions to support our initiatives with his personal holdings or the perception that this cessation could occur might have a negative effect on our financial performance and consequently on the trading price of our common stock. We are deploying new technology and, to date, we have not yet commercially licensed our technologies and we may not be able to successfully develop other technologies. Our SymetronTM technologies are new and commercially unproven. We are still in the early stages of commercializing our technology in transportation, industrial and power generation applications. While we have completed some laboratory testing, our technologies have not yet been durability tested for long-term applications. We can provide no assurance that our technologies will prove suitable for our target business segments. Our potential product applications require significant and lengthy product development efforts, and to date, we have not developed any commercially available products. During our product development process, we may experience technological issues that we may be unable to overcome. Because of these uncertainties, none of our potential technology may be commercially licensed. If we are not able to successfully license our technology, we will be unable to generate revenue or build a sustainable or profitable business. We will need to achieve commercial acceptance of our technology to obtain licensing revenue and achieve profitability. Although our technology may be proven viable, we may not successfully develop licensing arrangements with potential customers on a timely basis, if at all. Furthermore, it may be years before our technology is proven viable, if at all, and even longer before we have licensing arrangements in place. Superior competitive technologies may be introduced or potential customer needs may change resulting in our technology or products being unsuitable for commercialization. Our revenue growth and achievement of profitability will depend substantially on our ability to introduce new technology into the marketplace that we are able to successfully commercialize. We may need to incur additional expense to add to our sales force, engage sales agents or incur other selling expenses to license our technologies or sell our products. If we are unable to achieve commercial acceptance of our technology at a reasonable cost, our business will be materially and adversely affected. In addition, although our potential technology achieves commercial acceptance, the size of the potential markets for our technology may prove to be insufficient to permit us to generate significant revenue or achieve profitability. Technological advances in our industry could render our technology and products obsolete, which would harm our business. Our failure to further refine our technology and develop and introduce new products could cause our technology to become obsolete, which would harm our business. The industries in which we operate are rapidly evolving and competitive. We will need to invest significant financial resources in research and development to keep pace with technological advances in the industry and to effectively compete in the future. Our development efforts may be rendered obsolete by the technological advances of others and other technologies may prove more advantageous than our technology, including advances developed internally by our potential customers and partners. We face competition from companies in multiple industries, as well as from the internal efforts of potential partners and, if we fail to compete effectively, our business will suffer. The markets for electric motors, alternators, ISAs and motor controllers are intensely competitive. We believe our potential technology will face significant competition from existing manufacturers, including motor, controller, alternator, and transportation vehicle companies. We may also face significant competition from our future partners. If our potential partners improve or develop technology that competes directly with our technology, our business will be harmed. We also face numerous challenges associated with overcoming the following: • Our competitors, as well as our potential partners, may have access to substantially greater financial, engineering, manufacturing and other resources than we do, which may enable them to react more effectively to new market opportunities. • Many of our competitors and potential partners have greater name recognition and market presence than we do, which may allow them to market themselves more effectively to new customers or partners. 23 Table of Contents • Our potential partners may have better access to information regarding their own manufacturing processes, which may enable them to develop products that can be more easily incorporated into the partners’ products. We rely on key personnel and the loss of key personnel or the inability to attract, train, and retain key personnel could have a negative effect on our business. We believe our future success will depend to a significant extent on the continued service of our executive officers and other key personnel. Of particular importance to our continued operations are our executive management and technical staff. We do not have key person life insurance for any of our executive officers, technical staff or other employees. If we lose the services of one or more of our executive officers or key employees, or if one or more of them decide to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us, our business could be harmed. Since December 31, 2005, four officers have resigned; the former President, the former Vice President of Marketing, the former Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary, and the former Chief Financial Officer. As of March 2007, we have filled the President and Chief Financial Officer positions. Our future success also depends on our ability to attract, train, retain and motivate highly skilled technical and sales personnel. Since our Company has limited resources to attract qualified personnel, we may not be successful in recruiting, training, and retaining personnel in the future, which would impair our ability to maintain and grow our business. Our limited cash resources have in the past required us to rely heavily on equity compensation to hire and retain key personnel, and we expect this to continue in the future, which may result in significant non-cash compensation expenses and dilution to our shareholders. We may be unable to realize our strategy of utilizing the tax and other incentives available for developing geothermal power projects to attract strategic alliance partners, which may adversely affect our ability to complete these projects. A significant part of our business strategy is to utilize the tax and other incentives available to developers of geothermal power generating plants to attract strategic alliance partners with the capital sufficient to complete these projects. Many of the incentives available for these projects are new and highly complex. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in structuring agreements that are attractive to potential strategic alliance partners. If we are unable to do so, we may be unable to complete the development of our geothermal power projects and our business could be harmed. We rely on our intellectual property rights, and any inability to protect these rights could impair our competitive advantage, divert management attention, require additional development time and resources or cause us to incur substantial expense to enforce our rights, which could harm our ability to compete and generate revenue. Our success is dependent upon protecting our proprietary technology. We rely primarily on a combination of copyright, patent, trade secret and trademark laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. These laws, procedures and provisions provide only limited protection. We have applied for patent protection on most of our key technologies. We cannot be certain that our 13 pending patent applications will result in issued patents or that the claims allowed are or will be sufficiently broad to protect the inventions derived from our technology or prove to be enforceable in actions against alleged infringers. Also, additional patent applications that we may file for our current and future technologies may not be issued. We have also applied for registration of trademarks which may never be granted registration. The contractual provisions we rely on to protect our trade secrets and proprietary information, such as our confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with our employees, consultants and other third parties, may be breached and our trade secrets and proprietary information disclosed to the public. Despite precautions that we take, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy aspects of our technology or products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. In particular, we may provide our licensees with access to proprietary information underlying our licensed applications which they may improperly appropriate. Additionally, our competitors may independently design around patents and other proprietary rights we hold. Policing unauthorized use of our technology may be difficult and some foreign laws do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as United States laws. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention resulting in significant harm to our business. 24 Table of Contents If third parties assert that our technologies or products infringe their intellectual property rights, our reputation and ability to license our technology or sell any products could be harmed. In addition, these types of claims could be costly to defend and result in our loss of significant intellectual property rights. We may be subject to infringement claims, whether the claims have merit or not, as the number of products and competitors in our industry grows, and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. If third parties assert that our current or future products infringe their proprietary rights, there could be costs and damages associated with these claims, whether the claims have merit or not, which could significantly harm our business. Any future claims could harm our relationships with any existing customers and may deter future customers from licensing our products. In addition, in any potential dispute involving our intellectual property, our potential customers or distributors of our products could also become the target of litigation, which could trigger indemnification obligations in certain of our license and service agreements and harm our relationships with any such customers or distributors. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, including costs related to any damages we may owe resulting from such litigation, cause product shipment or development delays or result in loss of intellectual property rights which would require us to obtain licenses which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. We could incur significant expenses if products built with our technology contain defects. Products such as those built with our technology are subject to product liability lawsuits for any defects that they may contain. Detection of any significant defects may result in, among other things, loss of, or delay in, market acceptance and sales of our products, diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation, or increased service and warranty costs. A material product liability claim could significantly harm our business, result in unexpected expenses and damage our reputation. The markets for our technologies are heavily influenced by federal, state and local government regulations and policies. The progress of our technologies may be dependent on government regulations and policies such as standards for Corporate Average Fuel Economy (“CAFE”), Renewable Portfolio Standards (“RPS”), the Clean Air Act and Section 45 of the Internal Revenue Code. Any delays in implementing, relaxing or extending these standards or policies, as the case may be, could have a negative impact on the demand for our products and services. Any new government regulations or policies pertaining to our technologies may result in significant additional expenses to us and our potential customers and could cause a significant reduction in demand for our products and technologies and thereby significantly harm our business. Our exploration, development, and operation of geothermal energy resources is subject to geological risks and uncertainties, which may result in decreased performance, increased costs, or abandonment of our projects. Our business involves the exploration, development and operation of geothermal energy resources. These activities are subject to uncertainties, which vary among different geothermal reservoirs and are in some respects similar to those typically associated with oil and gas exploration, development and exploitation, such as dry holes, uncontrolled releases of pressure and temperature decline, all of which can increase our operating costs and capital expenditures or reduce the efficiency of our power plants. In addition, the high temperature and high pressure in geothermal energy resources requires special reservoir management and monitoring. Because geothermal reservoirs are complex geological structures, we can only estimate their geographic area. The viability of geothermal projects depends on different factors directly related to the geothermal resource, such as the heat content (the relevant composition of temperature and pressure) of the geothermal reservoir, the useful life (commercially exploitable life) of the reservoir and operational factors relating to the extraction of geothermal fluids. Our geothermal energy projects may suffer an unexpected decline in the capacity of their respective geothermal wells and are exposed to a risk of geothermal reservoirs not being sufficient for sustained generation of the electrical power capacity desired over time. In addition, we may fail to find commercially viable geothermal resources in the expected quantities and temperatures, which would adversely affect our development of geothermal power projects. Another aspect of geothermal operations is the management and stabilization of subsurface impacts caused by fluid injection pressures. Pressure drawdown in the center of the well field may cause some localized ground subsidence, while pressure in the peripheral areas may cause localized ground inflation. Inflation and subsidence, if not controlled, can adversely affect farming operations and other infrastructure at or near the land surface. Additionally, geothermally active areas are subject to frequent low-level seismic disturbances. Serious seismic disturbances are possible and could result in damage to equipment or degrade the quality of the geothermal resources to such an extent that we could not perform under the power purchase agreement for the affected project, which in turn could 25 Table of Contents reduce our net income and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. If we suffer a serious seismic disturbance, our business interruption and property damage insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses sustained as a result thereof. In addition, insurance coverage may not continue to be available in the future in amounts adequate to insure against such seismic disturbances. Our geothermal power production development activities may not be successful. Our success in developing a particular geothermal project is contingent upon, among other things, locating a viable geothermal site, negotiation of satisfactory engineering, procurement and construction agreements and power purchase agreements, receipt of required governmental permits, obtaining interconnection rights, obtaining transmission service rights, obtaining adequate financing, and the timely implementation and satisfactory completion of construction. We may be unsuccessful in accomplishing any of these matters or doing so on a timely basis. Although we may attempt to minimize the financial risks attributable to the development of a project by securing a favorable power purchase agreement, obtaining all required governmental permits and approvals and arranging adequate financing prior to the commencement of construction, the development of a power project may require us to incur significant expenses for preliminary engineering, permitting and legal and other expenses before we can determine whether a project is feasible, economically attractive or capable of being financed. We may be unable to obtain the financing we need to pursue our growth strategy in the geothermal power production segment, which may adversely affect our ability to expand our operations. When we identify a geothermal property that we may seek to acquire or to develop, a substantial capital investment will be required. Our continued access to capital, through project financing or through a partnership or other arrangements with acceptable terms is necessary for the success of our growth strategy. Our attempts to secure the necessary capital may not be successful or on favorable terms. Market conditions and other factors may not permit future project and acquisition financings on terms favorable to us. Our ability to arrange for financing on a substantially non-recourse or limited recourse basis, and the costs of such financing, are dependent on numerous factors, including general economic and capital market conditions, credit availability from banks, investor confidence, the continued success of current projects, the credit quality of the projects being financed, the political situation in the country or state in which the project is located and the continued existence of tax and securities laws which are conducive to raising capital. If we are not able to obtain financing for our projects on a substantially non-recourse or limited recourse basis, or if we are unable to secure capital through partnership or other arrangements, we may have to finance the projects using recourse capital such as direct equity investments which will have a dilutive effect on our common stock. Also, in the absence of favorable financing or other capital options, we may decide not to build new plants or acquire facilities from third parties. Any of these alternatives could have a material adverse effect on our growth prospects and financial condition. Our financial performance in the geothermal power production business segment is subject to changes in the legal and regulatory environment affecting our future projects. The future geothermal heat recovery projects that we hope to develop will be subject to extensive regulation and, therefore, changes in applicable laws or regulations, or interpretations of those laws and regulations, could result in increased compliance costs, the need for additional capital expenditures or the reduction of certain benefits currently available. The structure of federal and state energy regulation currently is, and may continue to be, subject to challenges, modifications, the imposition of additional regulatory requirements, and restructuring proposals. We may not be able to obtain all regulatory approvals that may be required in the future, or any necessary modifications to existing regulatory approvals, or maintain all required regulatory approvals. In addition, the cost of operation and maintenance and the operating performance of geothermal power plants may be adversely affected by changes in certain laws and regulations, including tax laws. The federal government also encourages production of electricity from geothermal resources through certain tax subsidies. We are permitted to claim in our consolidated federal tax returns either an investment tax credit for approximately 10% of the cost of each new geothermal power plant or “production tax credits” of 1.9 cents (plus an inflation factor) per kilowatt hour for the first ten years of electricity output. Currently production tax credits can only be claimed on new plants put into service between October 23, 2004 and December 31, 2008. We are also permitted to deduct most of the cost of the power plant as “depreciation” over five years on an accelerated basis. The fact that the deductions 26 Table of Contents are accelerated means that more of the cost is deducted in the first few years than during the remainder of the depreciation period. In addition, we have the ability to transfer the value of these tax incentives when we are not in a position to use them directly. For instance, investment credits can be transferred through lease financing, and production tax credits may be transferred by bringing in another company that can use them as a partner in the project. President Bush has made it a central theme of his second term to simplify the U.S. tax code. Among the options that may be under consideration are replacing or supplementing the corporate income tax with a value-added-tax, stripping away many tax subsidies, and eliminating taxes on interest, dividends and other returns to capital. Significant tax reform has the potential to have a material effect on our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. It could reduce or eliminate the value that geothermal companies receive from the current tax subsidies. Any restrictions or tightening of the rules for lease or partnership transactions, whether or not part of major tax reform, could also materially affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. Any such changes could significantly increase the regulatory-related compliance and other expenses incurred by the projects which, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. The costs of compliance with environmental laws and of obtaining and maintaining environmental permits and governmental approvals required for construction and/or operation, may increase in the future and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow; any non-compliance with such laws or regulations may result in the imposition of liabilities which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. Our projects will be required to comply with numerous federal, regional, state and local statutory and regulatory environmental standards and to maintain numerous environmental permits and governmental approvals required for construction and/or operation. Environmental permits and governmental approvals typically contain conditions and restrictions, including restrictions or limits on emissions and discharges of pollutants and contaminants, or may have limited terms. If we fail to satisfy these conditions or comply with these restrictions, or with any statutory or regulatory environmental standards, we may become subject to regulatory enforcement action and the operation of the projects could be adversely affected or be subject to fines, penalties or additional costs. We could be exposed to significant liability for violations of hazardous substances laws because of the use or presence of such substances. Our projects will be subject to numerous federal, regional, state and local statutory and regulatory standards relating to the use, storage and disposal of hazardous substances. We may use industrial lubricants and other substances at our projects that could be classified as hazardous substances. If any hazardous substances are found to have been released into the environment at or near the projects, we could become liable for the investigation and removal of those substances, regardless of their source and time of release. If we fail to comply with these laws, ordinances or regulations (or any change thereto), we could be subject to civil or criminal liability, the imposition of liens or fines, and large expenditures to bring the projects into compliance. Furthermore, we can be held liable for the cleanup of releases of hazardous substances at other locations where we arranged for disposal of those substances, even if we did not cause the release at that location. The cost of any remediation activities in connection with a spill or other release of such substances could be significant. The large number of shares eligible for public sale could cause our stock price to decline. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of the resale of shares of common stock that were previously restricted under Rule 144. If our officers, directors or employees sell shares for tax, estate planning, portfolio management or other purposes, such sales could be viewed negatively by investors and put downward pressure on our stock price. Approximately 19.4 million shares were free of restrictive legend as of December 31, 2006, up from approximately 3.8 million and 11.5 million at the end of 2004 and 2005, respectively. The occurrence of such sales, or the perception that such sales could occur, may cause our stock price to decline. Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in generally accepted accounting principles. Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC, and various 27 Table of Contents bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our financial results. For example, prior to January 1, 2006, we were not required to record stock-based compensation charges if the employee’s stock option exercise price was equal to or exceeded the deemed fair value of the underlying security at the date of grant. However, beginning January 1, 2006 we are required to record the fair value of stock options as an expense in accordance with recent accounting pronouncements. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 