Item 1A. Risk Factors (concluded) The ability of WGEServices to meet customers’ natural gas and electricity requirements may be impaired if contracted supply is not available or delivered in a timely manner. Sufficient capability to deliver natural gas and electric supplies to serve the demand of WGEServices’ customers is dependent upon the ability of natural gas producers, pipeline gatherers, natural gas processors, interstate pipelines, suppliers of electricity and regional electric transmission operators to meet these requirements. If WGEServices is unable to secure adequate supplies in a timely manner, either due to the failure of its suppliers to deliver the contracted commodity or the inability to secure additional quantities during significant abnormal weather conditions, it may be unable to meet its customer requirements. Such inability to meet its delivery obligations to customers could result in WGEServices experiencing defaults on contractual terms with its customers, penalties and financial damage payments, the loss of certain licenses and operating authorities, and/or a need to return customers to the regulated utility companies, such as Washington Gas. The risk management strategies and related hedging activities of WGEServices may not be effective in managing risks and may cause increased volatility in its earnings. WGEServices is exposed to commodity price risk to the extent its natural gas and electricity purchases are not closely matched to its sales commitments in terms of volume and pricing. WGEServices attempts to manage its exposure to commodity price risk, as well as its exposure to weather and credit risks by hedging, setting risk limits, and employing other risk management tools and procedures. These risk management activities may not be as effective as planned, and cannot eliminate all of WGEServices’ risks. Significant increases in interest rates may increase costs. WGEServices depends on short-term debt to finance its accounts receivable and storage gas inventories. Working capital requirements vary significantly during the year, which are financed primarily through the issuance of commercial paper and unsecured short-term bank loans by WGL Holdings. The results of operations of WGEServices could be adversely affected if short-term interest rates rose or if we were unable to access capital in a cost-effective manner. WGEServices is dependent on guarantees from WGL Holdings. The ability of WGEServices to purchase natural gas and electricity from suppliers is dependent upon guarantees issued on its behalf by WGL Holdings. Should WGL Holdings not renew such guarantees after the effective date of their cancellation, the ability of WGEServices to make commodity purchases at reasonable prices would be impaired, adversely affecting its results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Competition may negatively affect WGEServices. WGEServices competes with other non-regulated retail suppliers of natural gas and electricity, as well as with the commodity rate offerings of electric and gas utilities. Increases in competition including utility commodity rate offers that are below prevailing market rates may result in a loss of sales volumes or a reduction in growth opportunities that could adversely affect results of operations and cash flows. Regulatory developments may negatively affect WGEServices. The regulations that govern the conduct of competitive energy marketers are subject to change as the result of legislation or regulatory proceedings. Changes in these regulatory rules could reduce customer growth opportunities for WGEServices, or could reduce the profit opportunities associated with certain groups of existing or potential new customers and, thereby, adversely affect its results of operations and cash flows. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 18 WGL Holdings, Inc. Washington Gas Light Company Part I Item 2. Properties 