ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors and Forward-Looking Statements The discussion set forth in this Form 10-K contains statements concerning potential future events. Such forward-looking statements are based on assumptions by Crown Media Holdings management, as of the date of this Form 10-K including assumptions about risks and uncertainties faced by Crown Media Holdings. Readers can identify these forward-looking statements by their use of such verbs as "expects," "anticipates," "believes," or similar verbs or conjugations of such verbs. If any of management's assumptions prove incorrect or should unanticipated circumstances arise, Crown Media Holdings' actual results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements could materially differ from those anticipated by such forward-looking statements. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are those discussed below in this Form 10-K. Crown Media Holdings will not update any forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K to reflect future events or developments. If we do not successfully address the risks described below, our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow could be materially adversely affected. The trading price of our Class A common stock could decline because of any of these risks. Risks Relating to Our Business Our business has incurred net losses since inception and may continue to incur losses. Our Channels have a history of net losses and we expect to continue to report net losses for the foreseeable future. As of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $2.1 billion, total stockholders' deficit of approximately $683.8 million, and goodwill of approximately $314.0 million. We cannot assure you that we will achieve an operating profit or sustain a positive cash flow. If we are not able to do so, the trading price of our Class A common stock may fall significantly. To diminish our losses and become profitable before interest expense and to have a positive cash flow, we will need to increase our advertising and subscriber revenue. This will require, among other things, maintaining 11 the distribution of our Channels, attracting more viewers to our channels, attracting more advertisers, and increasing our subscriber and advertising rates. Risks associated with these areas of our business are described below. In addition, in order to accomplish these goals, the management of Crown Media Holdings continues to believe that it is necessary to maintain subscriber levels and enhance our programming, which may result in increased costs for programming. Over the last five years, these actions have contributed to increased net losses for Crown Media Holdings. To achieve the positive net income, we would also need to decrease our interest expense by reducing our outstanding indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health, and the restrictions imposed by the terms of our debt instruments may severely limit our ability to plan for or respond to changes in our business. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2007, our total debt was $1.1 billion, and we had $2.0 million of cash and cash equivalents and $60.5 million available under our bank credit facility subject to the approval of our Board of Directors to cover the negative cash flow resulting from our current operations. Subject to restrictions under our debt agreements, we may also seek equity or debt financing from time to time to cover our operating losses, to finance acquisitions or capital expenditures or for other purposes. As a result of our level of debt and the terms of our debt instruments: •our vulnerability to adverse general economic conditions is heightened; •we will be required to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to repayment of debt, limiting the availability of cash for other purposes; •we are and will continue to be limited by financial and other restrictive covenants in our ability to borrow additional funds, consummate asset sales, enter into transactions with affiliates or conduct mergers and acquisitions; •our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry will be limited; •we are sensitive to fluctuations in interest rates; and •our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes may be impaired. Our ability to meet our debt and other obligations and to reduce our total debt depends on our future operating performances and on economic, financial, competitive and other factors. There can be no assurance that our leverage and such restrictions will not materially and adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. Information concerning our liquidity may be found in Note 1 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Report. We have increasing interest expense, which may impact our future operations. High levels of interest expense could have negative effects on our future operations. Interest expense, which is net of interest income and includes amortization of debt issuance costs and interest expense on borrowings under our senior and demand notes and bank credit facility, increased over the past year. The increase in interest expense in the past twelve months resulted from an increase in the average borrowings outstanding, due in part to cash generated from operations being insufficient to cover operating expenses and capital expenditures, but primarily from interest accretion on the outstanding indebtedness. A substantial portion of our cash flow from operations will be used to pay our interest expense and will not be available for other business purposes. In addition, we may need to 12 incur additional indebtedness in the future. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow or that future financings will be available to provide sufficient proceeds to meet our obligations or to service our total debt. Our liquidity is dependent on external funds. Because we currently operate at a loss, we may have a negative cash flow and any unanticipated significant expense or any development that hampers our growth in revenue or decreases any of our revenue, would result in the need for additional external funds in order to continue operations. We have no arrangements for any such additional external financings, whether debt or equity, and are not certain whether any new external financing would be available on acceptable terms. Any new debt financing would require the cooperation and agreement of existing creditors. Further, as discussed in this report under "Liquidity and Capital Resources" below, we need to (1) extend, refinance or replace our credit facility on or prior to May 31, 2009, or to extend or replace borrowings from Hallmark Cards by May 31, 2009, that would result from the banks drawing upon the irrevocable letter of credit supporting the bank credit facility or from Hallmark Cards' purchasing the loans under that facility (see note 10 to our Consolidated Financial Statements), and (2) extend or refinance outstanding notes payables to Hallmark Cards and its subsidiaries on or prior to their due dates (December 31, 2009 for three obligations, July 2009 for the Tax Note and August 2011 in the case of the 10.25% Note, as described later in this Report). Upon maturity of the credit facility on May 31, 2009, JP Morgan Chase Bank has the right to elect to forego the receipt of cash to pay the principal amount of the credit facility in full, which is provided for under the terms of an irrevocable letter of credit provided by Hallmark Cards described in note 11 but instead can elect to initiate a process to foreclose on the Company's assets. Such foreclosure proceedings, which we view as a remote possibility, would affect our ability to continue our operations. Prior to any such possible foreclosure proceedings, however, the Company would consider various alternatives. In the alternative, the Company would cause Hallmark Cards, pursuant to the terms of the waiver and standby purchase agreement, to exercise its option to purchase the Bank's interest in the credit facility and the bank credit facility would then be payable to Hallmark Cards upon demand after March 31, 2009. "Most Favored Nations" provisions may require modification of existing distribution agreements which could adversely affect subscriber revenue. A number of our existing distribution agreements contain "most favored nations" or "MFN" clauses. These clauses typically provide that, in the event we enter into an agreement with another distributor on more favorable terms, these terms must be offered to the distributor holding the MFN right, subject to certain exceptions and conditions. In the past, after entering into new distribution agreements, we have been asked by some of the distributors holding MFN rights to modify their distribution agreements to incorporate financial terms similar to those in the new agreements. Any claims of this type in the future could result in lower overall subscriber revenue or increased cash outlays; however, if our subscription base is increased as a result of such modifications, it could result in higher advertising revenue. If we are unable to obtain programming from third parties, we may be unable to increase our subscriber base. We compete with other pay television channel providers to acquire programming. If we fail to continue to obtain programming on reasonable terms for any reason, including as a result of competition, we could be forced to incur additional costs to acquire such programming or look for alternative programming, which may hinder the growth of our subscriber base. 13 If our programming declines in popularity, our subscriber fees and advertising revenue could fall. Our success depends partly upon unpredictable and volatile factors beyond our control, such as viewer preferences, competing programming and the availability of other entertainment activities. We may not be able to anticipate and react effectively to shifts in tastes and interests in our markets. Our competitors may have greater numbers of original productions, better distribution, and greater capital resources, and may be able to react more quickly to shifts in tastes and interests. As a result, we may be unable to maintain the commercial success of any of our current programming, or to generate sufficient demand and market acceptance for our new programming. A shift in viewer preferences in programming or alternative entertainment activities could also cause a decline in both advertising and subscriber fees revenue. The decline in revenue could hinder or prevent us from achieving profitability and could adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock. If we are unable to increase our advertising revenue, we may be unable to achieve improved results. Although it is expected over time that our advertising revenue will increase, if we fail to significantly increase our advertising revenue, we may be unable to achieve or sustain improved results or to expand our business. A failure to increase advertising revenue may be a result of any or all of the following: (i) we have a limited history of marketing and selling advertising time; (ii) we may be unable to identify, attract and retain experienced sales and marketing personnel with relevant experience; (iii) our sales and marketing organization may be unable to successfully compete against the significantly more extensive and well-funded sales and marketing operations of our current or potential competitors; (iv) the advancement of technologies such as Digital Video Recording which may cause advertisers to shift their expenditures to media in which their commercial messages are not circumvented by the technology; and/or (v) we will not be able to increase our advertising sales rate-card or may be required to run additional advertising spots which affect the availability of advertising inventory for future sales. Success in increasing our advertising revenue also depends upon the number and coverage of the distributors who carry our channels, our number of subscribers, and the viewership ratings for our programming. Hallmark Entertainment Investments controls us and this control could create conflicts of interest or inhibit potential changes of control. Hallmark Entertainment Investments controls all of our outstanding shares of Class B common stock and owns shares of our Class A common stock, representing in the aggregate approximately 95.8% of the outstanding voting power on all matters submitted to our stockholders. Hallmark Entertainment Holdings, a subsidiary of Hallmark Cards, controls the voting of all our shares held by Hallmark Entertainment Investments. Hallmark Entertainment Investments' control could discourage others from initiating potential merger, takeover or other change of control transactions that may otherwise be beneficial to our business or holders of Class A common stock. As a result, the market price of our Class A common stock could suffer, and our business could suffer. Hallmark Entertainment Investments' control relationship with us also could give rise to conflicts of interest in certain situations. We could lose the right to use the name "Hallmark" because we have limited-duration license agreements, which could harm our business. We license the name "Hallmark" from Hallmark Licensing, Inc., a subsidiary of Hallmark Cards, for use in the names of our Channels. This license will expire on September 1, 2008. If Hallmark Cards determines not to renew the trademark license agreements for any reason, including failure to comply with Hallmark Cards' programming standards, we would be forced to significantly revise our business plan and operations, and could experience a significant erosion of our subscriber base and advertising revenue. 14 If our third-party suppliers fail to provide us with network infrastructure services on a timely basis, our costs could increase and our growth could be hindered. We currently rely on third parties to supply key network infrastructure services, including uplink, playback, transmission and satellite services to our market, which are available only from limited sources. We have occasionally experienced delays and other problems in receiving communications equipment, services and facilities and may, in the future, be unable to obtain such services, equipment or facilities on the scale and within the time frames required by us on terms we find acceptable, or at all. If we are unable to obtain, or if we experience a delay in the delivery of, such services, we may be forced to incur significant unanticipated expenses to secure alternative third party suppliers or adjust our operations, which could hinder our growth and reduce our revenue and potential profitability. If we are unable to retain key executives and other personnel, our growth could be inhibited and our business harmed. Our success depends on the expertise and continued service of our executive officers and key employees of our subsidiaries. If we fail to attract, hire or retain the necessary personnel, or if we lose the services of our key executives, we may be unable to implement our business plan or keep pace with developing trends in our industry. The amount of our goodwill may hinder our ability to achieve profitability. As a result of our acquisitions of all the common interests in Crown Media United States, we have recorded a significant amount of goodwill. We are required to periodically review whether the value of our goodwill has been impaired. If we are required to write down our goodwill, our results of operations, stockholders' equity (deficit) could be materially adversely affected. Our stock price may be volatile and could decline substantially. The stock market has, from time to time, experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Many factors may cause the market price for our Class A common stock to decline, including: •our operating results failing to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors in any quarter; •material announcements by us or our competitors; •governmental regulatory action; •technological innovations by competitors or competing technologies; •investor perceptions of our industry or prospects, or those of our customers; •changes in general market conditions or economic trends; and •failure to renew major distribution agreements. Additionally, of the approximately 74.1 million shares of the Company's outstanding Class A common stock, only 9.6 million shares (approximately 13%) are not held by affiliates of the Company. This stock ownership structure may also be a cause of volatility in the market price of the Company's Class A common stock. Additionally, the National Interfaith Cable Coalition (NICC) owns approximately 4.4 million shares of the Company's Class A common stock. Prior to entering into a new agreement on January 2, 2008, certain programming and other commitments in then existing agreements with NICC would have terminated upon the sale of 50% or more of the shares of Class A common stock owned by NICC. On January 2, 2008, we and NICC entered into a new agreement superseding prior agreements and 15 terminating most programming relationships with NICC. As a result, NICC may feel more free to sell its Class A common stock, which could have an adverse impact on the share price of our Class A common stock. Risks Relating to Our Industry The proposed change in television ratings in the United States could reduce our Channel revenue and our ability to achieve profitability. Our domestic advertising revenue is partially dependent on television ratings provided by Nielsen Media Research. In 2007, Nielsen has modified its ratings system by increasing its household sample size and plans to institute other changes in its audience measurement systems. These modifications have not negatively impacted our ratings to date. In the fourth quarter of 2007, Nielsen began measuring and providing performance data based on viewing of commercial content as well as programming content. As the impact of the changes continue to take effect, our ratings could either be positively or negatively affected by these changes, depending on the demographic characteristics of the households added to the Nielsen sample and the nature of the changes in the measurement systems. Nielsen is continually in the process of modifying its ratings system to accommodate emerging technologies. Competition could reduce our Channel revenue and our ability to achieve profitability. We operate in the pay television business, which is highly competitive. If we are unable to compete effectively with large diversified entertainment companies that have substantially greater resources than we have, our operating margins and market share could be reduced, and the growth of our business inhibited. In particular, we compete for distribution with other pay television channels and, when distribution is obtained, for viewers and advertisers with pay television channels, broadcast television networks, radio, the Internet and other media. We also compete, to varying degrees, with other leisure-time activities such as movie theaters, the Internet, radio, print media, electronic games and other alternative sources of entertainment and information. Future technological developments may affect competition within this business. A continuing trend towards business combinations and alliances in the communications industry may create significant new competitors for us or intensify existing competition. Many of these combined entities have more than one channel and resources far greater than ours. These combined entities may provide bundled packages of programming, delivery and other services that compete directly with the products we offer. We may need to reduce our prices or license additional programming to remain competitive, and we may be unable to sustain future pricing levels as competition increases. Our failure to achieve or sustain market acceptance of our programming at desired pricing levels could impair our ability to achieve profitability or positive cash flow, which would harm our business. Distributors in the United States may attempt to pressure pay TV channels with lower viewership, such as our Channels, to accept decreasing amounts for subscriber fees, to pay higher subscriber acquisition fees or to allow carriage of the Channels without the payment of subscriber fees. Factors that may lead to this pressure include the number of competing pay TV channels, the limited space available on services of distributors in the United States and the desire of distributors to maintain or reduce costs. Any reduction in subscriber fees revenue now or in the future could have a material impact on our operating results and cash flow. 16 New distribution technologies may fundamentally change the way we distribute our Channels and could significantly decrease our revenue or require us to incur significant capital expenditures. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and adapt to technological changes and to offer, on a timely basis, services that meet customer demands and evolving industry standards. The pay television industry has been, and is likely to continue to be, subject to: •rapid and significant technological change, including continuing developments in technology which do not presently have widely accepted standards; and •frequent introductions of new services and alternative technologies, including new technologies for providing video services. For example, the advent of digital technology is likely to accelerate the convergence of broadcast, telecommunications, Internet and other media and could result in material changes in the economics, regulations, intellectual property usage and technical platforms on which our business relies, including lower retail rates for video services. These changes could fundamentally affect the scale, source, and volatility of our revenue streams, cost structures, and operating results, and may require us to significantly change our operations. We also rely in part on third parties for the development of, and access to, communications and network technology. As a result, we may be unable to obtain access to new technology on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms, which could harm our business and prospects. Moreover, the increased capacity of digital distribution platforms, including the introduction of digital terrestrial television, may reduce the competition for the right to carry channels and allow development of extra services at low incremental cost. These lower incremental costs could lower barriers to entry for competing channels, and place pressure on our operating margins and market position. Changes in laws or regulations could adversely affect our distribution and thus our revenue. The Federal Communications Commission or Congress may enact requirements that cable program services be offered to subscribers on an "a la carte" basis, i.e. be made available for purchase separately and not as part of a package of services or that the services be offered in specific packages such as a so-called "family tier." Such requirements could result in a reduction in the total number of subscribers to our program services and adversely affect advertising revenue. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 17 