Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other documents we file with the SEC are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks Relating to Our Business Our recent acquisitions of Micro Linear and PDI may not be successfully integrated or produce the results we anticipate. In October 2006, we acquired Micro Linear, a fabless semiconductor company specializing in wireless integrated circuit solutions used in a variety of wireless products and headquartered in San Jose, California. In April 2006, we acquired PDI, the largest acquisition we have ever undertaken by many metrics, including the dollar value paid, the complexity, number of locations and geographic footprint of the operations to be integrated, and the number of employees joining us, which roughly tripled our employee base. PDI was also our first acquisition involving international operations, as most of PDI’s employees and manufacturing are based in Shanghai, China and Nuremberg, Germany. We expect that the integration of Micro Linear’s and PDI’s operations with our own will be a complex, time-consuming and costly process involving each of the typical acquisition risks discussed below in the risk factor entitled “We expect to make future acquisitions, which involve numerous risks.” We will also face, among others, the following related challenges and risks: • operating a much larger combined company with operations in China and Germany, where we have limited operational experience; • managing geographically dispersed personnel with diverse cultural backgrounds and organizational structures; • the greater cash management, exchange rate, legal and income taxation risks associated with the combined company’s new multinational character and the movement of cash between Sirenza and its domestic and foreign subsidiaries; • assessing and maintaining the combined company’s internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures as required by U.S. securities laws; • potential incompatibility of business cultures and/or loss of key personnel; • increased professional advisor fees related to the new profile of the combined company; • the need to efficiently reduce the combined company’s public company, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses without associated disruption of the combined business; • the possibility that we may incur unanticipated expenses in connection with these transactions or be required to expend material sums on potential contingent intellectual property, tax, environmental or other liabilities associated with these companies’ prior operations or facilities; • Possible integration-related expenses, severance pay, and charges to earnings from the elimination of redundancies; and • increased difficulty in financial forecasting due to our limited familiarity with PDI’s and Micro Linear’s operations, customers and markets or their impact on the overall results of operations of the combined company. Although the time required will vary with the particular circumstances of each business combination, and the allocation period in a business combination typically will not exceed one year from its consummation date, the costs and effects of the purchase accounting associated with these acquisitions also present challenges and risks. On January 31, 2007 we issued a press release announcing our unaudited results for our fourth quarter and fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, and on February 15, 2007, we filed such results on Form 8-K, noting that they remained unaudited and subject to adjustment. As we continued our year-end procedures to finalize these 9 Table of Contents results, on March 6, 2007 we concluded that purchase accounting adjustments at our foreign subsidiaries were required under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States in the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, which reduced our provision for income taxes in both periods as previously disclosed. These reductions to our provision for income taxes resulted in our previously disclosed earnings per share for both periods increasing by $0.02 per diluted share, as well as other related income statement and balance sheet line item reclassifications. Failure to successfully address one or more of the above risks may result in unanticipated liabilities and cash outlays, lower than expected net revenue, losses from operations, failure to realize any of the expected benefits of the acquisitions, and related declines in our stock price. The common stock we issued in our 2006 acquisitions and charges associated with these acquisitions may negatively impact our earnings per share. Based on the increase in our number of common shares outstanding in connection with our Micro Linear and PDI acquisitions, the amortization charges related to them and the potential for additional costs associated with integrating these companies, the acquisitions may result in lower earnings per share than would have been earned by Sirenza in the absence of the transactions. We expect that over time these acquisitions will yield cost synergies and other benefits to the combined company such that they will ultimately be accretive to earnings per share. However, there can be no assurance that an increase in earnings per share will be achieved. In order to achieve increases in earnings per share as a result of these acquisitions, management will, among other things, need to successfully manage the combined company’s operations, reduce operating expenses, increase revenues and compete effectively in its end-markets. Failure to achieve any of these objectives could cause our stock price to decline. Our operating results will fluctuate and we may not meet quarterly or annual financial expectations, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly operating results have varied significantly in the past and are likely to vary significantly in the future based upon a number of factors, many of which we have little or no control over. Factors that could cause operating results to fluctuate include: • the reduction, rescheduling or cancellation of orders by customers, whether as a result of a loss of market share by us or our customers, slowing demand for our products or our customers’ products, over-ordering of products or otherwise; • the gain or loss of a key customer or significant changes in the financial condition of one or more key customers; • fluctuations in manufacturing output, yields, quality control or other potential problems or delays we or our subcontractors may experience in the fabrication, assembly, testing or delivery of our products; • general economic growth or decline, or changing conditions in the commercial communications, consumer or aerospace and defense industries generally or the market for products containing RF components specifically; • the market acceptance of our products and particularly the timing and success of new product and technology introductions by us (such as our power amplifiers targeted at makers of light sources for rear-projection TVs, and our newer PHS products) or our customers or competitors; • period-to-period changes in the mix of products we sell to our customers or the mix of sales between our segments, which can reduce our gross margin; • availability, quality and cost of wafers and other raw materials, equipment, components, semiconductor wafers and internal or outsourced manufacturing, packaging and test capacity; • seasonal and other changes in customer purchasing cycles and component inventory levels, which we may be unable to predict; 10 Table of Contents • changes in selling prices for RF components due to competitive or currency exchange rate pressures; • amounts and timing of investments in R&D; • impairment charges associated with intangible assets, including goodwill and acquisition-related intangible assets; • factors that could cause our reported domestic and foreign income taxes and income tax rate to increase in future periods, such as our ability to utilize net operating losses or tax credits in certain jurisdictions and the geographic distribution of our income, which may change from period to period; and • the effects of war, acts of terrorism or geopolitical unrest, such as disruption in general economic activity, and the effects on the economy and our business due to increasing oil prices. The occurrence of these and other factors could cause us to fail to meet quarterly or annual financial expectations, which could cause our stock price to decline. For example, in the first quarter of 2005 and the fourth quarter of 2004, our financial results were below investment community expectations, in part due to rescheduling of customer orders, and our stock price subsequently declined. Our operating results may suffer if we are unable to accurately forecast demand for our products. Our business is characterized by short-term orders and shipment schedules. Customer orders can typically be cancelled or rescheduled without significant penalty to the customer. Because we do not have substantial non-cancelable backlog, we typically plan production and inventory levels based on internal forecasts of customer demand, which can be highly unpredictable and can fluctuate substantially, leading to excess inventory write-downs and resulting negative impacts on gross margin and net income. In response to anticipated long lead times to obtain inventory and materials from outside suppliers and foundries, we periodically order materials in advance of customer demand. This advance ordering has in the past and may in the future result in excess inventory levels or unanticipated inventory write-downs if expected orders fail to materialize, or other factors make our products less saleable. During periods of industry downturn such as we have experienced in the past, customer order lead times and the resulting order backlog typically shrink further, making it more difficult to forecast production levels, capacity and net revenues. We frequently find it difficult to accurately predict future demand in the markets we serve, which limits our ability to accurately estimate requirements for production capacity. Even in periods of high demand, customers often attempt to “pull-in” the proposed delivery dates of products they have previously ordered from us, which can also make it difficult to forecast production levels, capacity and net revenues. While we strive to meet our customers’ changing requirements, if we are unsuccessful in this regard these customers may shift future orders or market share to our competitors in response. We depend on a relatively small number of customers for a significant portion of our net revenues. The loss of any of these customers could reduce our net revenues and earnings. A relatively small number of customers account for a significant portion of our net revenues in any particular period. For example, in 2006, Motorola accounted for more than 10% of net revenues and our top ten customers accounted for approximately 64% of net revenues. We expect that our history of high customer concentration and attendant risk will continue in future periods. While we enter into long-term supply agreements with customers from time to time, these contracts typically do not require the customer to buy any minimum amount of our products, and orders are typically handled on a purchase order by purchase order basis. In addition, while PDI sells products to Motorola pursuant to a long-term supply agreement, the contract expires in May 2007, and we cannot assure you that sales to Motorola will not decline in subsequent periods or in any other period. The loss of Motorola in particular, any of our other large original equipment manufacturer, or OEM, customers or any other significant customer could limit our ability to sustain and grow our net revenues, decrease our profitability and lower our stock price. 11 Table of Contents Our growth depends on the growth of the wireless and wireline communications infrastructure market. If this market does not grow, or if it grows at a slow rate, demand for our products may fail to grow or diminish. Our growth will depend on the growth of the communications industry in general, and the market for wireless and wireline infrastructure components in particular. We cannot assure you that the market for these products will grow at all. If the market does not grow or experiences a downturn, our revenues and earnings may be materially reduced. In the past, there have been reductions throughout the worldwide communications industry in component inventory levels and equipment production volumes, and delays in the build-out of new wireless and wireline infrastructure. These events caused us to lower previously announced expectations for financial results, which caused the market price of our common stock to decrease. The occurrence of the events described above could result in lower or erratic sales for our products and decreased earnings. A substantial portion of our net revenues is currently derived from sales of components for wireless infrastructure applications. Our PDI segment derives a substantial portion of its revenue from the cable television infrastructure market. As a result, downturns in either the wireline or the wireless communications market, have in the past and could in the future harm our operating results and stock price. If the satellite radio market does not grow or grows at a slow rate, or if our relationship with Sirius weakens, our results of operations may suffer. More than 10% of our SMDI segment net revenues in 2005 and in 2006 were derived from sales of satellite radio antennae and related products to Sirius its suppliers or its contract manufacturers, or CMs. Antennae sales are dependant to a large degree on the continued growth of the aftermarket subscriber base for Sirius’ satellite radio service, which consists of customers who purchased the service after they purchased their car. We cannot assure you that the market for satellite radio will grow in the future, or that the Sirius subscriber base or the aftermarket segment thereof will increase. Further, we compete with a number of established producers of satellite radio antennae and related equipment for sales to Sirius in an increasingly price-competitive environment. While we are attempting to expand our satellite radio offerings beyond antennae products and to focus on the pursuit of potentially higher-margin opportunities in the satellite radio market, such as receiver ICs and amplifier modules, these opportunities tend to feature lower average selling prices than antennae products, and we cannot assure you that this transition will be successful. In the fourth quarter of 2006, we experienced softness in our broadband products business unit sales related to this transition. Sirius periodically introduces new products and new generations of existing products, and changes its price and technical requirements for satellite radio antennae and related products such as those we supply. We have not always been able to win a share of the market for such new products and new generations, and cannot assure you that we will continue to successfully compete to supply products to Sirius and its CMs on favorable terms, or at all. If the satellite radio market in general, or Sirius’ business in particular, does not grow or experiences a downturn, or if we fail to compete successfully for Sirius’ business at any point, our revenues may be reduced, and our stock price may decline. In February 2007, Sirius announced a planned merger-of-equals with its main competitor, XM Satellite Radio, Inc., or XM. The merger remains subject to required antitrust approvals and other conditions, and we cannot say with any certainty at this point how the merger would impact our business, if at all. While historically we have not supplied products to XM, and thus the merger could be an opportunity to expand our satellite radio business, there may be negative impacts from the merger as well, such as the resulting combined company choosing to focus on platforms where our product offerings are less competitive, our business suffering due to historical suppliers to XM focusing similar merger-related opportunities to begin supplying Sirius, or the merger not being consummated and resulting negative impacts on us as a supplier. Our gross margin will fluctuate from period to period, and such fluctuation could affect our financial performance, particularly earnings per share, in turn potentially decreasing our stock price. Numerous factors will cause our gross margin to fluctuate from period to period. For example, the gross margin on sales to large OEM customers has historically been lower than on sales through our distribution 12 Table of Contents channel or sales to some of our smaller direct customers, primarily due to the bargaining power attendant with large OEM customers and their higher product volumes. If, as we expect, these large OEMs continue to account for a majority of our net revenues for the foreseeable future, the continuance of this trend will likely have a dilutive impact on gross margins in future periods. In addition, sales of our IC products have historically yielded a higher gross margin than our MCM products. Therefore, increased sales of MCM products in a given period will likely have a dilutive effect on gross margin. In addition, sales of certain of our broadband products, in particular satellite radio antennae, have historically had lower gross margins than sales of our wireless infrastructure products. Therefore, increased sales of such products in a given period will likely have a dilutive effect on gross margin. In 2005, sales of antenna products increased significantly as a percentage of our total sales, which had a dilutive effect on gross margin. PDI’s gross margin in prior periods has generally been lower than Sirenza’s, and therefore increased sales of PDI segment products in a given period will also likely have a dilutive effect on gross margin. Other factors that could cause our gross margin to fluctuate include the features of the products we sell, the markets into which we sell our products, the level of integration of our products, the efficiency and effectiveness of our internal and outsourced raw material sourcing, manufacturing, packaging and test operations, product quality issues, provisions for excess inventories and sales of previously written-down inventories. As a result of these or other factors, we may be unable to maintain or increase our gross margin in future periods. Sales of our products have been affected by a pattern of product price decline, which can harm our business. The market for our products is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, product obsolescence, and significant price competition, and, as a result, is subject to regular decreases in product average selling prices over time. We are unable to predict future prices for our products, but expect that prices for products that we sell to our large wireless and wireline infrastructure OEM customers in particular, whom we expect to continue to account for a majority of our net revenues for the foreseeable future, will continue to be subject to downward pressure. These OEMs continue to require components from their suppliers, including us, to deliver improved performance at lower prices. We have also seen a similar pattern of price decline in our sales of satellite radio antennae and related products, and the products we have more recently acquired from PDI and Micro Linear are also subject to steady price pressure. Accordingly, our ability to maintain or increase net revenues will be dependent on our ability to increase unit sales volumes of existing products and to successfully develop, introduce and sell new products with higher prices into both the wireless infrastructure market and other markets. We are also making a significant effort to develop new sales channels and customer bases in which we hope price competition will not be as significant. We cannot assure you that we will be able to develop significant new customers with less price sensitivity, increase unit sales volumes of existing products, or develop, introduce or sell new products not affected by a pattern of steady average selling price declines. We may incur additional costs and business disruption in transferring our manufacturing processes to new facilities. In 2007 we intend to transition most of our Broomfield, Colorado manufacturing operations to a new manufacturing facility in Shanghai, China, where we recently relocated our existing Shanghai manufacturing facility. As a result of these transitions, we will need to re-qualify the transitioned operations for ISO or other certifications and also may need to re-qualify our manufacturing processes or products with major customers. After the transition, we expect that a majority of our worldwide manufacturing will be conducted in Shanghai. We expect to incur substantial capital expense and wind-down costs in connection with the transition. We may not be able to accomplish the transition in the time scheduled and may spend more than we expect in completing it. Affected employees in Broomfield may be distracted by the transition or may seek other employment before their positions are eliminated, which could cause our overall operational efficiency to suffer. We may have difficulty finding qualified employees in Shanghai on schedule to staff our expanded operations. Once the 13 Table of Contents transition is complete, we may not achieve the cost savings we expect to generate in future years from the transition, and we may experience difficulty in managing the transitional operations effectively from our Colorado headquarters. Any of these occurrences could result in additional costs, business interruption or disruption, loss of customers, weaker than expected financial results, and a reduced stock price. Our reliance on foreign suppliers and manufacturers and our offshore manufacturing transition expose us to the economic and political risks of the countries in which these operations are located. Independent third parties in other countries, primarily in Thailand, Malaysia, South Korea, Taiwan and the Philippines, package substantially all of our semiconductor products. In addition, all of our satellite antenna manufacturing is outsourced to a subcontractor in the Philippines, and we obtain many of our semiconductor wafers from suppliers located abroad. Our reliance on foreign suppliers and packagers, our sizeable manufacturing operations in China and Germany and our planned transition of our Broomfield manufacturing operations to Shanghai subject us to risks of conducting business outside the United States, such as: • unexpected changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements; • shipment delays, including delays resulting from difficulty in obtaining import or export licenses; • tariffs and other trade barriers and restrictions; • political, social and economic instability; • inefficiencies due to exchange rate fluctuations, differing time zones, language barriers, data privacy requirements and the like; and • potential hostilities and changes in diplomatic and trade relationships. The Chinese legal system lacks transparency in certain respects relative to that of the United States, which gives the Chinese central and local government authorities a higher degree of control over business in China than is customary in the United States and makes the process of obtaining necessary regulatory approval in China inherently somewhat more unpredictable. Although the Chinese government has been pursuing economic reform and a policy of welcoming foreign investments, it is possible that the Chinese government will change its current policies in the future, making continued business operations in China more difficult or unprofitable. In addition, the protection accorded our proprietary technology and know-how under both the Chinese and German legal systems is not as strong as in the United States and, as a result, we may lose valuable trade secrets and competitive advantage. Designing and manufacturing our products and using CMs and other suppliers throughout the Asia region exposes our business to the risk that our proprietary technology may be misappropriated and our ownership rights may not be protected or enforced to the extent that they may be in the United States. The cost of doing business in Germany can also be higher than in the U.S. due to German legal requirements regarding employee benefits and employer-employee relations, in particular. In addition, we currently transact business with many of our foreign suppliers and packagers in U.S. dollars. Consequently, if the currencies of our suppliers’ countries were to increase in value against the U.S. dollar, our suppliers may attempt to raise the cost of our semiconductor wafers, packaging materials and services, and other materials, which could harm our profitability and make our products less price competitive. The substantial operations in China and Germany we acquired from PDI and our transition of manufacturing operations to Shanghai involve increases in the proportion of our sales and expenses denominated in foreign currency, which also increases our exposure to the risk of exchange rate fluctuations. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could adversely affect our business and the market price of our stock. Pursuant to rules adopted by the SEC implementing Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to assess the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and provide a management report on our internal controls over financial reporting in all annual reports on Form 10-K. While we currently 14 Table of Contents believe our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, we are required to comply with Section 404 on an annual basis. If, in the future, we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting during this continuous evaluation process, our management will be unable to assert that such internal controls are effective. We cannot be certain as to the timing of completion for our future evaluation, testing and any required remediation. If we are unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective in the future, or if our auditors are unable to attest that our management’s report is fairly stated or they are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would have an adverse effect on our business and the market price of our common stock. Product quality, performance and reliability problems could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and results of operations. Our customers demand that our products meet stringent quality, reliability and performance standards. Despite standard testing performed by us, our suppliers and our customers, RF components such as those we produce may contain undetected defects or flaws that may only be discovered after commencement of commercial shipments. As a result, defects or failures have in the past, and may in the future, impact our product quality, performance and reliability, leading to: • lost net revenues and gross profit, and lower margins; • delays in, or cancellations or rescheduling of, orders or shipments; • loss of, or delays in, market acceptance of our products; • significant expenditures of capital and resources to resolve such problems; • other costs including inventory write-offs and costs associated with customer support; • product returns, discounts, credits issued, or cash payments to resolve such problems; • diversion of technical and other resources from our other development efforts; • warranty and product liability claims, lawsuits and liability for damages caused by such defects; and • loss of customers, or loss of credibility with our current and prospective customers. Intense competition in our industry could prevent us from increasing net revenues and sustaining profitability. The RF component industry is intensely competitive in each of the markets we serve. With respect to our amplifier products, we compete primarily with other suppliers of high-performance RF components used in the infrastructure of communications networks such as Avago Technologies Limited, Hittite Microwave Corporation, M/A-COM, a division of Tyco Electronics Corp., NEC Corporation and WJ Communications, Inc. With respect to our satellite antenna sales, we compete with other manufacturers of satellite antennae and related equipment, including RecepTec, LLC and Wistron NeWeb Corp. For our newer broadband products, we expect our most significant competitors will include Analog Devices, Microtune, NEC, Sanyo, M/A-COM, Anadigics and ST Microelectronics. With respect to our signal source products, our primary competitors are Alps Electric Co., Ltd., M/A-COM and Mini-circuits. With respect to our A&D products, our primary competitors are Hittite, M/A-COM, Spectrum Control, Inc. and Teledyne Technologies Incorporated. The PDI segment’s cable television, or CATV products primarily compete with those of NEC, Freescale, Anadigics, Inc., Philips Electronics and RFHIC Company, and our wireless infrastructure products primarily compete with WJ Communications, M/A-COM, Mini-circuits and TRAK Microwave Corporation. We expect that the principal competitors for the products we have acquired from Micro Linear will include Texas Instruments (Chipcon), Nordic, Atmel, Sitel, Infineon, Philips, DSP Group, Atheros, GCT and Airoha. We also compete in a sense with our own large communications OEM customers, who often have a choice as to whether they design and manufacture RF components and subsystems internally for their own consumption or purchase them from 15 Table of Contents third-party providers such as us. Competition in each of these markets is typically based on a combination of price, performance, product quality and reliability, customer support and the ability of each supplier to meet production deadlines and provide a steady source of supply. Market share at our large OEM customers in particular tends to fluctuate from year to year based not only on our relative success compared to our competitors in finding the right balance of these factors, but also based on changes in the willingness of customers to have only one source of supply. For example, we may have a 100% share of the supply of a particular product to a customer one year and only 50% the next based on the customer deciding to employ a second source for risk management or other reasons not related to our performance as a supplier. We expect continuing competition both from existing competitors and from a number of companies that may enter the RF component market, and we may see future competition from companies that may offer new or emerging technologies. In addition, we expect that future competition will come from component suppliers based in countries with lower production costs, or IC manufacturers as they add additional integrated functionality at the chip level that could supplant our products. Many of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than we do. As a result, prospective customers may decide not to buy from us due to their concerns about our size, financial stability or ability to interact with their logistics systems. Our failure to successfully compete in our markets could result in lower revenues, decreased profitability and a lower stock price. If we fail to successfully introduce new products in a timely and cost-effective manner, our ability to sustain and increase our net revenues could suffer. The markets for our products are characterized by new product introductions, evolving industry standards and changes in manufacturing technologies. Because of this, our future success will in large part depend on our ability to: • continue to introduce new products in a timely fashion; • gain market acceptance of our products; • improve our existing products to meet customer requirements; • adapt our products to support established and emerging industry standards; • adapt our products to support evolving wireless and wireline equipment architectures; and • access new process and product technologies. We estimate that the development cycles of some of our products from concept to production could last more than 12 months. We have in the past experienced delays in the release of new products and an inability to successfully translate new product concepts to production in time to meet market demands or at all. The second-generation PHS products we recently acquired from Micro Linear have also experienced a longer than expected sales cycle, after the first generation of such products achieved only limited customer acceptance. In addition, the networking products acquired from Micro Linear are reaching maturity, and revenue from this product line is expected to decline in future periods, which increases the importance of new product introductions. We may not be able to introduce new products in a timely and cost-effective manner, which would impair our ability to sustain and increase our net revenues. Our efforts to diversify our product portfolio and expand into new markets have attendant execution risk. While historically we have derived most of our net revenues from the sale of products to the mobile wireless infrastructure market, one of our corporate strategies involves leveraging our core strengths in high-performance RF component design, modular design process technology and wireless systems application knowledge to expand into new markets which have similar product performance requirements, such as the rear-projection TV, broadband wireless access, Voice over Internet Protocol, or VoIP, cable, satellite radio, personal handyphone and 16 Table of Contents digital cordless telephone markets. We do not have a long history in many of these markets or in consumer- oriented markets generally, and our lack of market knowledge relative to other participants in such markets may prevent us from competing effectively in them. It is possible that our competitive strengths will not translate effectively into these markets, and we will not be able to generate the revenues we expect from them or compete in them profitably. These markets also may not develop at the rates we anticipate. For example, sales of our products derived from the Micro Linear acquisition may fall below our expectations in the event of any significant slowdown in the personal handyphone, digital cordless phone or computer networking equipment markets. We may expend significant sums and engineering resources in attempting to develop appropriate products with which to penetrate these markets with no guarantee of a return on the investment. Our products could infringe the intellectual property rights of others, and resulting claims against us could be costly and require us to enter into disadvantageous license or royalty arrangements. Our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and litigation based on allegations of patent infringement and the violation of intellectual property rights. Although we attempt to avoid infringing known proprietary rights of third parties in our product development efforts, we have in the past and may in the future be subject to legal proceedings and claims for alleged infringement by us or our licensees of third-party proprietary rights, such as patents, trade secrets, trademarks or copyrights, from time to time in the ordinary course of business. In addition, our sales agreements often contain intellectual property indemnities, such as patent and copyright indemnities, and our customers may assert claims against us for indemnification if they receive claims alleging that their products infringe others’ intellectual property rights. Any claims relating to the infringement of third-party proprietary rights, even if not meritorious, could result in costly litigation, divert management’s attention and resources, or require us to enter into royalty or license agreements which are not advantageous to us or pay material amounts of damages. In addition, parties making these claims may be able to obtain an injunction, which could prevent us from selling our products. We are increasingly subject to infringement claims as the number of our products grows and as we move into new markets, and in particular in consumer markets, where there are many entrenched competitors and we are less familiar with the competitive landscape and prior art. We expect to make future acquisitions, which involve numerous risks. We have in the past made, and will continue to evaluate potential acquisitions of, and investments in, complementary businesses, technologies, services or products, and expect to pursue such acquisitions and investments if appropriate opportunities arise. However, we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition or investment candidates in the future, or if we do identify suitable candidates, we may not be able to make such acquisitions or investments on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. In the event we pursue acquisitions, we will face numerous risks including: • difficulties in integrating the personnel, operations, technology or products and service offerings of the acquired company; • diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations of our business; • difficulties in entering markets where competitors have stronger market positions; • difficulties in managing and integrating operations in geographically dispersed locations; • difficulties in improving the internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures and financial reporting capabilities of any acquired operations, particularly foreign and formerly private operations, as needed to meet the required standards of U.S. public companies; • the loss of any key personnel of the acquired company as well as their know-how, relationships and expertise; • maintaining customer, supplier or other favorable business relationships of acquired operations; 17 Table of Contents • insufficient net revenues to offset increased expenses associated with any abandoned or completed acquisitions; and • additional expense associated with amortization or depreciation of acquired tangible and intangible assets. Even if a proposed acquisition or alliance is successfully realized and integrated, we may not receive the expected benefits or synergies of the transaction. Past transactions have resulted, and future transactions may result, in significant costs and expenses and charges to earnings. The accounting treatment for any acquisition may result in significant amortizable intangible assets, which when amortized will negatively affect our consolidated results of operations. The accounting treatment for any acquisition may result in significant goodwill, which, if impaired, will negatively affect our consolidated results of operations. The accounting treatment for any acquisition may also result in significant in-process research and development charges, which will negatively affect our consolidated results of operations in the period in which an acquisition is consummated. In addition, any completed, pending or future transactions may result in unanticipated expenses or tax or other liabilities associated with the acquired assets or businesses. Furthermore, we may incur indebtedness or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisitions. The incurrence of indebtedness could limit our operating flexibility and be detrimental to our results of operations, and the issuance of equity securities could be dilutive to our existing stockholders. Any or all of the above factors may differ from the investment community’s expectations in a given quarter, which could negatively affect our stock price. We may experience difficulties in managing any future growth. Our ability to successfully do business in a rapidly evolving market requires us to effectively plan and manage any current and future growth. Our ability to manage future growth will be dependent in large part on a number of factors, including: • maintaining access to sufficient manufacturing capacity to meet customer demands; • arranging for sufficient supply of key components to avoid shortages of components that are critical to our products; • building out our administrative infrastructure at the proper pace to support any current and future sales growth while maintaining operating efficiency; • adhering to our high quality and process execution standards, particularly as we hire and train new employees and during periods of high volume; • managing the various components of our working capital effectively in periods where cash on hand is limited; • upgrading our operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, including improvement of our accounting and internal management systems; and • maintaining high levels of customer satisfaction. If we are unable to effectively manage any future growth, our operations may be impacted and we may experience delays in delivering products to our customers. Any such delays could affect such customers’ ability to deliver products in accordance with their planned manufacturing schedules, which could adversely affect customer relationships. We may also be required to build additional component inventory in order to offset expected future component shortages. If we do not manage any future growth properly, our business and stock price could suffer. If we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain key personnel, we may be unable to pursue business opportunities or develop our products. We believe that our future success will depend in large part upon our continued ability to recruit, hire, retain and motivate highly skilled technical, marketing, administrative and managerial personnel. Competition for these 18 Table of Contents employees is significant. Our failure to retain our present employees and hire additional qualified personnel in a timely manner and on reasonable terms could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, from time to time we may recruit and hire employees from our customers, suppliers and distributors, which could damage our business relationship with these parties. Our success also depends on the continuing contributions of our senior management and technical personnel, all of whom would be difficult to replace. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our ability to execute our business strategy, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be successful in retaining these key personnel. Our reliance on third-party wafer fabs to manufacture our semiconductor wafers may reduce our ability to fill orders and limit our ability to assure product quality and to control costs. We do not own or operate a semiconductor fabrication facility, or fab. We currently rely on a number of third-party wafer fabs to manufacture our semiconductor wafers. These fabs include RF Micro Devices, or RFMD, for GaAs devices, Atmel for SiGe devices, TriQuint Semiconductors for our discrete devices, GCS for our indium gallium phosphide, or InGaP, devices, TSMC and Chartered Semiconductor for CMOS devices, IBM and Jazz Semiconductor for SiGe BiCMOS devices and an Asian foundry that supplies us with lateral diffused metal oxide semiconductor, or LDMOS, devices. The loss of one of our third-party wafer fabs, or any reduction of capacity, manufacturing disruption, or delay or reduction in wafer supply, would negatively impact our ability to fulfill customer orders, perhaps materially, and has in the past and could in the future damage our relationships with our customers, either of which could significantly harm our business and operating results. Some of these relationships are handled on a purchase order by purchase order basis while others are conducted pursuant to longer-term purchase agreements. Some of our longer-term contracts feature “last-time buy,” or LTB, arrangements. An LTB arrangement typically provides that, if the vendor decides to obsolete or materially change the process by which our products are made, we will be given prior notice and opportunity to make a last purchase of wafers in volume. While the goal of the LTB arrangement is to allow us a sufficient supply of wafers in such instances to either meet our future needs or give us time to transition our products to, and qualify, another supply source, we cannot assure you that the volume of wafers provided for under any LTB arrangement will adequately meet our future requirements. Northrop Grumman, or NG (formerly TRW, Inc.), has discontinued the operation of the fabrication line on which our GaAs products have historically been made, and we made a last-time buy of wafers in connection with the line shutdown. We believe that through a combination of our current inventory and our efforts to transition customers to products using semiconductors produced by our other foundry partners, we will have a sufficient wafer supply to meet our currently anticipated customer needs. However, there can be no assurance that sufficient supplies of such wafers will become available to us, or that our transitioning efforts will be successful and will not result in lost market share. Each of our foundries are our sole supplier for parts in the particular fabrication technology manufactured at their facility. GCS is a private company with limited capital resources and operating history. Because there are limited numbers of third-party wafer fabs that use the process technologies we select for our products and that have sufficient capacity to meet our needs, it would be difficult to find an alternative source of supply. Even if we were able to find an alternative source, using alternative or additional third-party wafer fabs would require an extensive qualification process that could prevent or delay product shipments, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our reliance on these third-party wafer fabs involves several additional risks, including reduced control over the manufacturing costs, delivery times, reliability and quality of our components produced from these wafers. The fabrication of semiconductor wafers is a highly complex and precise process. We expect that our customers will continue to establish demanding specifications for quality, performance and reliability that must be met by our products. Our third-party wafer fabs may not be able to achieve and maintain acceptable production yields in the future. To the extent our third-party wafer fabs suffer failures or defects, we have in the past and could in the 19 Table of Contents future experience warranty and product liability claims, lost net revenues, increased costs, or delays in, cancellations or rescheduling of orders or shipments, any of which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our reliance on subcontractors to package our products could cause a delay in our ability to fulfill orders or could increase our cost of revenues. We do not package the RF semiconductor components that we sell but rather rely on subcontractors to package our products. Packaging is the procedure of electrically bonding and encapsulating the IC into its final protective plastic or ceramic casing. We provide the wafers containing the ICs to third-party packagers. We typically rely on a small number of packagers, and do not have long-term contracts with our third-party packagers stipulating fixed prices or packaging volumes. The fragile nature of the semiconductor wafers that we use in our components requires sophisticated packaging techniques and has in the past resulted in low packaging yields. If our packaging subcontractors fail to achieve and maintain acceptable production yields in the future, we could experience increased costs, including warranty and product liability expense and costs associated with customer support, delays in or cancellations or rescheduling of orders or shipments, product returns or discounts, reduced margins and lower net revenues. A substantial portion of our products are sold to international customers, which exposes us to numerous risks. A substantial portion of our direct sales and sales through our distributors are to foreign purchasers, particularly in China, Singapore, Korea, Mexico, Finland, the Philippines, Germany and Sweden. International sales approximated 59% of net revenues in 2006, the majority of which was attributable to customers, CMs and OEMs located in Asia. Demand for our products in foreign markets could decrease, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, sales to international customers may be subject to numerous risks, including: • changes in trade policy and regulatory requirements; • duties, tariffs and other trade barriers and restrictions; • timing and availability of export licenses; • exchange rate fluctuations; • difficulties in managing distributors’ sales to foreign countries; • the complexity and necessity of using foreign representatives; • compliance with a variety of foreign and U.S. laws affecting activities abroad; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • trade disputes; and • potential political, social and economic instability. We are also subject to risks associated with the imposition of legislation and regulations relating to the import or export of high technology products. We cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes or other charges or restrictions upon the importation or exportation of our products will be implemented by the United States or other countries. Because most sales of Sirenza products have historically been denominated in United States dollars, increases in the value of the United States dollar could increase the price of our products so that they become relatively more expensive to customers in the local currency of a particular country, leading customers to order fewer products, thereby reducing our sales and profitability in that country. Some of our customer purchase orders and agreements are governed by foreign laws, which may differ significantly from United States laws; therefore, we may be limited in our ability to enforce our rights under such agreements and to collect damages, if awarded. 20 Table of Contents Sources for certain components and materials are limited, which could result in interruptions, delays or reductions in product shipments. The commercial communications industry from time to time is affected by limited supplies of certain key components and materials. For example, we rely on Analog Devices for the integrated circuits, or ICs, utilized in the manufacture of our phase-locked loop, or PLL, products, and also rely on limited sources for certain packaging materials. If we, or our packaging subcontractors, are unable to obtain these or other materials in the required quantity and quality, we could experience delays or reductions in product shipments, which would reduce our profitability. Temporary shortages have arisen in the past and may arise in the future. If key components or materials are unavailable, while we would hope to be able to remedy the situation through cooperation with the suppliers, locating alternate sources of supply or otherwise, our costs could increase and net revenues could decline. Recent changes in environmental laws and regulations applicable to manufacturers of electrical and electronic equipment have required us to redesign some of our products, and may increase our costs and expose us to liability. The implementation of new technological or legal requirements, such as recycling requirements and lead-free initiatives, has impacted our products and manufacturing processes, and could affect the timing of product introductions, the cost and commercial success of our products and our overall profitability. For example, a directive in the European Union banned the use of lead, other heavy metals and certain flame retardants in electrical and electronic equipment beginning in 2006. As a result, in advance of this deadline, many of our customers changed their equipment specifications to use only components that do not contain these banned substances and indicated that they would no longer design in non-compliant components. Because many of our IC products utilize a tin-lead alloy as a soldering material in the manufacturing process, our MCM products contain circuit boards plated with a tin-lead surface and certain molded active components in our MCM products are molded with a banned substance, we either have already or may need to in the future redesign our products and obtain compliant raw materials from our suppliers to respond to the new legislation and to meet customer demand. Although we began this process in the first quarter of 2004 and have released many compliant products to date, we have products that remain non-compliant. Due to the limited geographic coverage of the regulations and our worldwide customer base, the different rates at which various customers are requiring compliant components, and the fact that some components containing banned substances remain exempt from the regulations for particular customer applications, we are not stopping all production of parts containing banned substances on a particular scheduled date, but are making the move gradually as customer demand dictates. We anticipate selling such products for some time. We may be left with excess inventory of certain leaded parts if customers for those parts move to lead-free only consumption without giving us sufficient notice. In addition, our industry has no long-term data to assess the effectiveness, shelf-life, moisture sensitivity, and thermal tolerance of alternative materials, so we may experience product quality and performance issues as we transition our products to such materials. Further, for our MCM products, we rely on third party suppliers, over which we have little or no control, to provide certain of the components needed for our products to meet applicable standards. In addition, this redesign is resulting in increased research and development and manufacturing and quality control costs. If we are unable to redesign existing products and introduce new products to meet the standards set by environmental regulation and our customers, sales of our products could decline, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to comply with any applicable environmental regulations could result in a range of consequences, including loss of sales, fines, suspension of production, excess inventory, and criminal and civil liabilities. China recently adopted directives similar to the European Union directive described above. While portions of the legislation have been implemented, the scope of product types affected and other aspects of the legislation and its application remain somewhat unclear. We are still evaluating the impact this regulation will have on our business. Another recent directive in the European Union imposes a “take-back” obligation on manufacturers of 21 Table of Contents electrical and electronic equipment. This obligation requires manufacturers of electrical or electronic equipment to finance the collection, recovery and disposal of the electrical or electronic equipment that they produce. At this time, we are not aware of adopted legislation implementing this directive and the methods by which our industry will attempt to comply with these take-back obligations have not been fully developed. We may have take-back obligations, and even if the specific implementing legislation eventually adopted does not directly apply to us or our products and solutions, our customers could potentially shift some of their costs to us through contractual provisions. We are unable to assess the impact of this proposed legislation at this time but it could result in increased costs to us, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Environmental regulations could subject us to substantial costs or fines, or require us to suspend production, alter manufacturing processes or cease operations at one or more sites. The manufacture, assembly and testing of our products requires the use of hazardous materials that are subject to a broad array of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations governing the use, transportation, emission, discharge, storage, recycling or disposal of such materials. Failure to comply with any such laws or regulations could result in fines, suspension of production, alteration of fabrication and assembly processes, curtailment of operations or sales, requirements to remediate land, air or groundwater and other legal liability. Some domestic and foreign environmental regulations allow regulating authorities to impose cleanup liability on a company that leases or otherwise becomes associated with a contaminated site even though that company had nothing to do with the acts that gave rise to the contamination. Accordingly, even if our operations are conducted in accordance with these laws, we may incur environmental liability based on the actions of prior owners, lessees or neighbors of sites we lease now or in the future, or sites we become associated with due to acquisitions. For example, PDI’s manufacturing site in Nuremberg, Germany occupies a small portion of a large parcel formerly occupied by Alcatel and other manufacturers dating back to the early 1900s. Chlorinated solvent and heavy metal contamination in air, soil and groundwater were identified on the former Alcatel site in the late 1980s, and pump-and-treat remediation systems have been implemented on portions of the site. While we do not believe that this contamination resulted from the operation of PDI’s business, that any additional remediation is required on the PDI site or that we or PDI have any material related liability, we cannot assure you that such liability will not arise in the future. We have a material amount of goodwill and long-lived assets, including finite-lived acquired intangible assets, which, if impaired, could harm our results of operations. We have a material amount of goodwill, which is the amount by which the cost of an acquisition accounted for using the purchase method exceeds the fair value of the net assets acquired. Goodwill is subject to a periodic impairment evaluation based on the fair value of the reporting unit. We also have a material amount of long-lived assets, including finite-lived acquired intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet. These assets are evaluated for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of the related assets may not be recoverable. Any impairment of our goodwill or long-lived assets, including finite-lived acquired intangible assets, could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The outcome of litigation in which we have been named as a defendant is unpredictable and an adverse decision in any such matter could subject us to damage awards and lower the market price of our stock. We are a defendant in litigation matters that are described under the heading “Legal Proceedings” elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed from time to time. These claims may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. Although we believe that we have meritorious defenses to the claims made in the litigation matters to which we have been named a party and intend to contest each lawsuit vigorously, we cannot assure you that the results of these matters will be favorable to us. An adverse resolution of any of these lawsuits, including the results of any amicable settlement, could subject us to material damage awards or otherwise harm our business. 22 Table of Contents The timing of the adoption of industry standards may negatively impact sales of our products. The markets in which we and our customers compete are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and continuous improvements in products and services. If technologies or standards supported by us or our customers’ products, such as 2.5G and 3G, WiMAX and PHS, fail to gain widespread commercial acceptance, our business may be significantly impacted. For example, the worldwide installation of 2.5G and 3G equipment has occurred at a much slower rate than we initially expected. In addition, while historically the demand for wireless and wireline communications has exerted pressure on standards bodies worldwide to adopt new standards for these products, such adoption generally only occurs following extensive investigation of, and deliberation over, competing technologies. The delays inherent in the standards approval process have in the past and may in the future cause the cancellation, postponement or rescheduling of the installation of communications systems by our customers. If further delays in adoption of industry standards were to occur in China, the United States or other countries where our products are frequently used, it could result in lower sales of our products and worse than expected results of operations in one or more periods. Our limited ability to protect our proprietary information and technology may adversely affect our ability to compete. Our future success and ability to compete is dependent in part upon our proprietary information and technology. Although we have patented technology and patent applications pending, we primarily rely on a combination of contractual rights and copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and practices to establish and protect our proprietary technology. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, resellers, wafer suppliers, vendors, customers and potential customers, and limit the disclosure and use of our proprietary information. The steps taken by us in this regard may not be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology. Additionally, our competitors may independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain or use our products or technology. Our ability to enforce our patents, copyrights, software licenses and other intellectual property is limited by our financial resources and is subject to general litigation risks, as well as uncertainty as to the enforceability of our intellectual property rights in various countries. If we seek to enforce our rights, we may be subject to claims that the intellectual property right is invalid, is otherwise not enforceable or is licensed to the party against whom it is asserting a claim. In addition, our assertion of intellectual property rights could result in the other party seeking to assert alleged intellectual property rights of its own against us. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Our common stock price may be extremely volatile, and the value of your investment may decline. Our common stock price has been highly volatile since our initial public offering. We expect that this volatility will continue in the future due to factors such as: • actual or anticipated variations in operating results; • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by stock market analysts regarding us or our competitors; • announcements by our customers regarding end market conditions and the status of existing and future infrastructure network deployments; • announcements of technological innovations, new products or new services by us or by our competitors or customers; • general market and economic conditions; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; 23 Table of Contents • Additions or departures of key personnel; • The effects of trading or other activity by short sellers, hedge funds and other speculators; and • future equity or debt offerings or our announcements of these offerings. In addition, in recent years, the stock market in general, and the Nasdaq Global Market and the securities of technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations have in the past and may in the future materially and adversely affect our stock price, regardless of our operating results. In the event our stock price declines, you may be unable to sell your shares at or above the price at which you purchased them. Our stock price may decline if a substantial number of shares are sold in the market by our stockholders. Future sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock by our existing stockholders in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Increased sales of our common stock in the market for any reason could exert significant downward pressure on our stock price. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price we deem appropriate. Some of our stockholders can exert control over us, and they may not make decisions that reflect our interests or those of other stockholders. Our founding stockholders control a significant amount of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders will be able to exert a significant degree of influence over our management and affairs and control over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of our directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. In addition, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change in control of us and might affect the market price of our securities. In addition, the interests of these stockholders may not always coincide with your interests or the interests of other stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 