Item 1A Risk Factors 11 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 18 Item 2 Properties 18 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 19 Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 19 Part II 20 Item 5 Market for Our Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 20 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 22 Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 25 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 50 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 51 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 51 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 51 Item 9B Other Information 52 Part III 52 Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 52 Item 11 Executive Compensation 52 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 53 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 53 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 61 Part IV 62 Item 15 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 62 Signatures 74 ii Table of Contents In this Annual Report on Form 10-K the terms "Crown Media Holdings" or the "Company," refer to Crown Media Holdings, Inc. and, unless the context requires otherwise, subsidiaries of Crown Media Holdings that operate or have operated our businesses, Crown Media United States, LLC ("Crown Media United States") and until the completion of the sale of our film library in December 2006, Crown Media Distribution, LLC ("Crown Media Distribution"). The term "common stock" refers to our Class A common stock and Class B common stock, unless the context requires otherwise. The name Hallmark and other product or service names are trademarks or registered trademarks of their owners. PART I ITEM 1. Business Company Overview We own and operate a pay television channel, known as the Hallmark Channel (the "channel"), dedicated to high-quality entertainment programming for adults and families. The Hallmark Channel is a 24-hour television destination for family-friendly programming and a leader in the production of original movies. In addition, we own and operate the Hallmark Movie Channel, which is a 24-hour digital cable network dedicated to offering viewers a collection of movies and mini-series appropriate to the entire family and the Hallmark Movie Channel HD, which was launched in April 2008, and is simulcast alongside the Hallmark Movie Channel and offers a mix of original movies, mini-series and feature films. The Hallmark Movie Channel provides an opportunity for us to build a second programming asset and to use this asset to generate additional advertising revenue. It also serves as a value-added enhancement to maintain or increase the distribution of the Hallmark Channel. These Channels are collectively referred to herein as the "Channels." Our Channels are distributed in the United States of America and its territories and possessions, including Puerto Rico. The Channels offer compelling stories, masterfully written, directed and produced with talented and recognized actors. We believe that we have established these Channels as destinations for viewers seeking high-quality entertainment for adults and families, and as attractive outlets for advertisers seeking to target these viewers. We have distribution agreements with leading pay television 1 Table of Contents distributors. The following table shows our Channels' programming sources, selected pay television distributors and the total number of subscribers as of December 31, 2008. Hallmark Channel Hallmark Movie Channel Programming Sources • Original Productions • Original Productions • Other third-party sources • Other third-party sources • Hallmark Hall of Fame • Hallmark Hall of Fame • RHI Entertainment Distribution • RHI Entertainment Distribution Selected Pay Television Distributors • Cablevision • Cablevision • Charter • Charter • Comcast • Comcast • Cox • Cox • DIRECTV • EchoStar • EchoStar • NCTC • NCTC • Time Warner • Mediacom • Time Warner Total Subscribers 85.5 million(1) 14.5 million(2) (1)Source: Nielsen Code and The Nielsen Public U.E. December 2008. (2)Source: Internal reports. We view a "subscriber" as a household that receives, on a full or part-time basis, a Channel on a program tier of a distributor. We determine our Hallmark Channel subscribers from subscriber numbers reported by Nielsen Media Research. Subscribers include both viewers who pay a monthly fee for the tier programming and so-called "promotional" subscribers who are given free access to the tier by the distributor for a limited time. Programming acquired from third parties is an important component of our Channels as we continually develop and refine our programming strategy. This programming includes original movies produced by a variety of experienced television production companies. Our production agreements cover one specific movie or a package of several movies. Typically under these agreements, our channels have the right to exhibit the movies for an initial window of 3-5 years and have the right to extend the term for an additional 3 years, which we exercise based on the performance of the movies in their initial window. We currently distribute (a) the Hallmark Channel through approximately 5,450 cable, satellite and other pay television distribution systems and (b) the Hallmark Movie Channel through approximately 500 such systems. As of the end of 2008, we had agreements with Cablevision, Charter, Comcast, Cox, DIRECTV, EchoStar, Mediacom, the National Cable Television Cooperative, Time Warner and many other pay television distributors, for the distribution of the Hallmark Channel. We also have agreements with Cablevision, Charter, Comcast, Cox, EchoStar, National Cable Televisions Cooperative, Time Warner and other select distributors, which give these distributors the right to distribute the Hallmark Movie Channel and the Hallmark Movie Channel HD. In addition, we have entered into agreements with several telephone companies that have started to furnish video programming to consumers, including AT&T (formerly SBC), the National Rural Telecommunications Cooperative, and Verizon. Five of our distributors each accounted for more than 10%, and together accounted for a total of 77%, of our consolidated subscriber revenue for the year ended December 31, 2008. Three of our distributors each accounted for approximately 15% or more of our consolidated subscribers for the year 2 Table of Contents ended December 31, 2008 and together accounted for 61% of our consolidated subscribers on that date. We license the trademark "Hallmark" for use on our Channels pursuant to certain trademark license agreements with a subsidiary of Hallmark Cards. We believe that the use of this trademark is extremely important for our Channels due to the substantial name recognition and favorable characteristics associated with the name in the United States. For further information concerning these trademark license agreements, see Part III—Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions—Hallmark Trademark License Agreements. During 2008, domestic channel operations comprised the Company's sole operating segment. Information concerning revenue, operating losses and identifiable assets attributable to our pay television programming services and our distribution of films (through December 15, 2006) may be found in Note 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Report. Development of Business Crown Media Holdings, Inc. was incorporated in the State of Delaware in December 1999. Its wholly-owned subsidiary, Crown Media United States, LLC, owns, operates and distributes the Channels. Significant investors in Crown Media Holdings include Hallmark Entertainment Investments Co. ("Hallmark Entertainment Investments"), a subsidiary of Hallmark Cards, the National Interfaith Cable Coalition, Inc. ("NICC"), The DIRECTV Group, Inc. and, indirectly through their investments in Hallmark Entertainment Investments, Liberty Media Corporation ("Liberty Media") and J.P. Morgan Partners (BHCA), L. P. ("J.P. Morgan"). Hallmark Cards controls the Company through its ownership of more than 80% of the equity interests in Hallmark Entertainment Investments and its control over the voting of our Class A and Class B common stock held by Hallmark Entertainment Investments. See also the description of the Hallmark Entertainment Investments Co. Stockholders Agreement in Part III—Item 13 below and Part III—Item 12 below regarding beneficial ownership of our securities. Industry Overview The pay television industry is comprised primarily of program suppliers, pay television channel providers and pay television distributors. Program suppliers, from whom we acquire or license a portion of our programming, include many of the major production studios and other independent production companies and independent owners of programming. These program suppliers create, develop and finance the production of, or control rights to, movies, television miniseries, series and other programming. We are a pay television channel provider. Pay television channel providers include all channel providers (except over-the-air broadcasters) and major U.S. cable and satellite networks. Pay television channel providers often produce programming and acquire or license programming from program suppliers and generally package the programming according to an overriding theme and brand strategy. Pay television providers and distributors generally restrict viewership through security encryption devices that limit viewership to paying subscribers. Pay television channel providers compete with each other for distribution and to attract viewers and advertisers. Pay television providers generally target audiences with a certain demographic composition, so that they can then sell advertising to advertisers seeking to reach the providers' demographic audiences. Pay television distributors own and operate the platforms used to deliver channels to subscribers. These distributors use several different technologies to reach their subscribers as described below. Distributors attempt to create a mix of channels that will be attractive to their subscriber population in an attempt to gain new subscribers and to reduce subscriber turnover. Distributors have different levels 3 Table of Contents of service for subscribers, with each service level containing some different channels. Pay television distributors often create "tiers" of programming services, and our services occasionally are offered on family or movie programming tiers. Various distributors offer additional broadband services such as Internet access, telephony and video-on-demand over their systems. As a result of the competition for use of the digital cable capacity for channels and broadband services, pay television channel providers are often required initially to pay subscriber acquisition fees to pay television distributors for carriage on their systems or the addition of subscribers. These subscriber acquisition fees are paid to television distributors on a per subscriber basis and generally in advance of any receipt of subscriber fee revenue from such pay television distributors. Distribution Platforms Four major distribution platforms are currently used to transmit programming. First, cable television systems use coaxial or fiber optic cable to transmit multiple channels between a central facility, known as a headend, and the individual subscriber's television set. Second, analog and digital satellite broadcast systems (such as direct-to-home or "DTH") use satellite transponders to broadcast television programming to individual dwellings with satellite reception equipment, including a dish and a decoder. Third, digital terrestrial television broadcasters ("DTT") typically broadcast locally or through regional or national ground-based transmission networks. In general, such broadcasters use landline, microwave or satellite transmission systems to distribute programming to terrestrial transmission facilities for broadcast directly to viewers' homes. Channels can also be distributed through satellite master antenna television ("SMATV"). SMATV is used primarily for buildings, such as apartments and hotels that receive programming from satellites by means of a single antenna that is connected to the buildings' headend. The television signals are then distributed to individual units in the building by cable. For promotional purposes we exhibit excerpts of certain programming, and in one case, an entire program, on our website. The one case is the offering of our original series "Adoption" on the internet, for both its first season and beginning on November 1, 2008, its second season. Sources of Revenue Subscriber Fees Pay television customers subscribe to basic services by paying monthly fees for basic channels to pay television distributors. The customers can also subscribe to additional packages of premium or pay-per-view services upon payment of additional fees. Generally, we charge our pay television distributors a monthly subscriber fee for the right to distribute our Channels to their subscribers. Generally, these distribution agreements last from three to ten years, and usually include annual increases of subscriber fees. In the past, for the most part, these distribution agreements also involved payments by us for the establishment of the relationship or, together with or in lieu of any payment, waived subscriber fees for our Channels to distributors for a period of time. Please see Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for information regarding subscriber fees. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008 revenue derived from subscriber fees for the Channels were approximately $24.9 million, $27.8 million and $57.2 million, respectively. Advertising Revenue Television advertising is sold in a variety of formats. Most advertising supported cable networks rely largely upon the spot advertisement format. Spot advertisements are normally 30 seconds long and air during or between programs. They are often sold in packages of a certain number of spots with a commitment to deliver a certain number of viewers. An alternative to spot advertising is sponsorship, 4 Table of Contents by which a company sponsors a program or selection of programs on a channel and receives enhanced exposure for its brand and products in these programs. An additional form of television advertising is direct response advertising, which is designed to elicit a specific and quantifiable response from the viewer. Unlike spot advertising, fees payable for this form of advertising are measured by viewer response to advertising, such as product purchases, rather than the viewer ratings which measures success in programming. A majority of the Hallmark Channel advertising revenue is comprised of spot advertising. The Hallmark Movie Channel's revenue has been comprised primarily of direct response revenue. The ability of a television channel to generate advertising revenue largely depends on estimated or actual viewing levels, primarily based on ratings, and on advertising rates. In the United States, independent ratings systems on which advertising sales can be based are well established and widely accepted within the industry. In addition, pay television channel providers and distributors may also provide estimated or actual subscriber information. Our Channel typically sells approximately 50% of its advertising in the "up-front" season, generally in June and July, for the last quarter of the same year and the first three quarters of the following year. We hold back a small percentage of our inventory for audience deficiency units ("ADUs") and sell the remainder in the spot or scatter market. ADUs are units of inventory that are made available to advertisers as fulfillment for advertising purchased in programs which did not deliver the ratings which the advertisers had been guaranteed. See Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation" for information on ratings based on viewing of commercial content as well as programming content. As pay television channels draw audience share, audience demographics (i.e. viewers categorized by characteristics such as age, sex and income) become fragmented. As a result, advertisers are able to target the specific groups of viewers who are most likely to purchase their products by buying advertising on channels which attract the desired viewer demographic. We have advertising sales offices in New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, and Atlanta. In addition, we have made significant investments in programming, research, marketing and promotions, all specifically designed to support the sale of advertising time on our Channels. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008 revenue from the sale of advertising time on our Channels were approximately $174.2 million, $206.2 million and $223.4 million, respectively. In December 2008, we entered into an agreement with Google Inc. under which advertisers may place ads on the Hallmark Movie Channel through the Google platform, starting April 2009 and on the Hallmark Channel later in 2009. Among the 73 ad-supported cable channels in the United States market in 2008, the Hallmark Channel ranked 11th in total day viewership with an average 0.695 household rating for the year and 8th for prime time with an average 1.168 household rating for the year, according to Nielsen Media Research. In 2007, among the 69 ad-supported cable channels in the United States market, the Hallmark Channel ranked 11th in total day viewership with an average 0.714 household rating and 8th for prime time with an average 1.155 household rating, according to Nielsen Media Research. Total day means the time period measured from the time each day the broadcast of commercially-sponsored programming commences to the time such commercially-sponsored programming ends. We believe that the key demographics for the Hallmark Channel are the viewers in the groups Adults aged 25 to 54 and Women aged 25 to 54. The average median age of a viewer of the Hallmark Channel was 59.8 in 2008 and 60.7 in 2007. Licensing Revenue Until we sold our domestic library to RHI Entertainment LLC on December 15, 2006, we licensed our film assets to broadcasters and video distributors (pay television channel providers) who paid a license fee for the right to exhibit or distribute the programming over a certain period of time. 5 Table of Contents Programming Our Channels offer a range of high-quality entertainment programming for adults and families including popular television series, movies, miniseries, theatricals, romances, literary classics, and contemporary stories. Sources for programming on our Channels include programming licensed from Buena Vista Television, CBS Television Distribution, Hallmark Hall of Fame, Paramount Pictures, RHI Entertainment Distribution, Twentieth Television, Warner Bros. and other third party producers. Examples of programming from other producers include, the Hallmark Channel original movies The Note, The Good Witch, Accidental Friendship and Old Fashioned Thanksgiving. Examples of programming from the RHI Entertainment Distribution library include, Steve Martini's The Judge, The Outsider, Talking to Heaven, and Fredrick Forsyth's Icon and Supernova. We benefit from original productions, whether they have aired on other networks or are premiered on our Channel. Examples of other third party programming shown on our Channel include the popular series M*A*S*H, Little House on the Prairie, 7th Heaven, Matlock, Walker Texas Ranger, Murder She Wrote, The Golden Girls and I Love Lucy. Examples of Twentieth Television family-friendly movies include Big, Cheaper by the Dozen, Home Alone and Working Girl. Other examples of our third party programming include acquired movies and miniseries such as Ever After, Entrapment, Return to Snowy River and Flight of the Navigator. Our license agreements with third parties typically provide for a license fee paid out over the term of the license for the right to exhibit a program in the United States within a specified period of time. Our channels air, and benefit from, programming previously shown as Hallmark Hall of Fame such as John Grisham's Painted House, The Magic of Ordinary Days, Back When We Were Grownups, Sarah, Plain and Tall and What the Deaf Man Heard. We have occasionally sublicensed exhibition rights to third parties to select programs in order to reduce our programming costs. Distribution The Hallmark Channel ended 2008 with 85.5 million subscribers, an increase of 2% from 83.9 million at the 2007 year-end. We currently distribute the Hallmark Channel to approximately 84% of all United States pay television subscribers. The following table shows the approximate number of pay television households and the Hallmark Channel subscribers for each of the eight largest pay television distributors, and all other pay television distributors as a group, in the United States as of December 31, 2008. PAY TELEVISION DISTRIBUTOR TOTAL U.S. PAY TV HOUSEHOLDS(1) HALLMARK CHANNEL—U.S. SUBSCRIBERS(1) HALLMARK CHANNEL—U.S. % OF PAY TV HOUSEHOLDS (In thousands, except percentages) Comcast 27,120 21,923 80.8 % DIRECTV 17,320 17,662 102.0 % Time Warner 15,902 12,908 81.2 % Echostar 13,780 11,559 83.9 % Charter 5,692 4,461 78.4 % Cox 5,571 4,543 81.5 % Cablevision 3,001 2,459 82.0 % Mediacom 1,582 1,257 79.4 % NCTC and all others 11,994 8,768 73.1 % Total 101,962 85,540 83.9 % (1)Source: Nielsen Code and The Nielsen Public U.E. December 2008. 6 Table of Contents Our subscribers in the United States have grown from approximately 16.0 million full time subscribers at January 1, 2001. Our major distribution agreements have terms with options which extend through December 2023. Of these distribution agreements, an agreement accounting for approximately 5% of our subscriber base at December 31, 2008, will expire and be the subject of renewal negotiations on or prior to December 31, 2010. See Item 1A, Risk Factors, below for a risk factor concerning the proposed bankruptcy of Charter Communications. See Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, below for information regarding expiration and renewal of distribution agreements in 2008. Sales and Marketing Our primary target demographics are women aged 25 to 54 and adults aged 25 to 54. Our programming is targeted to adults, but is generally appropriate for viewing by the entire family, which is important to viewers, advertisers and affiliates. For over fifty years Hallmark has been a leader in high-quality original television production. The Hallmark Channel and the Hallmark Movie Channel are the only major cable television networks which broadcast the movies previously shown as Hallmark Hall of Fame, a selection of movies from an award-winning entertainment series. The power of the Hallmark brand and the quality of our programming combine to: •provide our viewers with tangible evidence of our commitment to the best in entertainment for the entire family; •enhance our ability to attract advertising commitments and higher rates ("Cost-Per-Thousands" or "CPM's") from the largest advertisers; and •provide a competitive advantage in negotiating long-term distribution agreements with pay television distributors. Crown Media Holdings currently uses the websites www.hallmarkchannel.com and www.hallmarkmoviechannel.com to promote the Channels and their programs, and to provide information to potential viewers. These websites support major programming events such as original movie premieres and major acquisitions as well as contain information regarding the Channels' program schedule, detailed information on the Channels' programs and their stars. Further, the sites provide platforms for viewer participation in the Channels' sweepstakes promotions and community areas. The sites have advertiser imaging including banner messages and video content. Channel Operations The programming department has been responsible for ensuring the consistent quality of the programming we offer. The programming, scheduling and acquisitions departments work in conjunction with the marketing and creative services departments to create the distinctive appearance of our Channels. Some of these functions are outsourced on an as-needed basis. The creation of our Channels begins with the acquisition of programming. Our staff or third parties review and summarize all potential programming to ensure compliance with our quality and content standards. The creation of on-air promotional segments "interstitials," which are broadcast between the feature movies, miniseries and series, are typically created by the Company's employees, but are occasionally outsourced to external vendors. These interstitials are intended to invite viewership, guide 7 Table of Contents viewers to specific programming, and promote "brand awareness" for the Channels. Occasionally, these interstitials are sponsored by advertisers, resulting in additional advertising revenue. The scheduling department creates the play list, which contains a list of daily programming. The scheduling department works with advertising sales and research personnel to continuously monitor the effectiveness of programming content and sequence. The play list is then forwarded to the traffic department. The traffic department inserts promotional segments and advertising into the play list and creates the daily log, which contains a detailed schedule of the stream of programming, commercials and promotional materials that will ultimately be distributed to the subscribers of the Channels. Channel Delivery We deliver the daily log and digital tapes of the Hallmark Channel's programming, commercials and promotional messages to a third party network operations center in Denver, Colorado, where the programming, advertising and promotional elements are combined, compressed, and transported to an uplink facility in Littleton, Colorado. The daily log and digital tapes of the Hallmark Movie Channel's commercials and promotional messages are delivered to a third party network operations center in Los Angeles, California (for HD) and Denver, Colorado (for SD), where the respective programming, advertising and promotional elements are similarly combined, compressed, and transported to an uplink facility in Littleton, Colorado. The uplink facility combines the Hallmark Channel's programming with Hallmark Movie Channel HD and SD. The uplink facility then transmits the combined signals to a satellite transponder that covers the United States. The transponder transmits the signal back to cable head-end facilities and direct-to-home satellite services operated by pay television distributors who receive and decode our signal and transmit our Channels to their subscribers. The following chart summarizes for the primary distribution platforms through which we deliver our Channels, our primary pay television distributors, and the uplink and satellites we currently use to deliver our Channels. Market Primary Distribution Platforms Primary Pay TV Distributors Channel Origination Providers/ Locations Uplink Providers/ Locations Satellites United States Cable Cablevision Hallmark Channel: Technicolor Network Services US (formerly, Sparrowhawk Broadcast Services) Denver, CO Comcast Digital Media Center Littleton, CO SES Americom Satellite Charter Hallmark Movie Channel: Andrita Studios Burbank, CA AMC 11 Direct-to- Comcast home Cox DIRECTV EchoStar NCTC Mediacom Time Warner The contracts with the parties providing origination, uplink, satellite and other services for the delivery of our Channels in the United States expire from 2011 through 2019. Such contracts may be terminated by the vendors prior to the expiration of the contracts under conditions that are customary to contracts of this type. Amounts payable under these contracts, as well as international contracts, are 8 Table of Contents reflected in "Operating and Capital Leases" in the schedule of contractual commitments as of December 31, 2008, as shown in Item 7 below. Competition The pay television industry is highly competitive. Our Channels compete for distribution, viewers and advertisers with other pay television channels, broadcast television channels and with other general forms of entertainment. There are several sources of competition within our industry, each of which affects our business strategy. The Hallmark Channel competes with other general entertainment programming from TNT, USA Network, A&E, the Discovery Channel, Lifetime, Oxygen, ABC Family and other similarly targeted channels. We compete with these channels for viewers and advertising dollars based upon quality of programming, number of subscribers, ratings and subscriber demographics. We compete with all channels for carriage on cable, satellite and telephone systems that may have limited capacity. Competition continues to intensify as the industry shifts from analog distribution to digital distribution. Many pay television distributors have upgraded their physical infrastructures to accommodate digital delivery, which provides significantly more channel capacity. In an effort to accelerate the conversion, pay television distributors are attempting to place new channels on their digital tier as opposed to their limited, yet more widely-distributed, analog tiers. Although competition for the remaining analog channel space is still intense, as more and more subscribers are converted, the digital tier is expected to become the dominant platform. Competitive Strengths We believe that our primary competitive strengths include the following: Programming We have established a track record of providing high quality family programming. Pay Television Channels Branded with the Well-Known Hallmark Name Our Channels are branded with the Hallmark name. We believe that viewers and distributors associate the Hallmark brand with family values and high quality content. Our association with this brand facilitates our efforts to achieve increased distribution and to attract additional viewers, which in turn leads to higher ratings and advertising revenue. Experienced Management Members of our senior management team have experience promoting and operating channels. They have held senior positions at such companies as Court TV, ABC, CBS Sports, Fox Family, Discovery Channel, AMC and USA Networks. Competitive Risks One Primary Channel Distributed Domestically We operate only two channels. Many of our competitors have more than two channels and are also diversified entertainment companies, giving them an advantage in dealing with distributors and advertisers. These companies are also able to leverage costs across multiple channels. Until the Hallmark Movie Channel is more widely distributed, it will not provide significant leverage in negotiations with distributors and advertisers. 9 Table of Contents Entertainment Programming Our programming is entertainment designed for adults and families and is intended to meet quality standards that are associated with the Hallmark trademark. Our competitors may have more flexibility in programming. Ratings Which Affect Advertising Our ratings are a significant positive factor. Nevertheless, our competitors include channels with more subscribers and higher ratings, which affect rates that we can charge for advertising. Research The research department at the Company provides strategic and tactical guidance to decision-makers within the Company, as well as supplying information about the Channels to our potential advertisers and affiliates. This department provides data on the size and demographics of our audience and information about our audiences, competitors, markets and industry. Currently, our Channel's research department translates our overall business strategy into a cohesive research program. This information assists our executives to more effectively target, brand, promote, program, and better understand where opportunities lie, in order to increase our Channel's market share. The research department has sophisticated research tools and competitive tracking database hardware and software. Trends and changes from these ratings systems are reported to top management for short and long-term strategic planning. Our Channel's performance is tracked through an internal tracking study established in July 2001, which is a monthly telephone survey conducted among a national probability sample of approximately 1,000 adults. The research department also subscribes to a number of other services, which are useful in obtaining information about viewers of our Channel. Employees We had 176 employees at December 31, 2007, and 178 employees at December 31, 2008. Neither we nor any of our subsidiaries are parties to collective bargaining agreements. We believe that our relations with our employees are good. Most of our Channels' employees work at our offices in Studio City, California and New York, New York. Available Information We will make available free of charge through our website, www.hallmarkchannel.com, this Annual Report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to such reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such material with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Additionally, we will make available, free of charge upon request, a copy of our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which is applicable to all of our employees, including our senior financial officers. Requests for a copy of this Code should be addressed to the General Counsel at Crown Media Holdings, Inc., 12700 Ventura Boulevard, Studio City, California 91604. 10 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors and Forward-Looking Statements The discussion set forth in this Form 10-K contains statements concerning potential future events. Such forward-looking statements are based on assumptions by Crown Media Holdings management, as of the date of this Form 10-K including assumptions about risks and uncertainties faced by Crown Media Holdings. Readers can identify these forward-looking statements by their use of such verbs as "expects," "anticipates," "believes," or similar verbs or conjugations of such verbs. If any of management's assumptions prove incorrect or should unanticipated circumstances arise, Crown Media Holdings' actual results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements could materially differ from those anticipated by such forward-looking statements. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are those discussed below in this Form 10-K. Crown Media Holdings will not update any forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K to reflect future events or developments. If we do not successfully address the risks described below, our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow could be materially adversely affected. The trading price of our Class A common stock could decline because of any of these risks. Risks Relating to Our Business Our business has incurred net losses since inception and may continue to incur losses. Our Channels have a history of net losses and we expect to continue to report net losses for the foreseeable future. As of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $2.1 billion, total stockholders' deficit of approximately $666.9 million, and goodwill of approximately $314.0 million. We cannot assure you that we will achieve an operating profit or sustain a positive cash flow. If we are not able to do so, the trading price of our Class A common stock may fall significantly. To diminish our losses, to continue to be profitable before interest expense and to continue to generate a positive cash flow, we will need to increase our advertising and subscriber revenue. This will require, among other things, maintaining the distribution of our Channels, attracting more and younger viewers to our channels, attracting more advertisers, and maintaining or increasing our subscriber and advertising rates. Risks associated with these areas of our business are described below. In addition, in order to accomplish these goals, the management of Crown Media Holdings continues to believe that it is necessary to maintain subscriber levels and enhance our programming, which may result in increased costs for programming. Over the last five years, these actions have contributed to net losses for Crown Media Holdings. To achieve positive net income, we would also need to decrease our interest expense by reducing our outstanding indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health, and the restrictions imposed by the terms of our debt instruments may severely limit our ability to plan for or respond to changes in our business. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness. To the extent interest is deferred and added to principal, the indebtedness increases. As of December 31, 2008, our total debt was $1.1 billion, and we had $2.7 million of cash and cash equivalents and $21.4 million available under our bank credit facility to support our operations. Subject to restrictions under our debt agreements, we may also seek to restructure our debt or to engage in an equity or debt financing to cover any operating losses, to finance acquisitions or capital expenditures or for other purposes. As a result of our level of debt and the terms of our debt instruments: •our vulnerability to adverse general economic conditions is heightened; 11 Table of Contents •we will be required to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to repayment of debt, limiting the availability of cash for other purposes; •we are, and will continue to be, limited by financial and other restrictive covenants in our ability to borrow additional funds, consummate asset sales, enter into transactions with affiliates or conduct mergers and acquisitions; •our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry will be limited; •we are sensitive to fluctuations in interest rates; •our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes may be impaired; and •offers to purchase the Company or its assets at prices that may be attractive to stockholders may be limited. Our ability to meet our debt and other obligations and to reduce our total debt depends on our future operating performances and on economic, financial, competitive and other factors. There can be no assurance that our leverage and such restrictions will not materially and adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. Information concerning our liquidity may be found in Note 1 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Report. We have significant interest expense, which may impact our future operations. High levels of interest expense could have negative effects on our future operations. Interest expense, which includes amortization of debt issuance costs and interest expense on borrowings under our senior and demand notes and bank credit facility, was significant over the past year. Although interest expense was lower in the past twelve months than in the previous twelve months, we continue to have significant outstanding indebtedness and related interest expense. A substantial portion of our cash flow from operations will be used to pay our interest expense and will not be available for other business purposes. In addition, we may need to incur additional indebtedness in the future. We cannot be assured that our business will generate sufficient cash flow or that future financings will be available to provide sufficient proceeds to meet our obligations or to service our total debt. Our liquidity is dependent on external funds. Although in the past twelve months we generated positive cash flow from operations, unanticipated significant expense or any developments that hamper our growth in revenue or decreases any of our revenue, may result in the need for additional external funds in order to continue operations. We have no arrangements for any such additional external financings, whether debt or equity, and are not certain whether any new external financing would be available on acceptable terms. Any new debt financing would require the cooperation and agreement of existing lenders. Further, as discussed in this report under "Liquidity and Capital Resources" below, we need to (1) extend, refinance or replace our credit facility on or prior to March 31, 2010, or to extend or replace borrowings from Hallmark Cards by March 31, 2010, that would result from Hallmark Cards' purchasing the loans under that facility (see note 9 to our Consolidated Financial Statements), and (2) extend or refinance outstanding notes payables to Hallmark Cards and its subsidiaries on or prior to March 31, 2010, for three obligations and August 2011 in the case of the 10.25% Note, as described later in this Report. 12 Table of Contents Upon maturity of the credit facility on March 31, 2010, if not paid in full, JP Morgan Chase Bank can elect to initiate a process to foreclose on the Company's assets. Such foreclosure proceedings would affect our ability to continue our operations. Prior to any such possible foreclosure proceedings, however, the Company would consider various alternatives. The Company could also cause Hallmark Cards, pursuant to the terms of the waiver and standby purchase agreement, to exercise its option to purchase the Bank's interest in the credit facility and the bank credit facility would then be payable to Hallmark Cards upon demand after March 31, 2010. Because of our possible inability to meet obligations when they become due on and after March 31, 2010, we anticipate that prior to March 31, 2010, it will be necessary to either extend or refinance the notes payable to affiliates of Hallmark Cards. As part of the combination of actions and in order to obtain additional funding, the Company may consider various alternatives including restructuring of the debt if possible, raising additional capital through the issuance of equity or debt securities or other strategic alternatives. There is no assurance that Hallmark Cards and its affiliates will extend dates for the deferral of payments on indebtedness owed by us or participate in any extension, refinancing or restructuring of the indebtedness. We have substantial outstanding obligations owed to Hallmark Cards and its affiliates. These obligations include promissory notes and amounts owed under a service agreement. Hallmark Cards, its affiliates and we are parties to a Waiver and Standby Purchase Agreement, as amended, under which principal payments and certain interest payments on the promissory notes are deferred until March 31, 2010, subject to earlier termination as provided in that Agreement. See Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Bank Credit Facility and Hallmark Notes and Item 13—Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence. These obligations and the Waiver Agreement have been negotiated by us with Hallmark Cards and its affiliates. Hallmark Cards and its affiliates have no obligation and have not stated any intent, made any commitment or implied that any of them will extend until any later date the deferral of payments on the promissory notes or any service agreement amounts. In addition, Hallmark Cards and its affiliates have no obligation and have not stated any intent, made any commitment or implied that Hallmark Cards or its affiliates would renew, refinance or participate in any restructuring of these obligations. Any decision by Hallmark Cards and its affiliates on these matters is at their discretion. The bankruptcy of Charter Communications could affect our revenues adversely. Charter Communications, which accounts for approximately 5% of our subscribers, stated in early 2009 that it contemplated entering into a Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding by April 1, 2009 in order to implement a financial restructuring. Such a bankruptcy could result in a rejection (in essence, a cancellation) of our distribution agreement with Charter Communications, thereby potentially decreasing our subscriber revenue. These effects depend on whether we would be able to renegotiate a new distribution agreement with Charter Communications or any purchaser of Charter Communications after the bankruptcy and whether there are any different terms in any renegotiated agreement. If Charter Communications would be acquired by another distributor in the bankruptcy proceeding, the distribution agreement of the acquiring party may become applicable. "Most Favored Nations" provisions may require modification of existing distribution agreements which could adversely affect subscriber revenue. A number of our existing distribution agreements contain "most favored nations" or "MFN" clauses. These clauses typically provide that, in the event we enter into an agreement with another distributor on more favorable terms, these terms must be offered to the distributor holding the MFN right, subject to certain exceptions and conditions. These clauses cover matters such as subscriber fees, 13 Table of Contents launch support, local advertising time and other financial and operating provisions. In the past, after entering into new distribution agreements, we have been asked by some of the distributors holding MFN rights to modify their distribution agreements to incorporate financial terms similar to those in the new agreements. Any claims of this type in the future could result in lower overall subscriber revenue or increased cash outlays; however, if our subscription base is increased as a result of such modifications, it could result in higher advertising revenue. If we are unable to obtain programming from third parties, we may be unable to increase our subscriber base. We compete with other pay television channel providers to acquire programming. If we fail to continue to obtain programming on reasonable terms for any reason, including as a result of competition, we could be forced to incur additional costs to acquire such programming or look for alternative programming, which may hinder the growth of our subscriber base. If our programming declines in popularity, our subscriber fees and advertising revenue could fall. Our success depends partly upon unpredictable and volatile factors beyond our control, such as viewer preferences, competing programming and the availability of other entertainment activities. We may not be able to anticipate and react effectively to shifts in tastes and interests in our markets. Our competitors may have greater numbers of original productions, better distribution, and greater capital resources, and may be able to react more quickly to shifts in tastes and interests. As a result, we may be unable to maintain the commercial success of any of our current programming, or to generate sufficient demand and market acceptance for our new programming. A shift in viewer preferences in programming or alternative entertainment activities could also cause a decline in both advertising and subscriber fees revenue. The decline in revenue could hinder or prevent us from achieving profitability or maintaining a positive cash flow and could adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock. If we are unable to increase our advertising revenue, we may be unable to achieve improved results. Although it is expected over time that our advertising revenue will increase, if we fail to significantly increase our advertising revenue, we may be unable to achieve or sustain improved results or to expand our business. A failure to increase advertising revenue may be a result of any or all of the following: (i) the current economic environment presents uncertainty regarding the condition of the advertising marketplace and the financial health of many industry segments and individual companies, including those which advertise on our channels; (ii) we may be unable to reduce our average viewer age to be within our target audience of viewers between the ages of 25 and 54; (iii) we may be unable to identify, attract and retain experienced sales and marketing personnel with relevant experience; (iv) our sales and marketing organization may be unable to successfully compete against the significantly more extensive and well-funded sales and marketing operations of our current or potential competitors; (v) the advancement of technologies such as Digital Video Recording may cause advertisers to shift their expenditures to media in which their commercial messages are not circumvented by the technology; and/or (vi) we will not be able to increase our advertising sales rate-card or may be required to run additional advertising spots to fulfill guaranteed delivery numbers which affect the availability of advertising inventory for future sales. Success in increasing our advertising revenue also depends upon the number and coverage of the distributors who carry our channels, our number of subscribers, and the viewership ratings for our programming. Current economic conditions have resulted in softness of advertising rates and may materially adversely impact our business. In the second half of 2008, we experienced some softening of our general advertising rate prices and a more dramatic decrease in the rates of our direct response advertising because of economic 14 Table of Contents conditions. We expect the softness in advertising rates to continue during 2009. The volume of advertising has not been impacted. See "Results of Operations" in Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008, in this Report for additional information on this subject. In addition, the turmoil in the investment market, the tightening of credit and relatively high, increasing levels of unemployment in the United States have lead to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and possibly a reduction in business activity generally. A continuation of these conditions could have the following negative effects, among others: (1) a reduction in spending by advertisers and consumers in general, which in turn could reduce our number of subscribers and/or advertising rates, resulting in reduced revenue; (2) an increase in bad debts or the reserve for bad debts; making more difficult or unlikely a refinancing or restructuring of our outstanding indebtedness; and (3) exposure to any increased interest expense to the extent that any refinanced or restructured debt could be at a higher cost. Hallmark Entertainment Investments controls us and this control could create conflicts of interest or inhibit potential changes of control. Hallmark Entertainment Investments owns all of our outstanding shares of Class B common stock and owns approximately 80.1% of the outstanding shares of our Class A common stock, representing in the aggregate approximately 95.7% of the outstanding voting power on all matters submitted to our stockholders. Hallmark Entertainment Holdings, a subsidiary of Hallmark Cards, controls the voting of all our shares held by Hallmark Entertainment Investments. Additionally, a significant portion of our overall indebtedness is held by Hallmark Cards or its wholly owned affiliates. This control could discourage others from initiating potential merger, takeover or other change of control transactions that may otherwise be beneficial to our business or holders of Class A common stock. As a result, the market price of our Class A common stock could suffer, and our business could suffer. In addition, the control that Hallmark Cards and/or these specific wholly-owned affiliates may exert over us, either directly or indirectly, could give rise to conflicts of interest in certain situations. We could lose the right to use the name "Hallmark" because we have limited-duration license agreements, which could harm our business. We license the name "Hallmark" from Hallmark Licensing, Inc., a subsidiary of Hallmark Cards, for use in the names of our Channels. This license will expire on September 1, 2009. If Hallmark Cards determines not to renew the trademark license agreements for any reason, including failure to comply with Hallmark Cards' programming standards, we would be forced to significantly revise our business plan and operations, and could experience a significant erosion of our subscriber base and advertising revenue. If our third-party suppliers fail to provide us with network infrastructure services on a timely basis, our costs could increase and our growth could be hindered. We currently rely on third parties to supply key network infrastructure services, including uplink, playback, transmission and satellite services to our market, which are available only from limited sources. We have occasionally experienced delays and other problems in receiving communications equipment, services and facilities and may, in the future, be unable to obtain such services, equipment or facilities on the scale and within the time frames required by us on terms we find acceptable, or at all. If we are unable to obtain, or if we experience a delay in the delivery of, such services, we may be forced to incur significant unanticipated expenses to secure alternative third party suppliers or adjust our operations, which could hinder our growth and reduce our revenue and potential profitability. 15 Table of Contents If we are unable to retain key executives and other personnel, our growth could be inhibited and our business harmed. Our success depends on the expertise and continued service of our executive officers and key employees of our subsidiaries. If we fail to attract, hire or retain the necessary personnel, or if we lose the services of our key executives, we may be unable to implement our business plan or keep pace with developing trends in our industry. The amount of our goodwill may hinder our ability to achieve profitability. As a result of our acquisitions of all the common interests in Crown Media United States, we have recorded a significant amount of goodwill. We are required to periodically review whether the value of our goodwill has been impaired. If we are required to write down our goodwill, our results of operations, stockholders' equity (deficit) could be materially adversely affected. Our stock price may be volatile and could decline substantially. The stock market has, from time to time, experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Many factors may cause the market price for our Class A common stock to decline, including the following: •failure of our operating results to meet the expectations of investors in any quarter; •economic conditions that adversely affect our advertising rates or our number of subscribers; •material announcements by us or our competitors; •governmental regulatory action; •technological innovations by competitors or competing technologies; •perceptions by the investing community or our customers with respect to the prospects of our company or our industry; •changes in general market conditions or economic trends; and •failure by us to renew major distribution agreements. Additionally, of the approximately 74.1 million shares of the Company's outstanding Class A common stock, only 11.6 million shares (approximately 16%) are held by non-affiliates of the Company. This stock ownership structure may also be a cause of volatility in the market price of the Company's Class A common stock. Prior to entering into a new agreement on January 2, 2008, certain programming and other commitments in then existing agreements with the National Interfaith Cable Coalition ("NICC") would have terminated upon the sale of 50% or more of the shares of Class A common stock owned by NICC. On January 2, 2008, we and NICC entered into a new agreement superseding prior agreements and terminating most programming relationships with NICC. Additionally, NICC owns approximately 4.4 million shares of the Company's Class A common stock. As a result of the agreement mentioned above, NICC has sold some of its Class A common stock and may continue to do so, which could have an adverse impact on the share price of our Class A common stock. 16 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Industry The recent change in the television rating system in the United States could reduce our Channel revenue and our ability to achieve profitability. Our domestic advertising revenue is partially dependent on television ratings provided by Nielsen Media Research. In 2007, Nielsen modified its ratings system by increasing its household sample size. In the fourth quarter of 2007, Nielsen began measuring and providing performance data based on viewing of commercial content as well as programming content. As the impact of the changes continue to take effect, our ratings could either be positively or negatively affected by these changes, depending on the demographic characteristics of the households added to the Nielsen sample and the nature of the changes in the measurement systems. From the beginning of the fourth quarter of 2007 through the fourth quarter of 2008, we experienced a decrease in viewers of approximately 5% under the new ratings measurement system compared to the system previously in use. We have factored the new rating information into our advertising rates. Nielsen is continually in the process of modifying its ratings system to accommodate emerging technologies. Competition could reduce our Channels revenue and our ability to achieve profitability. We operate in the pay television business, which is highly competitive. If we are unable to compete effectively with large diversified entertainment companies that have substantially greater resources than we have, our operating margins and market share could be reduced, and the growth of our business inhibited. In particular, we compete for distribution with other pay television channels and, when distribution is obtained, for viewers and advertisers with pay television channels, broadcast television networks, radio, the Internet and other media. We also compete, to varying degrees, with other leisure-time activities such as movie theaters, the Internet, radio, print media, electronic games and other alternative sources of entertainment and information. Future technological developments may affect competition within this business. A continuing trend towards business combinations and alliances in the communications industry may create significant new competitors for us or intensify existing competition. Many of these combined entities have more than one channel and resources far greater than ours. These combined entities may provide bundled packages of programming, delivery and other services that compete directly with the products we offer. We may need to reduce our prices or license additional programming to remain competitive, and we may be unable to sustain future pricing levels as competition increases. Our failure to achieve or sustain market acceptance of our programming at desired pricing levels could impair our ability to achieve profitability or positive cash flow, which would harm our business. Distributors in the United States may attempt to pressure pay TV channels having lower viewership, such as our Channels, to accept decreasing amounts for subscriber fees, to pay higher subscriber acquisition fees or to allow carriage of the Channels without the payment of subscriber fees. Factors that may lead to this pressure include the number of competing pay TV channels, the limited space available on services of distributors in the United States and the desire of distributors to maintain or reduce costs. Any reduction in subscriber fees revenue now or in the future could have a material impact on our operating results and cash flow. 17 Table of Contents New distribution technologies may fundamentally change the way we distribute our Channels and could significantly decrease our revenue or require us to incur significant capital expenditures. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and adapt to technological changes and to offer, on a timely basis, services that meet customer demands and evolving industry standards. The pay television industry has been, and is likely to continue to be, subject to: •rapid and significant technological change, including continuing developments in technology which do not presently have widely accepted standards; and •frequent introductions of new services and alternative technologies, including new technologies for providing video services. For example, the advent of digital technology is likely to accelerate the convergence of broadcast, telecommunications, Internet and other media and could result in material changes in the economics, regulations, intellectual property usage and technical platforms on which our business relies, including lower retail rates for video services. These changes could fundamentally affect the scale, source, and volatility of our revenue streams, cost structures, and operating results, and may require us to significantly change our operations. We also rely in part on third parties for the development of, and access to, communications and network technology. As a result, we may be unable to obtain access to new technology on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms, which could harm our business and prospects. Moreover, the increased capacity of digital distribution platforms, including the introduction of digital terrestrial television, may reduce the competition for the right to carry channels and allow development of extra services at low incremental cost. These lower incremental costs could lower barriers to entry for competing channels, and place pressure on our operating margins and market position. Changes in laws or regulations could adversely affect our distribution and thus our revenue. The Federal Communications Commission or Congress may enact requirements that cable program services be offered to subscribers on an "a la carte" basis, i.e. be made available for purchase separately and not as part of a package of services or that the services be offered in specific packages such as a so-called "family tier." Such requirements could result in a reduction in the total number of subscribers to our program services and adversely affect advertising revenue. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 