ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the following information about risks and uncertainties that may affect us or our business, together with the other information appearing elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K. If any of the following events, described as risks, actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects would likely be materially and adversely affected. In these circumstances, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment in our securities. An investment in our securities is speculative and involves a high degree of risk. You should not invest in our securities if you cannot bear the economic risk of your investment for an indefinite period of time and cannot afford to lose your entire investment. Risks Related to Our Business Our success depends substantially on our most advanced product candidate, lesinurad (previously called RDEA594). We cannot be certain that this product candidate will receive regulatory approval or be successfully commercialized. We are currently focusing substantially all of our development efforts on our product candidate for the treatment of gout, lesinurad, and our near-term prospects depend almost entirely on lesinurad’s successful development and commercialization. We currently have no drug products approved for sale and we may never be able to develop marketable drug products. The research, testing, manufacturing, labeling, approval, sale, marketing and distribution of drug products are subject to extensive regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and other regulatory authorities in the U.S. and other countries, whose regulations differ from country to country. We are not permitted to market our product candidates in the U.S. until we receive approval of a new drug application, or NDA, from the FDA, or in any foreign countries until we receive the requisite approval from the regulatory authorities of such countries. We have not received marketing approval for any of our product candidates. Our near-term success is substantially dependent on our ability to successfully complete the approval process for lesinurad. Obtaining this approval is a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process that could require the expenditure of substantial and unanticipated resources. An approval letter from the FDA authorizes commercial marketing of the drug with specific prescribing information for specific indications. As a condition of approval, the FDA may require substantial post-approval testing and surveillance to monitor the drug’s safety or efficacy and may impose other conditions which can affect the potential market and profitability of the drug. Once granted, product approvals may be withdrawn if compliance with regulatory standards is not maintained or problems are identified following initial marketing. 10 Table of Contents The FDA has substantial discretion in this drug approval process, including the ability to delay, limit or deny approval of a product candidate for many reasons. For example the FDA may: • not deem a product candidate safe and effective; • not find the data from preclinical studies and clinical trials sufficient to support approval; • not agree with our interpretation and characterization of efficacy and safety data from our clinical trials; • require additional preclinical or clinical studies; • not approve of our third-party manufacturers’ processes and facilities; or • change its approval policies, adopt new regulations, or provide new guidance or change its view regarding guidance previously provided. Lesinurad has been evaluated in a comprehensive Phase 2 development program designed to demonstrate its clinical utility. As part of its ongoing Phase 3 clinical development plan, lesinurad will need to successfully complete additional pivotal clinical trials, as well as potential additional non-pivotal clinical trials. We have completed formal End-of-Phase 2 meetings with the FDA and received advice from the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, and have incorporated input from these regulatory agencies in the design of our Phase 3 clinical development plan for lesinurad. Our product candidates may not be approved even if they achieve their specified endpoints in these and future clinical trials. For example, lesinurad may not be approved even though it achieved its specified endpoints in the Phase 3 clinical trials and met the FDA, EMA or other regulatory authorities’ guidance on the general efficacy benchmarks required in pivotal trials. The FDA, EMA or other regulatory authorities may disagree with our trial design and our interpretation of efficacy and safety data from the Phase 3 clinical trials, or may change the requirements for approval even after it has reviewed and commented on the design for those clinical trials. The FDA, EMA or other regulatory authorities may also approve lesinurad for fewer or more limited indications than we request, may request additional clinical trials prior to approval, or may grant approval contingent on the performance of costly additional clinical trials prior to or after approval. In addition, the FDA, EMA or other regulatory authorities might not approve the labeling that we believe is necessary or desirable for the successful commercialization of lesinurad. Any failure to obtain regulatory approval of lesinurad would limit our ability to ever generate revenues (and any failure to obtain such approval for all of the indications and labeling claims we deem desirable could reduce our potential revenue) and would have a material and adverse impact on our business. Development of our products will take years; we may never attain product sales; and we expect to continue to incur net operating losses. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, substantial operating losses for the foreseeable future. We expect that most of our resources for the foreseeable future will be dedicated to further development of lesinurad and our next-generation compound for the chronic treatment of gout, RDEA3170. The amounts paid to advance lesinurad and RDEA3170 will continue to increase substantially, and may be higher than anticipated. Lesinurad, RDEA3170 and any other compounds we may advance through preclinical and clinical development will require extensive and costly development, preclinical testing and clinical trials prior to seeking regulatory approval for commercial sales and may never be approved for commercial sales. The time required to achieve product sales and profitability is lengthy and highly uncertain and we cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve or maintain product sales. We are not currently profitable and may never become profitable. To date, we have generated limited revenues and we do not anticipate generating significant revenues for at least several years, if ever. We expect to increase our operating expenses over the next several years as we plan 11 Table of Contents to advance our product candidates into further preclinical testing and clinical trials, and may expand our research and development activities and acquire or license new technologies and product candidates. As a result, we expect to continue to incur significant and potentially increasing operating losses for the foreseeable future. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with our research and product development efforts, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when we will become profitable, if ever. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on an ongoing basis. Because the results of preclinical studies and early clinical trials are not necessarily predictive of future results, we can provide no assurances that lesinurad, RDEA3170, BAY 86-9766 (RDEA119) or any other of our product candidates will have favorable results in future clinical trials or receive regulatory approval. Positive results from preclinical studies and early clinical trials should not be relied upon as evidence that later or larger-scale clinical trials will succeed. Even if our product candidates achieve positive results in preclinical studies, we will be required to demonstrate through clinical trials that these product candidates are safe and effective for use in a diverse population before we can seek regulatory approvals for their commercial sale. There is an extremely high historical rate of failure of product candidates proceeding through clinical trials in our industry. There is no guarantee that the efficacy of any product candidate, including lesinurad, shown in early patient trials will be replicated or maintained in future trials of longer duration and/or larger patient populations. Similarly, favorable safety and tolerability data seen in short-term studies might not be replicated in studies of longer duration and/or larger patient populations. Data from additional preclinical studies may also reveal unacceptable levels of toxicity of our product candidates. If any product candidate demonstrates insufficient safety, unacceptable interactions with other medications or insufficient efficacy in any clinical trial, then we would experience potentially significant delays in, or be required to abandon, development of that product candidate. If we delay or abandon our development efforts of any of our product candidates, then we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to become profitable, and our reputation in the industry and in the investment community would likely be significantly damaged, each of which would cause our stock price to decrease significantly. Delays in the commencement of clinical testing of our current and potential product candidates could result in increased costs to us and delay our ability to generate revenues. Our product candidates require preclinical testing and extensive clinical trials prior to submission of any regulatory application for commercial sales. Delays in the commencement of any phase of clinical testing of our product candidates could significantly increase our product development costs and delay product commercialization. In addition, many of the factors that may cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to denial of regulatory approval of a product candidate. The commencement of clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including: • delays in demonstrating sufficient safety and efficacy to obtain regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial; • delays in reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations and clinical trial sites; • delays in manufacturing quantities of a product candidate sufficient for clinical trials; • delays in obtaining approval of an IND from the FDA or similar foreign approval; • delays in obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site; and • insufficient financial resources. In addition, the commencement of clinical trials may be delayed due to slow or insufficient patient enrollment, which is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the 12 Table of Contents protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease, the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial or the failure on the part of clinical investigators or contract research organizations to properly carry out their contractual obligations or meet expected recruitment deadlines. Finally, we may intentionally delay the commencement of clinical trials with respect to product candidates until we enter into a collaboration or license agreement with another party to fund the clinical trials of such product candidates. Once clinical testing of lesinurad, RDEA3170, BAY 86-9766 (RDEA119) and other potential product candidates has commenced, the termination, or delays in the completion, of clinical testing could result in increased costs to us and delay or prevent us from generating revenues. Once a clinical trial for any current or potential product candidate has begun, it may be delayed, suspended or terminated by us, the FDA or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including: • ongoing discussions with the FDA or other regulatory authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials or requests for supplemental information with respect to our clinical trial results; • failure to conduct clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements; • lower than anticipated recruitment rate or retention rate of patients in clinical trials; • the imposition of a clinical hold; • lack of adequate funding to continue clinical trials; • negative results of clinical trials; • changes to clinical trials protocols; • failure on the part of clinical investigators or contract research organizations to properly carry out their contractual obligations, adhere to clinical protocols or meet expected deadlines; • insufficient supply or deficient quality of product candidates or other materials necessary for the conduct of our clinical trials; or • serious adverse events or other undesirable drug-related side effects experienced by clinical trial participants. Many of these factors that may lead to a delay, suspension or termination of clinical testing of a current or potential product candidate may also ultimately lead to denial of regulatory approval of a current or potential product candidate. If we experience delays in the completion, or termination of, clinical testing, our financial results and the commercial prospects for our product candidates will be harmed, and our ability to generate revenues from those products will be delayed. We depend on outside parties to conduct our preclinical and clinical trials, which may result in costs and delays that prevent us from obtaining regulatory approval or successfully commercializing product candidates. We engage clinical investigators and medical institutions to enroll patients in our clinical trials and contract research organizations to perform data collection and analysis and other aspects of our preclinical studies and clinical trials. As a result, we depend on these clinical investigators, medical institutions and contract research organizations to properly perform the studies and trials. If these parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations, meet expected deadlines, or if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or for other reasons, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated. We may not be able to make satisfactory alternative arrangements without undue delays or excessive expenditures. If there are delays in testing or regulatory approvals as a result of the 13 Table of Contents failure to perform by third parties, our drug development costs will increase and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for, or successfully commercialize, our product candidates. In addition, we may not be able to maintain any of these existing relationships, or establish new ones on acceptable terms, if at all. If our efforts to develop and commercialize lesinurad are unsuccessful, we may be required to obtain rights to new products or product candidates from other parties, which we may not be able to do. Our current primary focus is on the advancement of lesinurad through clinical development, regulatory approval and commercialization. If we are not successful, we may seek to identify and obtain new products or product candidates from other parties. We may be unable to obtain suitable product candidates or products from other parties for a number of reasons, including: • our inability to purchase or license products or product candidates on terms that would allow us to make a sufficient financial return from resulting products; • competitors may be unwilling to assign or license products or product candidate rights to us; or • we may be unable to identify suitable products or product candidates within, or complementary to, our areas of interest or capabilities. If we are unable to obtain rights to new products or product candidates from other parties, our ability to generate product revenues and achieve profitability may suffer. If we successfully complete clinical trials for lesinurad or any other product candidate, there are no assurances that we will be able to submit, or obtain regulatory approval of, a new drug application. There can be no assurance that even if our clinical trials of lesinurad or any other potential product candidate are successfully completed, we will be able to submit a NDA to the FDA in the U.S. or similar application to other regulatory authorities elsewhere in the world, or that any applications we submit will be approved by these regulatory authorities in a timely manner, if at all. If we are unable to submit a NDA or similar application with respect to lesinurad or any other product candidate, or if any NDA or similar application we submit is not approved by the FDA or other regulatory authorities elsewhere in the world, we will be unable to commercialize that product. These authorities can and do reject new drug applications and require additional clinical trials, even when product candidates have performed well or have achieved favorable results in clinical trials. If we fail to commercialize lesinurad or any other product candidate, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenues to attain profitability and our reputation in the industry and in the investment community would likely be damaged, each of which would cause our stock price to decrease. If we successfully develop products, but those products do not achieve and maintain market acceptance, our business will not be profitable. Even if lesinurad, RDEA3170, BAY 86-9766 (RDEA119) or other product candidates are approved for commercial sale by the FDA or other regulatory authorities, our profitability and growth will depend on the degree of market acceptance of any approved product candidate by physicians, healthcare professionals and third-party payors, which will in turn depend on a number of factors, including: • our ability to provide acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy of our products; • relative convenience and ease of administration of products; • the prevalence and severity of any adverse side effects from the products; • the availability of alternative treatments; • pricing and cost effectiveness of products; and • sufficient third-party insurance coverage or reimbursement. 14 Table of Contents In addition, even if any of our potential products achieve market acceptance, we may not be able to maintain that market acceptance over time if: • new products or technologies are introduced that are more favorably received than our potential future products, are more cost effective or render our potential future products obsolete; or • complications arise with respect to use of our potential future products. We may need substantial additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed, or at all, which would force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our research and development programs or commercialization efforts. We anticipate that our existing cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments, including the funds received from our recent public offering, will be sufficient to satisfy our current and projected funding requirements for at least the next 12 months. The amounts paid to advance lesinurad and RDEA3170 will continue to increase substantially in the near term, and may be higher than anticipated. We may need to raise additional capital to complete the development, regulatory review and approval process and commercial launch of lesinurad. Also, our business and operations may change in a manner that would consume available resources at a greater rate than anticipated or require more capital than currently anticipated. For example, the FDA may require unanticipated, additional clinical trials of lesinurad prior to or even after approval. In addition, we may need to raise substantial additional capital in the future to, among other things: • establish and maintain manufacturing, sales and marketing operations; • commercialize lesinurad or other product candidates, if any, that receive regulatory approval; and • acquire rights to products or product candidates, technologies or businesses. Our future funding requirements will depend on, and could increase significantly as a result of, many factors, including: • the rate of progress and cost of our research and development activities; • the scope, prioritization and number of preclinical studies and clinical trials we pursue; • the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights; • the costs and timing of regulatory approval; • the costs of establishing or contracting for manufacturing, sales and marketing capabilities; • the effects of competing technological and market developments; • the terms and timing of any collaborative, licensing and other arrangements that we may establish; and • the extent to which we acquire or license new technologies, products or product candidates. We do not anticipate that we will generate significant continuing revenues for at least several years, if ever. Until we can generate significant continuing revenues, we expect to satisfy our future cash needs through public or private equity offerings, debt financings and corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements, as well as through interest income earned on cash balances. We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Our ability to obtain new financing may be constrained by unfavorable economic conditions affecting financial markets and numerous other factors. If funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our research or development programs or our commercialization efforts. 15 Table of Contents Raising additional funds by issuing securities or through additional collaboration and licensing arrangements may cause dilution to existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish proprietary rights. We have a history of raising funds through security offerings and we may raise additional funds through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or corporate collaborations and licensing arrangements. We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. To the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our stockholders’ ownership will be diluted. Any debt financing we obtain may involve covenants that restrict our operations. These restrictive covenants may include, among other things, limitations on borrowing, specific restrictions on the use of our assets, as well as prohibitions on our ability to create liens on our assets, pay dividends on or redeem our capital stock or make investments. In addition, if we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us or relinquish potentially valuable rights to our potential products or proprietary technologies. We may be required in future collaborations to relinquish all or a portion of our sales and marketing rights with respect to potential products or license intellectual property that enable licensees to develop competing products in order to complete any such transaction. We have experienced periods of significant growth as well as reductions in the size of our organization and may experience similar fluctuations again in the future, and we may experience difficulties in managing these organizational changes. We may need to expand in order to successfully pursue our research, development and commercialization efforts and secure collaborations to market and distribute our products. If we continue to grow, it is possible that our management, accounting and scientific personnel, systems and facilities currently in place may not be adequate to support this future growth. To manage any growth, we will be required to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures and to attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees. We may be unable to successfully manage the expansion of our operations or operate on a larger scale and, accordingly, may not achieve our research, development and commercialization goals. Alternatively, we have reduced the size of our organization in the past and may need to do so again in the future in response to internal or external adverse financial conditions or events. If, as a result of a reduction, our staffing is inadequate because of additional, unanticipated attrition or because we fail to retain the staffing level required to accomplish our business objectives we may be delayed or unable to continue the development or commercialization of our product candidates, which could impede our ability to generate revenues and achieve profitability. Additionally, employees whose positions are eliminated in connection with any reduction may seek future employment with our competitors. Although all of our employees are required to sign a confidentiality agreement with us at the time of hire, we cannot assure you that the confidential nature of our proprietary information will be maintained in the course of such future employment. Our restructuring efforts may harm our reputation and employee morale, impair our ability to attract and retain future employees, and increase our expenses in the short term. We cannot assure you that any future restructuring efforts will be successful, or that we will be able to realize the cost savings and other anticipated benefits from future restructuring activities. The investment of our cash balance and investments in marketable securities are subject to risks that may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. Our short-term investments consist primarily of securities of the U.S. government’s federal agencies, entities controlled by the federal government, U.S. corporate debt securities, U.S. and foreign commercial paper and certificates of deposits. These investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which may be further exacerbated by U.S. sub-prime mortgage defaults, concerns regarding the credit-worthiness of 16 Table of Contents the U.S. government and other factors, which have affected various sectors of the financial markets and caused credit and liquidity issues. For the year ended December 31, 2011, we determined that any declines in the fair value of our investments were temporary. There may be further declines in the value of these investments, which we may determine to be other than temporary. These market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. We depend on collaborations with other parties to develop and commercialize selected product candidates and to provide substantially all of our revenues. We expect that, for at least the next few years, our ability to generate significant revenues will depend in large part upon the success of our existing collaboration with Bayer and our ability to enter into new collaborations. Future revenues from our collaboration with Bayer will depend mainly on the achievement of development-, regulatory- and sales-based contingent event-based payments and royalty payments, if any. We will not receive additional revenues from our existing collaboration if Bayer’s development and commercialization efforts are unsuccessful. Typically, collaborators, including Bayer, will control the development and commercialization of partnered compounds after entering into a collaboration or license agreement. In addition, we may not have complete access to information about the results and status of our collaborators’ clinical development and regulatory programs and strategies. Our collaborators may not devote adequate resources to the development of our compounds and may not develop or implement a successful clinical or regulatory strategy. We cannot guarantee that any development-, regulatory- or sales-based contingent event-based payments in our existing or future collaborations will be achieved on the timelines we anticipate, or at all. We cannot guarantee that we will receive any payments for the achievement of any contingent events or royalties on sales of products. In addition, collaborations, including our existing collaboration with Bayer, may be terminated early in certain circumstances, in which case, we may not receive future contingent event-based or royalty payments. Each of these concerns would also apply in the event we choose to enter into a collaboration with a partner for our gout program. Our ability to enter into new collaborations will depend in part on finding appropriate partners for our development programs. There has recently been increased consolidation and strategic realignment among pharmaceutical companies. This has reduced the number of potential partners for our product candidates and may make it more difficult to identify a partner and enter into any potential collaboration. Even if potential partners are interested in our programs, we may be unable to agree with potential partners on the value of our development programs or other material terms of a collaboration. For example, because there have only been two new products for the treatment of gout approved and introduced in the U.S. in the last 40 years there is very limited data on the gout market available. Accordingly, the market size, appropriate pricing and customer demand for lesinurad, if approved, is difficult to estimate. Finally, our ability to enter into new collaborations also depends on the outcome of preclinical and clinical testing, the results of which we cannot control. Even if our testing is successful, pharmaceutical companies may not partner with us on terms that we believe are acceptable until we have advanced our drug candidates into the clinic and, possibly, through later-stage clinical trials, if at all. Conflicts may arise between us and any of our collaborators that could delay or prevent the development or commercialization of our product candidates. Conflicts may arise between our collaborators and us, such as conflicts concerning the interpretation of clinical data or the achievement of events that would trigger contingent event-based payments. If any conflicts arise with Bayer or any future collaborators, they may act in their self-interest, which may be adverse to our best 17 Table of Contents interests. Any such disagreement between us and a collaborator could result in one or more of the following, each of which could delay or prevent the development or commercialization of our product candidates, and in turn, prevent us from generating sufficient revenues to achieve or maintain profitability: • unwillingness on the part of a collaborator to pay us contingent event-based payments or royalties we believe are due to us under our collaboration or license agreement; • unwillingness on the part of a collaborator to keep us informed regarding the progress of its development and commercialization activities or to permit public disclosure of the results of those activities; • slowing or cessation of a collaborator’s development or commercialization efforts with respect to our product candidates; or • costly and time-consuming litigation or dispute resolution. We do not have internal manufacturing capabilities, and if we fail to develop and maintain internal capabilities or supply relationships with collaborators or other outside manufacturers, we may be unable to develop or commercialize any products. Our ability to develop and commercialize lesinurad and any other products we may develop depends in part on our ability to manufacture, or arrange for collaborators or other parties to manufacture, our products at a competitive cost, in accordance with regulatory requirements, and in sufficient quantities for clinical testing and eventual commercialization. Our current manufacturing agreements for lesinurad reflect a much smaller scale than would be required for commercial manufacturing. If our manufacturers do not satisfy their contractual duties or obligations, including with respect to quantity or quality, or meet established deadlines, our clinical trials may be significantly delayed or compromised and costs would increase. We currently work with a limited number of outside manufacturers. If we need to replace an unsatisfactory manufacturer, or increase our capacity, our inability to enter into or maintain manufacturing agreements with collaborators or capable contract manufacturers on acceptable terms could delay or prevent the development and commercialization of lesinurad and other products, which would adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and would increase our expenses. If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities or enter into agreements with other parties to sell and market any products we may develop, we may be unable to generate product revenue. We do not currently have a sales organization for the sales, marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical products. In order to commercialize lesinurad or any other products, we must build our sales, marketing, distribution, managerial and other non-technical capabilities or make arrangements with other parties to perform these services. We have not yet determined whether we will attempt to establish internal sales and marketing capabilities or enter into agreements with other parties to sell and market any products we may develop. The establishment and development of our own sales force to market any products we may develop will be expensive and time consuming and could delay any product launch, and we cannot be certain that we would be able to successfully develop this capacity. If we are unable to establish our sales and marketing capability or any other non-technical capabilities necessary to commercialize any product we may develop, we will need to contract with other parties to market and sell any products we may develop. If we are unable to establish adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, whether independently or with other parties, we may not be able to generate product revenue and may not become profitable. If we are unable to attract and retain key management and scientific staff, we may be unable to successfully develop or commercialize our product candidates. We are a small company, and our success depends on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management, clinical development, regulatory affairs and scientific personnel. If we are unable to hire or retain these employees, we may not be able to advance our research and development programs at the pace we anticipate. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified management, clinical development, 18 Table of Contents regulatory affairs and scientific personnel in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel among biotechnology and pharmaceutical businesses, particularly in the San Diego, California area. If we are not able to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will impede significantly the achievement of our research and development objectives. In addition, all of our employees are “at will” employees, which means that any employee may quit at any time and we may terminate any employee at any time. Currently, we do not have employment agreements with any employees or members of senior management that provide us any guarantee of their continued employment. If we lose members of our senior management team, we may not be able to find suitable replacements and our business may be harmed as a result. Our quarterly results and stock price may fluctuate significantly. We expect our results of operations and future stock price to continue to be subject to significant fluctuations. The level of our revenues, if any, our results of operations and our stock price at any given time will be based primarily on the following factors: • whether or not we achieve specified events that would trigger contingent event-based payments under any agreement that we enter into with collaborators and the timely payment by potential commercial collaborators of any amounts payable to us or by us to Valeant or any other party, including the contingent event-based payments that we may make to Valeant; • the addition or termination of research or development programs or funding support; • the status of development of our product candidates, including results of preclinical studies and any future clinical trials; • variations in the level of expenses related to the development and commercialization of our product candidates or potential product candidates during any given period; • our execution of collaborative, licensing or other arrangements, and the timing and accounting treatment of payments we make or receive under these arrangements; • our selection of additional compounds for development; and • fluctuations in the stock prices of other companies in the biotechnology and pharmaceuticals industries and in the financial markets generally. These factors, some of which are not within our control, may cause the price of our stock to fluctuate substantially. In particular, if our quarterly operating or financial results fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price could drop suddenly and significantly. We believe that quarterly comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. If we make any acquisition, we will incur a variety of costs, and we may never realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. In 2006, we acquired two pharmaceutical research and development programs from Valeant, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to successfully develop the acquired product candidates. We may attempt to acquire businesses, technologies, services or other products or in-license technologies that we believe are a strategic fit with our existing development programs, at the appropriate time and as resources permit. In any acquisition, the process of integrating the acquired business, personnel, technology, service or product may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and may divert significant management attention away from our ongoing business operations. Other operational and financial risks associated with acquisitions include: • assumption and exposure to unknown liabilities of an acquired business; 19 Table of Contents • disruption of our business and diversion of our management’s time and attention to acquiring and developing acquired products or technologies; • incurrence of substantial debt or dilutive issuances of securities to pay for acquisitions; • disagreements over interpretation of contractual terms in the acquisition agreements; • higher than expected acquisition and integration costs; • increased amortization expenses; • negative effect on our earnings (or loss) per share; • difficulties in combining and integrating the operations and personnel of any acquired businesses with our operations and personnel; • impairment of relationships with key suppliers, contractors or customers of any acquired businesses due to changes in management and ownership; and • inability to retain key employees of any acquired businesses. We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of any completed acquisition or devote resources to potential acquisitions that are never completed. If we fail to successfully identify strategic opportunities, complete strategic transactions or integrate acquired businesses, technologies, services or products, then we may not be able to successfully expand our product candidate portfolio to provide adequate revenue to attain and maintain profitability. Earthquake damage to our facilities could delay our research and development efforts and adversely affect our business. Our research and development facility in San Diego, California, is located in a seismic zone, and there is the possibility of an earthquake, which could be disruptive to our operations and result in delays in our research and development efforts. In the event of an earthquake, if our facilities or the equipment in our facilities are significantly damaged or destroyed, we may not be able to rebuild or relocate our facility or replace any damaged equipment in a timely manner and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures. Despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. Any system failure, accident or security breach that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption of our drug development programs. For example, the loss of clinical trial data from completed clinical trials for lesinurad could result in delays in our regulatory approval efforts and significantly increase our costs to recover or reproduce the data. To the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we may incur liability and the further development of our product candidate may be delayed. Failure to comply with our minimum commitments under the asset purchase agreement with Valeant could expose us to potential liability or otherwise adversely affect our business. Under the terms of the Valeant asset purchase agreement, we agreed to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop the product candidates in the pharmaceutical research and development programs we acquired from Valeant, with the objective of obtaining marketing approval for RDEA806, BAY 86-9766 (RDEA119) and the lead product candidates from the next generation NNRTI and MEK inhibitor programs in the U.S., the United Kingdom, 20 Table of Contents France, Spain, Italy and Germany. If we have a disagreement with Valeant on whether we have used commercially reasonable efforts to develop such product candidates, then we may be subject to a potential lawsuit or lawsuits from Valeant under the asset purchase agreement. If such a lawsuit was successful, we may be subject to financial losses, our reputation within the pharmaceutical research and development community may be negatively impacted and our business may suffer. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires on-going management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm that provides their assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls. Testing and maintaining internal controls involves significant costs and can divert our management’s attention from other matters that are important to our business. We and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could harm our operating results and could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the price of our stock. Our management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, does not expect that our internal controls over financial reporting will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations on all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud involving a company have been, or will be, detected. The design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and we cannot assure you that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. Because of the inherent limitations in cost-effective control systems, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. We cannot assure you that we or our independent registered public accounting firm will not identify a material weakness in our internal controls in the future. A material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting would require management and our independent registered public accounting firm to evaluate our internal controls as ineffective. If our internal controls over financial reporting are not considered effective, we may experience a loss of public confidence, which could have an adverse effect on our business and on the price of our stock. Risks Related to Our Industry Because our product candidates and development and collaboration efforts depend on our intellectual property rights, adverse events affecting our intellectual property rights will harm our ability to commercialize products. Our commercial success depends in significant part on obtaining and maintaining patent protection and trade secret protection of our product candidates and their uses, as well as successfully defending these patents against challenges. We will only be able to protect our product candidates and their uses from unauthorized use by other parties to the extent that valid and enforceable patents or effectively protected trade secrets cover them. Due to evolving legal standards relating to the patentability, validity and enforceability of patents covering pharmaceutical inventions and the scope of claims made under these patents, our ability to obtain and enforce patents is uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office 21 Table of Contents issued revised regulations affecting prosecution before that office, and various pieces of legislation, including patent reform acts, have been introduced or discussed in the U.S. Senate and Congress in the past few years. If implemented, or following final resolution of pending legislation, new regulations or legislation could, among other things, restrict our ability to prosecute applications in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, limit the number of patent claims in applications that we have previously filed or intend to file, and may lower the threshold required for competitors to challenge our patents in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office after they have been granted. Accordingly, rights under any issued patents may not provide us with sufficient protection for our product candidates or provide sufficient protection to afford us a commercial advantage against competitive products or processes. In addition, we cannot guarantee that any patents will issue from any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us. Even with respect to patents that have issued or will issue, we cannot guarantee that the claims of these patents are, or will be valid, enforceable or will provide us with any significant protection against competitive products or otherwise be commercially valuable to us. For example: • we might not have been the first to make, conceive or reduce to practice the inventions covered by any or all of our pending patent applications; • we might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; • it is possible that none of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents; • our issued or acquired patents may not provide a basis for commercially viable products, may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be challenged by other parties; • our issued patents may not be valid or enforceable; or • the patents of others may have an adverse effect on our business. Patent applications in the U.S. are maintained in confidence for at least 18 months after their filing. Consequently, we cannot be certain that the patent applications we are pursuing will lead to the issuance of any patent or be free from infringement or other claims from other parties. In the event that another party has also filed a U.S. patent application relating to our product candidates or a similar invention, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent Office to determine priority of invention in the U.S. The costs of these proceedings could be substantial and it is possible that our efforts would be unsuccessful, resulting in a material adverse effect on our U.S. patent position. Furthermore, we may not have identified all U.S. and foreign patents or published applications that affect our business either by blocking our ability to commercialize our product candidates or by covering similar technologies that affect our market. In addition, some countries, including many in Europe, do not grant patent claims directed to methods of treating humans, and in these countries patent protection may not be available at all to protect our product candidates. Even if patents issue, we cannot guarantee that the claims of those patents will be valid and enforceable or provide us with any significant protection against competitive products, or otherwise be commercially valuable to us. Other companies may obtain patents and/or regulatory approvals to use the same drugs to treat diseases other than gout and cancer. As a result, we may not be able to enforce our patents effectively because we may not be able to prevent healthcare providers from prescribing, administering or using another company’s product that contains the same active substance as our products when treating patients with gout and cancer. Additionally, on September 16, 2011, the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, or the Leahy-Smith Act, was signed into law. The Leahy-Smith Act includes a number of significant changes to United States patent 22 Table of Contents law. These include provisions that affect the way patent applications will be prosecuted and may also affect patent litigation. The United States Patent Office is currently developing regulations and procedures to govern administration of the Leahy-Smith Act, and many of the substantive changes to patent law associated with the Leahy-Smith Act will not become effective until one year or 18 months after its enactment. Accordingly, it is not clear what, if any, impact the Leahy-Smith Act will have on the operation of our business. However, the Leahy-Smith Act and its implementation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Our business depends upon not infringing the rights of others. If we are sued for infringing intellectual property rights of others, it will be costly and time consuming, and an unfavorable outcome in that litigation would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our commercial success depends upon our ability to develop, manufacture, market and sell our product candidates without infringing the proprietary rights of other parties. We may be exposed to future litigation by other parties based on claims that our product candidates or activities infringe the intellectual property rights of others. There are numerous U.S. and foreign-issued patents and pending patent applications owned by others in gout, cancer and the other fields in which we or our partners may develop products. We cannot assure you that parties holding any of these patents or patent applications will not assert infringement claims against us for damages or seek to enjoin our activities. We also cannot assure you that, in the event of litigation, we will be able to successfully assert any belief we may have as to non-infringement, invalidity or immateriality, or that any infringement claims will be resolved in our favor. There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industries generally. Any litigation or claims against us, with or without merit, may cause us to incur substantial costs, could place a significant strain on our financial resources, divert the attention of management from our core business and harm our reputation. In addition, intellectual property litigation or claims could result in substantial damages and force us to do one or more of the following if a court decides that we infringe on another party’s patent or other intellectual property rights: • cease selling, incorporating or using any of our products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • obtain a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right, which license may be costly or may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; or • redesign our processes so that they do not infringe, which could be costly and time-consuming and may not be possible. If we find during clinical evaluation that our product candidates for the treatment of gout or cancer should be used in combination with a product covered by a patent held by another company or institution, and that a labeling instruction is required in product packaging recommending that combination, we could be accused of, or held liable for, infringement of the other party’s patents covering the product recommended for co-administration with our product. In that case, we may be required to obtain a license from the other company or institution to use the required or desired package labeling, which may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all. If we fail to obtain any required licenses or make any necessary changes to our technologies, we may be unable to develop or commercialize some or all of our product candidates. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information and may not adequately protect our intellectual property. We also rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. In order to protect our proprietary 23 Table of Contents technology and processes, we rely in part on confidentiality and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, consultants and other advisors. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information or result in the effective assignment to us of intellectual property, and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information or other breaches of the agreements. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such case we could not assert any trade secret rights against such party. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is difficult, expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the U.S. may be less willing to protect trade secrets. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to seek to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. Many of our competitors have significantly more resources and experience, which may harm our commercial opportunity. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are subject to intense competition and rapid and significant technological change. We have many potential competitors, including major drug and chemical companies, specialized biotechnology firms, academic institutions, government agencies and private and public research institutions. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources, experience and expertise in: • research and development; • preclinical testing; • clinical trials; • regulatory approvals; • manufacturing; and • sales and marketing of approved products. Smaller or early stage companies and research institutions may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established pharmaceutical companies. We will also face competition from these parties in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, and acquiring and in-licensing technologies and products complementary to our programs or potentially advantageous to our business. If our competitors develop treatments for gout or cancer that are approved faster, marketed better or demonstrated to be safer or more effective than any products that we or our partners may develop, our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated. We believe that a significant number of drugs are currently under development and may become available in the future for the treatment of gout or cancer. Potential competitors may develop treatments for gout or cancer or other technologies and products that are safer, more effective or less costly than our product candidates or that would make our technology and product candidates obsolete or non-competitive. Some of these products may use therapeutic approaches that compete directly with our product candidates. If any of our competitors succeed in obtaining approval from the FDA or other regulatory authorities for their products sooner than we do or for products that are more effective or less costly than ours, our commercial opportunity could be significantly reduced. We also face competition from generic products and currently marketed products. For example, several competitors of lesinurad are products that are already approved for the treatment of gout and hyperuricemia, including allopurinol, Uloric and Krystexxa. Allopurinol is a generic product and the current standard of care for most gout patients. As such, allopurinol is sold for a much lower price than we intend to charge for lesinurad, if 24 Table of Contents approved, and could limit the demand, and the price we are able to charge, for lesinurad. Uloric and Krystexxa are two recently approved products for the treatment of gout. Both of these products have advantage of entering and becoming established in the market before lesinurad. If we cannot establish favorable pricing of lesinurad and other product candidates acceptable to the U.S. or foreign governments, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors, or arrange for favorable reimbursement policies, any product sales will be severely hindered. The continuing efforts of the U.S. and foreign governments, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of health care costs to contain or reduce costs of health care may adversely affect our ability to generate adequate revenues and gross margins to make the products we develop commercially viable. Our ability to commercialize any product candidates successfully will depend in part on the extent to which governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations establish appropriate reimbursement levels for the cost of such products and related treatments. In certain foreign markets, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to government control. In the U.S., comprehensive health care reform legislation has been enacted by the federal government and we expect that there will continue to be a number of federal and state proposals to implement government control over the cost of prescription pharmaceuticals and on the reform of the Medicare and Medicaid systems. The trend toward managed health care in the U.S. will continue to manifest itself in the preference for less expensive generic products and put pressure on the rate of adoption and pricing of branded prescription pharmaceuticals, which may result in lower prices for our product candidates. For example, the availability of generic allopurinol for the treatment of gout and hyperuricemia will exert negative pressure in the pricing of lesinurad, if it is approved. While we are currently unable to predict what additional legislation or regulation, if any, relating to the health care industry or third-party coverage and reimbursement may be enacted in the future, or what effect federal health care reform legislation will have on our business, such regulations could have a material adverse effect on our potential revenues and gross margins. We will continue to monitor the effect of federal health care reform legislation to determine its impact on our business and potential revenues. Product liability claims may damage our reputation and, if insurance proves inadequate, the product liability claims may harm our results of operations. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure when we test our product candidates in human clinical trials, and we will face an even greater risk if we sell our product candidates commercially. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we will incur substantial liabilities, our reputation may be harmed and we may be unable to commercialize our product candidates. We have product liability insurance that covers the conduct of our clinical trials. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if marketing approval is obtained for any of our product candidates. However, insurance coverage is increasingly expensive. We may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost and we may not be able to obtain insurance coverage that will be adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise. Any claims relating to our improper handling, storage or disposal of biological, hazardous and radioactive materials could be time consuming and costly. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including chemicals that cause cancer, volatile solvents, radioactive materials and biological materials that have the potential to transmit disease. Our operations also produce hazardous waste products. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and waste products. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations or with the conditions attached 25 Table of Contents to our operating licenses, the licenses could be revoked, and we could be subjected to criminal sanctions and substantial financial liability or be required to suspend or modify our operations. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with legally prescribed standards, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for damages or penalized with fines in an amount exceeding our resources. In addition, we may have to incur significant costs to comply with future environmental laws and regulations. We do not currently have a pollution and remediation insurance policy. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Directors, executive officers, principal stockholders and affiliated entities beneficially own or control a significant majority of our outstanding voting common stock and together control our activities. Our directors, executive officers, principal stockholders and affiliated entities currently beneficially own or control a significant majority of our outstanding securities. Two of our directors and their affiliated entities own collectively approximately 30% of our outstanding shares of common stock. These stockholders, if they determine to vote in the same manner, would control the outcome of any matter requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions or terms of any liquidation. Future sales of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline. Our principal stockholders and affiliated entities hold a substantial number of shares of our common stock that they are able to sell in the public market. In addition, they currently own outstanding warrants exercisable for additional shares of our common stock. The exercise of these warrants or the sale by our current stockholders of a substantial number of shares, or the expectation that such exercises or sales may occur, could significantly reduce the market price of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law may make it more difficult to acquire us. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions: • allow the authorized number of directors to be changed only by resolution of our Board of Directors; • require that stockholder actions must be effected at a duly called stockholder meeting and prohibit stockholder action by written consent; • establish advance notice requirements for nominations to our Board of Directors or for proposals that can be acted on at stockholder meetings; • authorize our Board of Directors to issue blank check preferred stock to increase the number of outstanding shares; and • limit who may call stockholder meetings. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit large stockholders from consummating a merger with, or acquisition of us. These provisions may prevent a merger or acquisition that would be attractive to stockholders and could limit the price that investors would be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. 26 Table of Contents We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and we do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. We have paid no cash dividends on any of our common stock to date, and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. In addition, the terms of our growth capital loan preclude us from paying any cash dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of potential gain for the foreseeable future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 