 Risk Factors emerge from time-to-time, that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. Furthermore, the Company undertakes no obligation to update, amend or clarify forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 4 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business. General. Wolverine World Wide, Inc. (the “Company”) is a leading designer, manufacturer and marketer of a broad range of quality casual shoes, rugged outdoor and work footwear. The Company, a Delaware corporation, is the successor of a Michigan corporation of the same name, originally organized in 1906, which in turn was the successor of a footwear business established in Grand Rapids, Michigan in 1883. Approximately 46.6 million pairs of the Company’s branded footwear were sold during fiscal 2008, making the Company a global leader among footwear companies in the marketing of branded casual, work and outdoor footwear. The Company’s products generally feature contemporary styling with proprietary technologies designed to provide maximum comfort and performance. The products are marketed throughout the world under widely recognized brand names, including Bates®, Cat® Footwear, Chaco®, Cushe®, Harley-Davidson® Footwear, Hush Puppies®, HyTest®, Merrell®, Patagonia® Footwear, Sebago® and Wolverine®. The Company believes that its primary competitive strengths are its well-recognized brand names, broad range of comfortable footwear, patented and proprietary designs and comfort technologies, numerous distribution channels and diversified manufacturing and sourcing base. Cat® is a registered trademark of Caterpillar Inc., Harley-Davidson® is a registered trademark of H-D Michigan, Inc. and Patagonia® is a registered trademark of Patagonia, Inc. The Company’s footwear is sold under a variety of brand names designed to appeal to most consumers of casual, work and outdoor footwear at numerous price points. The Company’s footwear products are organized under four operating units: (i) the Wolverine Footwear Group, consisting of the Bates®, HyTest® and Wolverine® boots and shoes, and Wolverine® brand apparel, (ii) the Outdoor Group, consisting of Merrell®, Patagonia® and Chaco® footwear, and Merrell® brand apparel, (iii) the Heritage Brands Group, consisting of Cat® footwear, Harley-Davidson® footwear and Sebago® footwear, and (iv) The Hush Puppies Company, consisting of Hush Puppies® footwear and Cushe® footwear. The Company also licenses its brands for use on non-footwear products, including apparel, eyewear, watches, socks, gloves, handbags and plush toys. The Company’s Global Operations Group is responsible for manufacturing, sourcing, distribution and customer support for the various Company brands. The Company’s footwear is distributed domestically through Company-owned retail stores, to governments and municipalities and to numerous accounts, including department stores, footwear chains, catalogs, specialty retailers, mass merchants and Internet retailers. Many of the retailers to which Wolverine distributes operate multiple storefront locations. The Company’s products are marketed worldwide in approximately 180 countries and territories through Company-owned wholesale operations, licensees and distributors. The Company, through its Wolverine Leathers Division, operates a pigskin leather business supplying pigskin leather for the shoe and leather goods industries. A significant portion of the Wolverine Leathers Division’s pigskin leather is used in the footwear marketed by the Company, and is also sold to Company licensees and other domestic and foreign manufacturers of footwear. The Company currently operates a tanning facility to support the Wolverine Leathers Division business. The Company has announced that it will likely close its tanning facility and outsource leather processing in 2009. In addition, Wolverine Procurement, Inc., a Company-owned subsidiary, performs skinning operations and purchases raw pigskins, which it then cures and sells to outside customers for processing into pigskin leather products. 5 Table of Contents For financial information regarding the Company, see the consolidated financial statements of the Company and the notes thereto, which are attached as Appendix A to this Form 10-K. The Company has one reportable segment, Branded Footwear, Apparel, and Licensing. The Branded Footwear, Apparel, and Licensing segment is engaged in manufacturing, sourcing, licensing, marketing and distributing branded footwear and apparel, including casual shoes and apparel, dress shoes, boots, uniform shoes, work shoes and rugged outdoor footwear and apparel. The Company’s Other Business units consist of its retail stores, leathers and pigskin procurement operations. Financial information regarding the Company’s business segments and financial information about geographic areas is found in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements of the Company that are attached as Appendix A to this Form 10-K. Branded Footwear, Apparel and Licensing. The Company sources and markets a broad range of footwear styles, including shoes, boots and sandals under many recognizable brand names, including Bates®, Cat®, Chaco®, Cushe ®, Harley-Davidson®, Hush Puppies®, HyTest®, Merrell®, Patagonia®, Sebago® and Wolverine®. The Company combines quality materials and skilled workmanship from around the world to produce footwear according to its specifications at both Company-owned and third-party manufacturing facilities. The Company also markets Merrell®, Sebago®, and Wolverine® brand apparel and licenses its brands for use on non-footwear products, including apparel, eyewear, watches, socks, handbags, gloves and plush toys. Current significant licensing programs include Hush Puppies® apparel, eyewear, watches, socks, handbags and plush toys, and Wolverine® brand gloves, eyewear, socks and headwear. The Company’s four branded footwear, apparel, and licensing operating units are described below. 1. The Outdoor Group. The Outdoor Group consists of Merrell® Footwear, Patagonia® Footwear, Chaco® Footwear and Merrell® Apparel. Outdoor Group products include performance outdoor and hiking footwear, casual and after-sport footwear and performance and casual Merrell® Apparel. Merrell® Footwear. The Merrell® Footwear line consists primarily of running, technical hiking, rugged outdoor and outdoor-inspired casual footwear designed for backpacking, day hiking and everyday use. The Merrell® Footwear line also includes the “After-Sport” category, incorporating Merrell® Footwear’s technical hiking and outdoor expertise with Wolverine Performance Leathers™ and other technical materials to create footwear with unique styling, performance and comfort features. Merrell® Footwear products are sold primarily through outdoor specialty retailers, department stores and catalogs. Merrell® Footwear is marketed in approximately 150 countries and territories worldwide. Merrell® Apparel. The Merrell® Apparel line consists primarily of technical outdoor and outdoor-inspired casual apparel and performance socks. In addition to Merrell® Apparel, the Outdoor Group markets Merrell® packs, bags and luggage. Patagonia® Footwear. The Company entered into a license agreement providing the Company with exclusive worldwide rights to manufacture, market, distribute and sell footwear under the Patagonia®, Water Girl® and other trademarks. The Patagonia® Footwear line focuses primarily on casual and outdoor performance footwear. Chaco® Footwear and ULU® Footwear. The Company acquired the Chaco® and ULU® Footwear businesses in January 2009. The Chaco® line is focused primarily on performance sandals and ULU® is focused primarily on fashionable, performance winter boots. 6 Table of Contents 2. Wolverine Footwear Group. The Wolverine Footwear Group encompasses footwear primarily under the Wolverine®, Bates®, and HyTest® brands and markets footwear designed with performance and comfort features to serve a variety of work, outdoor and lifestyle functions. The Wolverine Footwear Group also markets Wolverine® brand apparel. Wolverine® Work and Industrial Footwear. The Wolverine® brand has built its reputation by offering high quality work boots and shoes that incorporate innovative technologies to deliver comfort and durability. The Wolverine® brand, which has been in existence for 126 years, markets work and outdoor footwear in three categories: (i) work and industrial; (ii) outdoor sport; and (iii) rugged casual. The development of DuraShocks® technology and MultiShox® technology has allowed the Wolverine® brand to introduce a broad line of work footwear with a focus on comfort. The Wolverine Fusion®, DuraShocks SR™ and Wolverine Compressor® technologies represent the Company’s tradition of comfortable work and industrial footwear, a tradition that is continued and enhanced with the development of the MultiShox® Individual Comfort System and the Contour Welt™ product line. The Wolverine® work product line features work boots and shoes, including steel toe boots and shoes, targeting industrial and farm workers. The Wolverine® rugged casual and outdoor sport product lines incorporate DuraShocks® technology and other comfort features into products designed for casual and outdoor sport use. The rugged casual line targets active lifestyles and includes trail shoes, rugged casuals and outdoor sandals. The outdoor sport line is designed to meet the demands of hunters, fishermen and other active outdoor sports enthusiasts. Warmth, waterproofing and comfort are achieved through the use of Gore-Tex® (a registered trademark of W.L. Gore & Associates, Inc.) and Thinsulate® (a registered trademark of Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company) brand fabrics, the Company’s performance leathers and patented DuraShocks® technologies. Wolverine® Apparel and Licensing. The Wolverine Footwear Group markets a line of work and rugged casual Wolverine® brand apparel. In addition, the Wolverine® brand is licensed for use on eyewear, headwear, gloves and socks. Bates® Uniform Footwear. The Bates Uniform Footwear Division is an industry leader in supplying footwear to military and civilian uniform users. The Bates Uniform Footwear Division utilizes DuraShocks®, DuraShocks SR™, CoolTech® and other proprietary comfort technologies in the design of its military-style boots and oxfords, including the Bates®, Enforcer Series® and Special Ops™ footwear lines. The Bates Uniform Footwear Division contracts with the U.S. Department of Defense and the militaries of several foreign countries to supply military footwear. Civilian uniform uses include police, security, postal, restaurant and other industrial occupations. Bates Uniform Footwear Division’s products are also distributed through specialty retailers and catalogs. HyTest® Safety Footwear. The HyTest® product line consists primarily of high-quality work boots and shoes designed to protect industrial workers from foot injuries. HyTest® footwear incorporates various specialty safety features into its product lines, including steel toe, composite toe, metatarsal guards, electrical hazard, static dissipating and conductive footwear to protect against hazards of the workplace. In addition, HyTest® brand footwear incorporates features, such as FootRests® comfort technology, to provide comfort together with safety for working men and women. HyTest® footwear is distributed primarily through a network of independently-owned Shoemobile® mobile truck retail outlets providing direct sales of the Company’s occupational and work footwear brands to workers at industrial facilities and also through direct sales arrangements with large industrial customers. 7 Table of Contents 3. The Heritage Brands Group. The Heritage Brands Group consists of Caterpillar® Footwear, Harley-Davidson® Footwear and the Sebago® product line. Caterpillar® Footwear. Pursuant to a license arrangement with Caterpillar Inc., the Company has exclusive worldwide rights to manufacture, market and distribute footwear under the Caterpillar®, Cat & Design®, Walking Machines® and other trademarks. The Company believes the association with Cat® equipment enhances the reputation of its footwear for quality, ruggedness and durability. Cat® brand footwear products include work boots and shoes, sport boots, rugged casuals and lifestyle footwear, including lines of work and casual footwear featuring iTechnology™ and Hidden Tracks® comfort features. In addition, the Company also manufactures and markets Cat® Marine Power® footwear, designed for industrial and recreational marine uses. Cat® footwear products target work and industrial users and active lifestyle users. Cat® footwear is marketed in approximately 140 countries and territories worldwide. Cat®, Caterpillar®, Cat & Design®, Walking Machines® and Marine Power® are registered trademarks of Caterpillar Inc. Harley-Davidson® Footwear. Pursuant to a license arrangement with the Harley-Davidson Motor Company, the Company has the exclusive right to manufacture, market, distribute and sell Harley-Davidson® branded footwear throughout the world. Harley-Davidson® branded footwear products include motorcycle, casual, fashion, work and western footwear for men, women and children. Harley-Davidson® footwear is sold globally through a network of independent Harley-Davidson® dealerships, as well as through department stores and specialty retailers. Harley-Davidson® is a registered trademark of H-D Michigan, Inc. Sebago®. The Sebago® product line consists primarily of performance nautical and American-inspired casual footwear for men and women, such as boat shoes and handsewn loafers, that have been manufactured and distributed since 1946. Highly recognized Sebago® line extensions include Sebago Docksides®, Sebago Drysides™, Sebago Campsides™ and Athletic Marine. The Sebago® product line is marketed in approximately 115 countries and territories worldwide. The Sebago® manufacturing and design tradition of quality componentry, durability, comfort and “Americana” heritage is further supported by targeted distribution to better-grade independent, marine and department store retailers throughout the world. The Company expects to launch a classic and marine Sebago® apparel line in 2009. 8 Table of Contents 4. The Hush Puppies Company. Hush Puppies. Since 1958, the Hush Puppies® brand has been a leader in the casual footwear market. The brand offers shoes and boots for men, women and children, and is marketed in approximately 140 countries and territories. The modern styling is complemented by a variety of comfort features and proprietary technologies that have earned the brand its reputation for comfort. In addition, the Hush Puppies® brand is licensed for use on apparel, eyewear, handbags, socks, watches and plush toys. Cushe. The Company acquired the Cushe® Footwear business in January 2009. The Cushe business focuses on relaxed, design-led footwear for active men and women. Other Businesses. In addition to manufacturing, sourcing, marketing and distributing the Company’s footwear and apparel products as reported in the Branded Footwear, Apparel, and Licensing segment, the Company also (i) operates 90 North American and 2 U.K.-based retail footwear stores, (ii) operates a performance leathers business through its Wolverine Leathers Division, and (iii) purchases and cures raw pigskins for sale to various customers through its wholly-owned subsidiary Wolverine Procurement, Inc. 1. Wolverine Retail. The Company operates 90 North American and 2 U.K.-based retail shoe stores as of February 2009. These stores are operated under the Hush Puppies®, Hush Puppies and FamilySM, Track’N Trail®, Rockford Footwear Depot® and Merrell® names. Both the Rockford Footwear Depot® and Track’N Trail® retail formats carry a large selection of Company-branded footwear, featuring such brands as Wolverine®, Merrell®, Hush Puppies®, Cat®, Patagonia®, Sebago® and Harley-Davidson®. The Company also operates direct-to-customer retail websites, including www.upfootgear.com, www.trackandtrail.com, www.catfootwear.com, www.hushpuppies.com, www.sebago.com and www.merrell.com. 2. The Wolverine Leathers Division. The Wolverine Leathers Division produces and markets pigskin leathers primarily for use in the footwear industry. The Company believes pigskin leathers offer superior performance and advantages over cowhide leathers. The Company’s waterproof and stain resistant leathers are featured in some of the Company’s domestic footwear lines and many products offered by the Company’s international licensees and distributors. Wolverine performance leathers are also featured in certain outside brands of athletic and outdoor footwear. 3. Wolverine Procurement, Inc. Wolverine Procurement, Inc. performs skinning operations and purchases raw pigskins from third parties, which it cures and sells to the Wolverine Leathers Division and to outside customers for processing into pigskin leather products. Marketing. The Company’s overall marketing strategy is to develop brand-specific plans and related promotional materials for U.S. and international markets to foster a differentiated and consistent image for each of the Company’s core brands. Each brand group has its own marketing personnel who develop the marketing strategy for products within that group. Marketing campaigns and strategies vary by brand and may target accounts and/or end users as they strive to increase overall brand awareness for the Company’s branded products. The Company’s advertisements typically emphasize fashion, comfort, quality, durability, functionality and other performance and lifestyle aspects of the Company’s products. Components of the brand-specific plans vary and may include print, radio and television advertising, event sponsorships, in-store point of purchase displays, promotional materials, and sales and technical assistance. 9 Table of Contents The Company’s brand groups provide its international licensees and distributors with creative direction and materials to convey consistent messages and brand images. Examples of marketing assistance that may be provided by the Company to its licensees and distributors are (i) direction on the categories of footwear to be promoted, (ii) photography and layouts, (iii) broadcast advertising, including commercials and film footage, (iv) point-of-purchase presentation specifications, blueprints and packaging, (v) sales materials and (vi) consulting on retail store layout and design. The Company believes its brand names provide a competitive advantage and the Company makes significant expenditures on marketing and promotion to support the position of its products and enhance brand awareness. Domestic Sales and Distribution. The Company uses a wide variety of domestic distribution channels to distribute its branded footwear products. To meet the diverse needs of its broad customer base, the Company uses the following distribution strategies: • Traditional wholesale distribution is used to service department stores, large footwear chains, specialty retailers, catalogs, independent retailers and uniform outlets. A dedicated sales force and customer service team, advertising and point of purchase support and in-stock inventories are used to service these accounts. • Volume direct programs provide footwear at competitive prices with limited marketing support. These programs service major retail, mail order, mass merchant and government customers. • A network of independent Shoemobile® distribution outlets is used to distribute the Company’s work and occupational footwear at industrial facilities. • The Company solicits all branches of the United States military and enters bids for contracts to supply specific footwear products. Such contracts typically contain future purchase options that are not required to be exercised. In addition to its wholesale activities, the Company also operates a retail operation as described above. The Company continues to develop various programs, both independently and with its retail customers, for the distribution of its products. A broad distribution base insulates the Company from dependence on any one customer. No customer of the Company accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s revenue in fiscal 2008. The Company experiences moderate fluctuations in sales volume during the year as reflected in quarterly revenue (and taking into consideration the 16 weeks or 17 weeks included in the fourth accounting period versus the 12 weeks included in the first three accounting periods). The Company also experiences some fluctuation in its levels of working capital, typically including an increase in working capital requirements near the end of the third quarter. The Company provides working capital for such fluctuations through internal financing and through a revolving credit agreement. The Company expects current seasonal sales patterns to continue in future years. 10 Table of Contents International Operations and Global Licensing. The Company records revenue from foreign sources through a combination of (i) sales of branded footwear products generated from the Company’s owned operations in Canada, the United Kingdom, Austria, Finland, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland and from sales to international distributors for certain markets and businesses and (ii) from royalty income through a network of third-party licensees and distributors. The Company’s owned operations are located in markets where the Company believes it can gain a strategic advantage by more directly controlling the sale into retail accounts. The Company derives royalty income from sales of products (primarily Company footwear) bearing the Hush Puppies®, Wolverine®, Bates®, Merrell®, Sebago® and other trademarks by independent distributors and licensees. The Company also derives royalty income from sales of footwear bearing the Cat® and Harley-Davidson® trademarks through foreign distributors. License and distribution arrangements enable the Company to develop sales in international markets without the capital commitment required to maintain related foreign operations, employees, inventories or localized marketing programs. The Company continues to develop its network of licensees and distributors to market its footwear brands. The Company assists in designing products that are appropriate to each foreign market but are consistent with the global brand position. Independent licensees and distributors purchase goods from either the Company or authorized third-party manufacturers pursuant to distribution agreements or manufacture branded products consistent with Company standards pursuant to license agreements. Distributors and licensees are responsible for independently marketing and distributing Company branded products in their respective territories, with product and market support provided by the Company. Manufacturing and Sourcing. The Company controls the sourcing and/or manufacture of approximately 81% of the pairs of footwear marketed globally under the Company’s brand names. The balance is controlled directly by the Company’s licensees. Of the pairs purchased by the Company, approximately 93% are purchased or sourced from third parties, with the remainder produced at Company-operated facilities. The Company sources a majority of its footwear from a variety of foreign manufacturing facilities in the Asia-Pacific region, South America and India. The Company maintains technical offices in the Asia-Pacific region to facilitate the sourcing and importation of quality footwear. The Company has established guidelines for each of its third-party manufacturers in order to monitor product quality, labor practices and financial viability. In addition, the Company has adopted “Engagement Criteria for Partners & Sources” to require that its domestic and foreign manufacturers, licensees and distributors use ethical business standards, comply with all applicable health and safety laws and regulations, are committed to environmentally safe practices, treat employees fairly with respect to wages, benefits and working conditions, and do not use child or prison labor. Footwear produced by the Company is manufactured at Company-operated facilities located in Michigan, Arkansas, and the Dominican Republic. The Company’s factories each have the flexibility to produce a variety of footwear, which departs from the industry’s historical practice of dedicating a given facility to production of specific footwear products. This flexibility allows the Company to quickly respond to changes in market preference and demand. The Company currently produces military footwear as well as work, casual and dress casual footwear in its owned facilities. For some of the Company-produced footwear, a “twin plant” concept is utilized whereby a majority of the labor intensive cutting and fitting construction of the “upper” portion of shoes and boots is performed at the Company’s facilities in the Dominican Republic and Arkansas, and the technology intensive construction, or “bottoming,” is performed primarily at the Company’s facilities in Michigan and the Dominican Republic. 11 Table of Contents The Company’s owned manufacturing operations allow the Company to (i) reduce its production lead time, enabling it to quickly respond to market demand and reduce inventory risk, (ii) lower freight and shipping costs, and (iii) closely monitor product quality. The Company’s foreign manufacturing strategy allows the Company to (a) benefit from lower manufacturing costs and state-of-the-art manufacturing facilities, (b) source the highest quality raw materials from around the world, and (c) avoid additional capital expenditures necessary for owned factories and equipment. The Company believes that its overall global manufacturing strategy gives the Company the flexibility to properly balance the need for timely shipments, high quality products and competitive pricing. The Company owns and operates a pigskin tannery through its Wolverine Leathers Division. The Company and its licensees receive a majority of their pigskin leather requirements from this tannery. During 2009, the Company will evaluate strategic alternatives for the Company-owned leather business. The Company’s management currently expects that this evaluation will result in the closure of the Company’s pigskin tannery and outsourcing of the Company’s pigskin leather processing. The Company’s principal required raw material is quality leather, which it purchases from a select group of domestic and offshore suppliers, including the Company’s tannery. The global availability of common upper materials and specialty leathers eliminates any reliance by the Company upon a sole supplier. The Company currently purchases the vast majority of the raw pigskins used in a significant portion of its Wolverine Leathers Business from one domestic source. This source has been a reliable and consistent supplier for over 30 years. Alternative sources of raw pigskin are available; however the price, processing and/or product characteristics are less advantageous to the Company. The Company purchases all of its other raw materials and component parts from a variety of sources, none of which is believed by the Company to be a dominant supplier. The Company is subject to the normal risks of doing business abroad due to its international operations, including the risk of expropriation, acts of war or terrorism, political disturbances and similar events, the imposition of trade barriers, quotas, tariffs and duties, loss of most favored nation trading status and currency and exchange rate fluctuations. With respect to international sourcing activities, management believes that over a period of time, it could arrange adequate alternative sources of supply for the products currently obtained from its foreign suppliers. A sustained disruption of such sources of supply could have an adverse impact on the Company’s operations and financial condition. Trademarks, Licenses and Patents. The Company holds a significant portfolio of registered and common law trademarks that identify its branded footwear and apparel products. The owned trademarks that are most widely used by the Company include Hush Puppies®, Wolverine®, Bates®, Cushe®, Chaco®, Soft Style®, Wolverine Fusion®, DuraShocks®, MultiShox®, Wolverine Compressor®, Hidden Tracks®, iTechnologyTM, Bounce®, Comfort Curve®, HyTest®, Merrell®, Continuum®, Sebago®, Q-Form® and Track ‘N Trail®. Pigskin leather marketed by the Company’s Wolverine Leathers Division is sold under the trademarks Wolverine Leathers & Design®, Wolverine Warrior Leather®, Weather Tight® and All Season Weather Leathers™. As of the date of this Annual Report, the Company has obtained license rights to manufacture, market and distribute footwear throughout the world under the Cat®, Harley-Davidson® and Patagonia® trademarks pursuant to license arrangements with the respective trademark owners. The Cat®, Harley-Davidson®, and Patagonia® licenses extend for five or more years and are subject to early termination for breach. 12 Table of Contents The Company believes that its products are identified by consumers by its trademarks and that its trademarks are valuable assets. The Company is not aware of any infringing uses or any prior claims of ownership of its trademarks that could materially affect its current business. It is the policy of the Company to pursue registration of its primary trademarks whenever practicable and to vigorously defend its trademarks against infringement or other threats. The Company also holds many design and utility patents, copyrights and various other proprietary rights. The Company vigorously protects its proprietary rights under applicable laws. Order Backlog. At February 21, 2009, the Company had an order backlog of approximately $357 million compared to an order backlog of approximately $389 million at February 16, 2008, determined on a basis consistent with the current year. Substantially all of the backlog relates to demand for products expected to be shipped in 2009. Orders in the backlog are subject to cancellation by customers and to changes in planned customer demand or at-once orders. The backlog at a particular time is affected by a number of factors, including seasonality, retail conditions, expected customer demand, product availability and the schedule for the manufacture and shipment of products. Accordingly, a comparison of backlog from period to period is not necessarily meaningful and may not be indicative of eventual actual shipments. Competition. The Company’s footwear lines are manufactured and marketed in a highly competitive environment. The Company competes with numerous domestic and foreign marketers, manufacturers and importers of footwear, some of which are larger and have greater resources than the Company. The Company’s major competitors for its brands of footwear are located in the United States and Europe. The Company has at least thirty major competitors in connection with the sale of its casual, work and outdoor footwear. Product performance and quality, including technological improvements, product identity, competitive pricing and ability to control costs, and the ability to adapt to style changes are all important elements of competition in the footwear markets served by the Company. The footwear industry in general is subject to changes in consumer preferences. The Company strives to maintain its competitive position through promotion of brand awareness, manufacturing and sourcing efficiencies, and the style, comfort and value of its products. Future sales by the Company will be affected by its continued ability to sell its products at competitive prices and to meet shifts in consumer preferences. Because of the lack of reliable published statistics, the Company is unable to state with certainty its position in the footwear industry. Market shares in the non-athletic footwear industry are highly fragmented and no one company has a dominant market position. Research and Development. In addition to normal and recurring product development, design and styling activities, the Company engages in research and development related to the development of new production techniques and to improving the function, performance, reliability and quality of its branded footwear and other products. The Company’s continuing relationship with the Biomechanics Evaluation Laboratory at Michigan State University, for example, has helped validate and refine specific biomechanical design concepts, such as Bounce®, DuraShocks® and Hidden Tracks® comfort technologies, that have been incorporated in the Company’s footwear. While the Company expects to continue to be a leading developer of footwear innovations, research and development costs do not represent a material portion of operating expenses. 13 Table of Contents Environmental Matters. Compliance with federal, state and local provisions which have been enacted or adopted regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment have not had, nor are they expected to have, any material effect on the capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position of the Company and its subsidiaries. The Company uses and generates certain substances and wastes that are regulated or may be deemed hazardous under certain federal, state and local regulations with respect to the environment. The Company from time to time works with federal, state and local agencies to resolve cleanup issues at various waste sites and other regulatory issues. Employees. As of January 3, 2009, the Company had approximately 4,578 domestic and foreign production, office and sales employees. Approximately 528 employees were covered by four union contracts expiring at various dates through January 21, 2010. The Company presently considers its employee relations to be good. Available Information. Information about the Company, including the Company’s Code of Conduct & Compliance, Corporate Governance Guidelines, Director Independence Standards, Accounting and Finance Code of Ethics, Audit Committee Charter, Compensation Committee Charter, and Governance Committee Charter, is available at its website, www.wolverineworldwide.com. Printed copies of the documents listed above are available, without charge, by writing to the Company at 9341 Courtland Drive, N.E., Rockford, Michigan 49351, Attention: General Counsel. The Company also makes available on or through its website, free of charge, the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports (along with certain other Company filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”)) as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such material with, or furnishing it to, the SEC. These materials are also accessible on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. Item 1A. Risk Factors. The Company’s sales, operating results and financial condition are dependant on general economic conditions and other factors affecting consumer spending. The success of the Company’s operations depends to a significant extent upon a number of factors affecting disposable consumer income and consumer spending patterns, both nationally and internationally, including general economic conditions and factors such as employment, business conditions, interest rates and taxation. Uncertainty about current and future global economic conditions may cause the Company’s customers to defer or cancel purchases of the Company’s products. In addition, recessionary economic cycles, higher interest borrowing rates, restricted credit availability, inflation, higher levels of unemployment and consumer debt, higher tax rates or other economic factors may cause consumer confidence to decline, which could adversely affect the demand for the Company’s products. Consumer spending patterns may be affected by changes in the amount or severity of inclement weather, the acceptability of U.S. brands in international markets and the growth or decline of global footwear markets. If demand for the Company’s products declines, the Company’s sales and profit margins may also decline. 14 Table of Contents General economic conditions and regulatory factors such as those listed above, as well as increased costs of fuel, labor, commodities, insurance and healthcare, may increase the Company’s cost of sales and operating expenses, which may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s business will be adversely affected if the Company is not able to maintain its competitive position in the footwear industry, or compete effectively in retail and apparel markets. The Company competes with numerous other marketers of footwear, some of which are larger and have greater resources than the Company. Product performance and quality, including technological improvements, product identity, competitive pricing and the ability to adapt to style changes are all important elements of competition in the footwear industry. The footwear industry in general is subject to changes in consumer preferences with respect to the popularity of particular designs and categories of footwear. The Company strives to maintain and improve its competitive position through promotion of brand awareness, sourcing efficiencies, and the style, comfort and value of its products. Future sales by the Company will be affected by its continued ability to sell its products at competitive prices and to meet shifts in consumer preferences. If the Company is unable to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in consumer spending, the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. In addition, the Company has only recently begun to expand into apparel and has increased its focus on competing in the retail sector. Many of its current or future competitors in these areas have greater experience, a more developed consumer and customer base in these sectors, lower prices, or greater financial, technical or marketing resources than the Company. The Company’s competitors in these sectors may be able to undertake more effective marketing campaigns; adopt more aggressive pricing policies; make more attractive offers to potential employees, distribution partners and manufacturers; or may be able to respond more quickly to changes in consumer preferences, than the Company. If the Company’s retail operations and expansion into apparel are not successful, the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. If the Company is not able to manage its inventories effectively, its costs could increase and/or its sales could decrease, each of which could adversely affect its operating results. The Company’s ability to manage its inventories properly is an important factor in its operations. Inventory shortages can impede the Company’s ability to meet at-once orders and can adversely affect the timing of shipments to customers and diminish brand loyalty. Conversely, excess inventories can result in increased interest costs as well as lower gross margins due to the necessity of lowering prices in order to liquidate excess inventories. If the Company is unable to effectively manage its inventory, its business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. The potential imposition of additional duties, quotas, tariffs and other trade restrictions could have an adverse impact on the Company’s sales and profitability. All of the Company’s products manufactured overseas and imported into the United States, the European Union and other countries are subject to customs duties collected by customs authorities. Customs information submitted by the Company is routinely subject to review by customs authorities. Additional U.S. or foreign customs duties, quotas, tariffs, anti-dumping duties, safeguard measures, cargo restrictions to prevent terrorism or other trade restrictions may be imposed on the importation of the Company’s products in the future. The imposition of such costs or restrictions in foreign countries where the Company operates, as well as in countries where the Company’s third party distributors and licensees operate, could result in increases in the cost of the Company’s products generally and could adversely affect the sales and profitability of the Company. 15 Table of Contents In October 2006, the European Union imposed anti-dumping duties on specific types of leather upper footwear originating in China and Vietnam and imported into member states of the European Union. In October 2008, the European Union initiated an expiry review of the duties to determine whether they should be extended beyond the original expiration date. The duties remain in effect while this review is conducted. Because the Company sources a substantial portion of its products from suppliers located in China and Vietnam, the imposition of these anti-dumping duties has negatively affected, and, for as long as such anti-dumping duties remain in effect, will continue to negatively affect, the Company’s sales and gross margin in the European Union. The Company’s business could be adversely affected by changes in currency values. Foreign currency fluctuation in valuations compared to the U.S. dollar, changes in monetary controls and valuations, and the relative value to the U.S. dollar affect the Company’s profitability. Changes in the relative values of currencies may significantly affect the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, because currency valuations fluctuate and the Company may employ hedging strategies over time, changes in currency exchange rates may impact the Company’s financial results positively or negatively in one period and not another, which may also make it difficult to compare the Company’s operating results from different periods. Currency exchange rate fluctuations may also adversely impact the third parties that manufacture the Company’s products by making their purchases of raw materials or other production costs more expensive and harder to finance and thereby raising prices for the Company, its distributors and licensees. For a more detailed discussion of risk relating to foreign currency fluctuation, see Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. A majority of the Company’s products are produced outside the United States where the Company is subject to the risks of international commerce. The Company currently sources most of its footwear from third-party manufacturers in foreign countries, predominantly China. As is common in the industry, the Company does not have long-term contracts with its third-party footwear suppliers. There can be no assurance, however, that the Company will not experience difficulties with such suppliers, including reduction in the availability of production capacity, failure to meet production deadlines or increases in manufacturing costs. The Company’s future results will depend partly on its ability to maintain positive working relationships with its third-party suppliers. Foreign manufacturing is subject to a number of risks, including work stoppages, transportation delays and interruptions, political instability, foreign currency fluctuations, changing economic conditions, expropriation, nationalization, the imposition of tariffs, import and export controls and other non-tariff barriers and changes in governmental policies. Various factors could significantly interfere with the Company’s ability to manufacture its products, including adverse developments in trade or political relations with China or other countries where the Company sources its products, or China shifting its manufacturing capacity away from footwear to other industries. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition and in particular on the Company’s ability to meet customer demands and produce its products in a cost-effective manner. 16 Table of Contents Currency exchange rate fluctuations in China could result in higher costs and decreased margins. The Company sources a substantial portion of its products from China. The official exchange rate for conversion of the Chinese yuan was pegged to the U.S. dollar from 1994 to 2005. In 2005, the exchange rate for the yuan was linked to a trade-weighted basket of foreign currencies of China’s primary trading partners, and permitted to float each day up to 0.5% in either direction from the previous day’s close. As a result, the value of the yuan may increase incrementally over time. Such increases could significantly increase production costs of products the Company sources from China. Additional revaluations in the yuan could impact the prices the Company pays its Chinese manufacturers if they adjust their selling prices accordingly. Increases in the Company’s production costs will decrease its gross margin unless the Company is able to increase prices to offset such increased costs. The Company depends on a limited number of suppliers for key production materials, and any disruption in the supply of such materials could interrupt product manufacturing and increase product costs. The Company’s ability to competitively price its products depends on the cost of footwear components, services, labor, equipment and raw materials, including leather and materials used in the production of outsoles. The cost of services and materials is subject to change based on availability and market conditions that are difficult to predict. Conditions such as diseases affecting the availability of leather affect the cost of the footwear marketed by the Company. In addition, the Company’s shipping costs are affected by fuel prices and numerous other factors, such as the possibility of service interruptions at shipping and receiving ports. The Company purchases raw pigskins for its leathers operations from a single domestic source pursuant to short-term contracts. Although this source has been a reliable and consistent supplier for over 30 years, there are no assurances that it will continue as a supplier. Failure of this source to continue to supply the Company with raw pigskin or to supply the Company with raw pigskin on less favorable terms could have a negative impact on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition, including increasing the Company’s cost of raw materials and as a result, decreasing the Company’s profits. If the Company’s customers significantly reduce their purchases from the Company or are not able to pay for its products in a timely manner, the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. The Company’s financial success is directly related to the willingness of its customers to continue to purchase its products. The Company does not typically have long-term contracts with its customers. Sales to the Company’s customers are generally on an order-by-order basis and are subject to rights of cancellation and rescheduling by the customers. Failure to fill customers’ orders in a timely manner could harm the Company’s relationships with its customers. Furthermore, if any of the Company’s major customers experience a significant downturn in its business, or fail to remain committed to the Company’s products or brands, then these customers may reduce or discontinue purchases from the Company, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company sells its products to wholesale customers and extends credit based on an evaluation of each customer’s financial condition, usually without requiring collateral. The financial difficulties of a customer could cause the Company to stop doing business with that customer or reduce its business with that customer. The Company’s inability to collect from its customers or a cessation or reduction of sales to certain customers because of credit concerns could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. 17 Table of Contents The recent trend toward consolidation in the retail industry could lead to customers seeking more favorable terms of purchase from the Company and could lead to a decrease in the number of stores that carry the Company’s products. In addition, changes in the channels of distribution, such as the growth of Internet commerce and the trend toward the sale of private label products by major retailers, could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company has been awarded a number of U.S. Department of Defense contracts that include future purchase options for Bates® footwear. Failure to exercise these purchase options by the Department of Defense or the failure of the Company to secure future U.S. Department of Defense contracts could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s financial success may be adversely affected by the current crisis in the credit markets. Difficulties in the mortgage and broader credit markets have led to a substantial decrease in the availability of credit. Commercial banks are demanding borrowers pay higher interest rates and agree to more onerous terms, and in other cases are refusing to provide financing. If these conditions continue or worsen, they could adversely impact the Company’s future results of operations and financial condition. If the Company’s third-party distributors, suppliers and retailers are not able to obtain financing on favorable terms, or at all, they may delay or cancel orders for the Company’s products, or fail to meet their obligations to the Company in a timely manner, either of which could adversely impact the Company’s sales, cash flow and operating results. In addition, the lack of available credit and/or the increased cost of credit may significantly impair the Company’s ability to obtain additional credit to finance future expansion plans, or refinance existing credit, on favorable terms, or at all. Market disruption may also contribute to extreme price and volume fluctuations in the stock market. This volatility could affect the market price of Company’s common stock for reasons unrelated to its operating performance. The extent and duration of any future continued weakening of the credit markets is unknown. In addition, there can be no assurance that any of the governmental or private sector initiatives designed to strengthen the condition of the credit markets will be successful. Unfavorable findings resulting from a government audit could subject the Company to a variety of penalties and sanctions, and could negatively impact the Company’s future revenues. The federal government has the right to audit the Company’s performance under its government contracts. If a government audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, the Company could be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or debarment from doing business with U.S. federal government agencies. The Company could also suffer serious harm to its reputation if the government alleges that the Company acted in an improper or illegal manner, whether or not these allegations have merit. If, as the result of an audit or for any other reason, the Company is suspended or barred from contracting with the federal government generally, or any specific agency, if the Company’s reputation or relationship with government agencies is impaired, or if the government otherwise ceases doing business with the Company or significantly decreases the amount of business it does with the Company, the Company’s revenue and profitability could decrease. 18 Table of Contents Failure of the Company’s international licensees and distributors to meet sales goals could have an adverse effect on the Company. The Company’s products are sold in many international markets through independent licensees or distributors. Failure by the Company’s licensees or distributors to meet planned annual sales goals could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition, and it may be difficult and costly to locate an acceptable substitute distributor or licensee. If a change in distributors becomes necessary, the Company may experience increased costs, as well as substantial disruption and a resulting loss of sales and brand equity in the market where such distributors operate. The Company’s reputation and competitive position could suffer if its third-party manufacturers, distributors, licensees and others violate laws or fail to conform to the Company’s ethical standards. The Company requires its independent contract manufacturers, distributors, licensees and others with which it does business to comply with the Company’s standards relating to working conditions and other matters. If a party with which the Company does business is found to have violated the Company’s standards, the Company could receive negative publicity that could damage its reputation and negatively affect the value of its brands. The Company’s business could be adversely affected by global political and economic uncertainty. Concerns regarding acts of terrorism, the war in the Middle East and subsequent events have created significant global economic and political uncertainties that may have material and adverse effects on consumer demand, foreign sourcing of footwear, shipping and transportation, product imports and exports and the sale of products in foreign markets, any of which could adversely affect the Company’s ability to manufacture, distribute and sell its products. The Company is subject to risks of doing business in developing countries and economically volatile areas. These risks include social, political and economic instability; nationalization of the Company’s assets and operations in a developing country by local government authorities; slower payment of invoices; and restrictions on the Company’s ability to repatriate foreign currency. In addition, commercial laws in these areas may not be well-developed or consistently administered, and new laws may be retroactively applied. Any of these risks could have an adverse impact on the Company’s prospects and results of operations in these areas. If the Company’s efforts to establish and protect its intellectual property are unsuccessful, the value of its brands could suffer. The Company invests significant resources to develop and protect its intellectual property, and believes that its trademarks and other intellectual property rights are important to its success. The Company’s ability to remain competitive is dependent upon its continued ability to secure and protect trademarks, patents and other intellectual property rights in the United States and internationally for all of its lines of business. The Company relies on a combination of trade secret, patent, copyright and other laws, license agreements and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect its intellectual property rights; however, some countries’ laws do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do U.S. laws. The Company’s business could be significantly harmed if it is not able to protect its intellectual property, or if a court found that the Company was infringing on other persons’ intellectual property rights. Any intellectual property lawsuits or threatened lawsuits in which the Company is involved, either as a plaintiff or as a defendant, could cost the Company a significant amount of time and money and distract management’s attention from operating the Company’s business. In addition, if the Company does not prevail on any intellectual property claims, the Company may have to change its manufacturing processes, products or trade names, any of which could reduce its profitability. In addition, some of the Company’s branded footwear operations are operated pursuant to licensing agreements with third-party trademark owners. These agreements are subject to early termination for breach. Expiration or early termination of any of these license agreements by the licensor could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenues and profits. 19 Table of Contents Loss of services of the Company’s key personnel could adversely affect its business. The Company is dependent on the efforts and abilities of its senior executive officers. While the Company believes that its senior management team has significant depth and that appropriate senior management succession plans are in place, the loss of one or more members of senior executive management or the failure to successfully implement succession planning could have an adverse effect on the Company, its results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s future success also depends on its ability to identify, attract and retain additional qualified personnel. Competition for such employees in the footwear industry is intense and failure to retain or attract key employees could adversely impact the Company. Inflationary and other pressures may lead to higher employment costs for the Company. General inflationary pressures, changes in employment laws and regulations, and other factors could increase the Company’s overall employment costs. The Company’s employment costs include costs relating to health care benefits and benefits under the Company’s retirement plans, including a U.S.-based defined benefit plan. The annual cost of benefits can vary significantly depending on a number of factors, including changes in the assumed or actual rate of return on plan assets, a change in the discount rate used to measure obligations, a change in method or timing of meeting funding obligations, and the rate of health care cost inflation. Increases in the Company’s overall employment costs could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Disruption to the Company’s information technology systems could adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company’s technology systems are critical to the operations of its business. Any interruption, impairment or loss of data integrity or malfunction of these systems could severely impact the Company’s business, including delays in product fulfillment and reduced efficiency in operations. In addition, costs and potential problems and interruptions associated with the implementation of new or upgraded systems or with maintenance or adequate support of existing systems could also disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations. The Company is subject to risks associated with its growth strategy and acquiring other businesses. The Company acquired Chaco® Footwear and Cushe® Footwear in 2009. The Company may make other strategic acquisitions in the future and cannot provide assurance that it will be able to successfully integrate the operations of Chaco, Cushe or other newly-acquired businesses into the Company’s operations. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including risks inherent in entering new markets in which the Company may not have prior experience; potential loss of significant customers or key personnel of the acquired business; managing geographically-remote operations; and potential diversion of management’s attention from other aspects of the Company’s business operations. Acquisitions may also result in incurrence of debt, dilutive issuances of the Company’s equity securities and write-offs of goodwill and substantial amortization expenses of other intangible assets. The failure to integrate newly acquired businesses or the inability to make suitable strategic acquisitions in the future could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. 20 Table of Contents The maintenance and growth of the Company’s business will be dependent upon the availability of adequate capital. The maintenance and growth of the Company’s business will depend on the availability of adequate capital, which in turn will depend in large part on cash flow generated by its business and the availability of equity and debt financing. The Company cannot provide assurance that its operations will generate positive cash flow or that it will be able to obtain equity or debt financing on acceptable terms or at all. Recent distress in the financial markets has had an adverse impact on the availability of credit and liquidity resources. The Company’s current revolving credit agreement expires in July 2010. The Company’s ability to replace the revolving credit agreement on similar terms may be limited if market and general economic conditions continue to deteriorate. As a result, the Company cannot provide assurance that it will be able to finance any expansion plans. Expanding the Company’s brands into new markets may be difficult and costly, and if the Company is unable to successfully continue such expansion, its brands may be adversely affected. As part of its growth strategy, the Company seeks to enhance the positioning of its brands and to extend its brands into complementary product categories and consumer groups, to expand geographically, and to improve operational performance. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to successfully implement any or all of these growth strategies, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company has invested substantial resources into these strategies and the failure of one or more of these strategies could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Counterfeiting of the Company’s brands can divert sales and damage its brand image. The Company periodically discovers products that are counterfeit reproductions of its products or that otherwise infringe on its intellectual property rights in its markets. The Company has not always been able to successfully stop production and sales of counterfeit products and infringement of the Company’s intellectual property rights. The actions the Company takes to establish and protect trademarks, patents and other intellectual property rights both inside and outside of the United States may not be adequate to prevent imitation of its products by others. If the Company is unsuccessful in challenging a party’s products on the basis of trademark or design or utility patent infringement, continued sales of these products could adversely affect the Company’s sales, devalue its brands and result in the shift of consumer preference away from the Company’s products. Changes in government regulation may increase the costs of compliance. The Company’s business is affected by changes in government and regulatory policies in the United States and on a global basis. New requirements relating to product safety and testing and new environmental requirements, as well as changes in interest rates, tax laws, duties, tariffs and quotas could have a negative impact on the Company’s ability to produce and market footwear at competitive prices. 21 Table of Contents The disruption, expense, and potential liability associated with existing and future litigation against the Company could have a material adverse effect on its reputation, financial condition and results of operations. The Company is a defendant from time to time in lawsuits and regulatory actions relating to its business. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and regulatory proceedings, the Company cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings. An unfavorable outcome could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, regardless of the outcome of any litigation or regulatory proceedings, such proceedings are expensive and may require that the Company devote substantial resources and executive time to defend the Company. Provisions of Delaware law and the Company’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws could prevent or delay a change in control or change in management that could be beneficial to the Company’s stockholders. Provisions of the Company’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control of the Company. These provisions are intended to protect stockholders’ interests by providing the Board of Directors a means to attempt to deny coercive takeover attempts or to negotiate with a potential acquirer in order to obtain more favorable terms. Such provisions include a board of directors that is classified so that only one-third of directors stand for election each year. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 