Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to substantial risks, including the risks described below. We have a history of significant losses, expect future losses and may never achieve or sustain profitability. We have incurred significant losses since our inception, and we expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. We incurred losses of $29,426,000 for the year ended December 31, 2006 and as of that date our accumulated deficit was $264,576,000. Our revenues and gross margins may not grow or even continue at their current levels and may decline even further. If our revenues do not rapidly increase, or if our expenses increase at a greater pace than our revenues, we will never become profitable. We have written down and may need to further write-down our inventory in the future if our sales levels do not match our expectations, or if selling prices decline more than we anticipate, which could adversely impact our operating results. We operate in an industry that is characterized by intense competition, supply shortages or oversupply, rapid technological change, unpredictable sales patterns, declining average selling prices and rapid product obsolescence, all of which make it more challenging to effectively manage our inventory. In addition, some of the components we require have long lead-times and we are required to order or build inventory well in advance of the time of our anticipated sales. Our inventory is stated at the lower of cost or market value. Determining market value of our inventory requires numerous judgments, including, but not limited to, judgments regarding average selling prices and sales volumes for future periods. We primarily utilize estimated selling prices for measuring any potential declines in market value below cost. When market value is determined to be below cost, we make appropriate allowances to reduce the value of inventories to net realized value. We may reduce the value of our inventory when we determine that inventory is slow moving, obsolete, excessive or if the selling price of the product is insufficient to cover product costs and selling expenses. In this regard, our inventory increased substantially in 2005 because sales were substantially less than our anticipated demand and we were required to make advance inventory purchase commitments for anticipated sales. Accordingly, we recorded a write down of inventory and non-cancelable purchase commitments of $424,000 and $2,050,000 for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. If our sales do not increase, the sales price of our products decrease or we are otherwise unable to control inventory levels consistent with actual demand, we may be required to write down additional inventory. Any such write-down would adversely affect our operating results in future periods. We may have insufficient capital to execute our business plan. On March 27, 2007, we closed a financing of $35,000,000 from Goldman, Sachs & Co., as further described in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Subsequent Events—Financing" (the "2007 Financing"). In the 2007 Financing, we delivered a $35,000,000 5% Convertible Note (the "2007 Convertible Note"), $17,500,000 of which was used to payoff the outstanding $10,000,000 10% Convertible Note due March 20, 2011 (the 12 "$10,000,000 2006 Convertible Note") and $7,500,000 9.5% Senior Secured Note due March 20, 2011(the $7,500,000 Senior Secured Note") issued to Goldman, Sachs & Co. in the financing completed in March 2006. Following this payoff, our net proceeds were $17,500,000. Notwithstanding the 2007 Financing, we may need additional capital to execute our business plan. If we are unsuccessful in securing additional cash, either through additional equity and/or debt financings or increased revenues, we may not be able to successfully execute our business plan. If we default under the 2007 Convertible Note delivered to Goldman, Sachs & Co., the principal and accrued interest would become due and payable which would substantially harm our cash position and business prospects. On March 27, 2007, we closed the 2007 Financing which included delivery of the 2007 Convertible Note in the principal amount of $35,000,000. The 2007 Convertible Note contains events of default that, if triggered, would require us to pay the principal and accrued interest under such note immediately (after the expiration of applicable cure periods). If an event of default occurs under the 2007 Convertible Note and the holder declares all outstanding principal and interest immediately due and payable, our cash position and business prospects would be substantially harmed. If we fail to achieve significant market penetration and customer acceptance of our cable products, our prospects would be substantially harmed. The market for broadband products in the cable industry is extremely competitive, subject to drastic technological changes, changes in capital expenditure budgets and highly fragmented. Our products in the Cable Solutions segment are new and relatively unknown; accordingly, we have not generated significant revenue in this segment. We have only recently shipped our first commercial orders for our 3GHz Spectrum Overlay solution to two systems of a top MSO. Other than these orders, we have only begun to install our 3GHz Spectrum Overlay products with customers in field trials. There can be no assurance that our installations of our cable products will be successful. As some of our cable products continue to be in a development stage, we may face challenges such as market resistance to new products, perceptions regarding customer support and quality control. We will generate significant sales only if we are able to penetrate the market and create market share in this industry. If we are unable to do so, our business would be harmed and our prospects significantly diminished. Our success will depend on future demand for additional bandwidth by MSOs and their customers and the willingness and ability of MSOs to substantially increase available bandwidth on their networks using our alternative technology solution. Because our cable products expand available bandwidth over existing infrastructure, demand for these products depends on demand for additional bandwidth by MSOs and their customers. The scope and timing of customer demand for additional bandwidth is uncertain and hard to predict. The factors influencing this demand include competitive offerings, applications availability, pricing models, costs, regulatory requirements and the success of initial roll-outs. For our cable products to be sold in significant quantities, MSOs also must be willing and able to substantially increase the available bandwidth on their networks. MSOs may not be willing or able to develop additional services and revenue streams to justify the deployment of our technology. If the future demand for bandwidth is insubstantial, is addressed by alternative technologies or does not develop in the near future, our prospects would be adversely affected. 13 We have not yet produced or deployed our cable products in high volumes. We have not yet produced our Spectrum Overlay solutions in high volumes and there may be challenges and unexpected delays, such as quality control issues, in our attempts to increase volume and lower production costs. Our long-term success depends on our ability to produce high quality products at a low cost and, in particular, to reduce the production cost of our cable products designed for residential use. Because we have not yet deployed our Spectrum Overlay solutions in high volumes, there is significant technology risk associated with any such future deployment. We cannot be sure that any such high volume deployment would be successful. Our future growth depends on market acceptance of several emerging broadband services, on the adoption of new broadband technologies and on several other broadband industry trends. Future demand for our broadband products will depend significantly on the growing market acceptance of several emerging broadband services, including digital video, video-on-demand, high definition television, very high-speed data services and voice-over-internet protocol ("VoIP") telephony. The effective delivery of these services will depend in part on a variety of new network architectures, such as fiber-to-the premises networks, video compression standards such as MPEG-4 and Microsoft's Windows Media 9, the greater use of protocols such as IP and the introduction of new consumer devices, such as advanced set-top boxes and digital video recorders. If adoption of these emerging services and/or technologies is not as widespread or as rapid as we expect, our net sales growth would be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, other technological, industry and regulatory trends will affect the growth of our business. These trends include the following: •convergence, or the desire of certain operators to provide a combination of video, voice and data services to consumers, also known as the "triple play;" •the use of digital video by businesses and governments; •the privatization of state owned telecommunication companies in other countries; •efforts by regulators and governments in the United States and abroad to encourage the adoption of broadband and digital technologies; and •the extent and nature of regulatory attitudes toward such issues as competition between operators, access by third parties to networks of other operators and new services such as VoIP. If, for instance, operators do not pursue the triple play as aggressively as we expect, our net sales growth would be materially and adversely affected. Similarly, if our expectations regarding these and other trends are not met, our net sales could be materially and adversely affected. We will need to develop distribution channels to market and sell our cable products. Our Spectrum Overlay solutions are in the early stages of commercialization. We currently have limited relationships with potential customers and distributors as well as limited sales staff. We will be successful only if we are able to develop distribution channels to market and sell our cable products in sufficient volumes. To develop such channels and market and sell our cable products, we need to grow our sales and marketing team, many of whom will be based in the United States. It may be difficult for us to hire and retain additional qualified personnel. Integrating new personnel, particularly United States based personnel, may be challenging from a culture and logistics perspective because most of our employees currently are based in Israel. 14 We currently have limited exposure to global business opportunities, and will not be able to take advantage of meaningful potential global demand for our products unless and until we are able to develop meaningful global distribution channels and strategies. Because of our long product development process and sales cycle, we may continue to incur substantial expenses without sufficient revenues that could cause our operating results to fluctuate. A customer's decision to purchase our products typically involves a significant technical evaluation, formal internal procedures associated with capital expenditure approvals and testing and acceptance of new systems that affect key operations. For these and other reasons, the sales cycle associated with our systems can be lengthy and subject to a number of significant risks, over which we have little or no control. Because of the growing sales cycle and the likelihood that we may rely on a small number of customers for our revenues, our operating results could be seriously harmed if such revenues do not materialize when anticipated, or at all. If telecommunications service providers and systems integrators do not promote and purchase our products, or if the telecommunications equipment market does not grow, our business will be seriously harmed. Telecommunications service providers continually evaluate alternative technologies, including digital subscriber line, fiber and cable. If service providers or systems integrators do not emphasize systems that include our products, choose to emphasize alternative technologies or promote systems of our competitors, our business would be seriously harmed. Market conditions remain difficult and capital spending plans are often constrained. It is likely that further industry restructuring and consolidation will take place. Companies that have historically not had a large presence in the broadband access equipment market have expanded their market share through mergers and acquisitions. The continued consolidation of our competitors could have a significant negative impact on us. Further, our competitors may bundle their products or incorporate functionality into existing products in a manner that discourages users from purchasing our products or which may require us to lower our selling prices resulting in lower gross margins. If the telecommunications market, and in particular the market for broadband access equipment, does not improve and grow, our business would be substantially harmed. If the communications, Internet and cable television industries do not grow and evolve in a manner favorable to our business strategy, our business may be seriously harmed. Our future success depends upon the growth of the communications industry, the cable television industry and, in particular, the Internet. These markets continue to evolve rapidly because of advances in technology and changes in customer demand. We cannot predict growth rates or future trends in technology development. It is possible that cable operators, telecommunications companies or other suppliers of broadband services will decide to adopt alternative architectures or technologies that are incompatible with our current or future products. If we are unable to design, develop, manufacture and sell products that incorporate or are compatible with these new architectures or technologies, our business will suffer. Also, decisions by customers to adopt new technologies or products are often delayed by extensive evaluation and qualifications processes and can result in delays of current products. In addition, the deregulation, privatization and economic globalization of the worldwide communications market, which resulted in increased competition and escalating demand for new technologies and services, may not continue in a manner favorable to us or our business strategies. In addition, the growth in demand for Internet services and the resulting need for high-speed or enhanced communications products may not continue at its current rate or at all. 15 The loss of one or more of our key customers would result in a loss of a significant amount of our revenues and adversely affect our business. A relatively small number of customers account for a large percentage of our revenues, as set forth in the table below: Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Customer A (related party) 84 % — — Customer B 13 % 1 % — Customer C 1 % 45 % 19 % Customer D — 8 % 19 % Customer E — 2 % 13 % Customer F — — 21 % We expect that we will continue to depend on a limited number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenues in future periods. The loss of a major customer could seriously harm our ability to sustain revenue levels, which would seriously harm our operating results. In this regard, sales to Customer A in the year ended December 31, 2006 accounted for the vast majority of our sales during that year. This customer was formed in 2006 and has a very limited history of operations, profitable or otherwise. If this customer is not successful in operating its business, or if sales to this customer are lower than our expectations, our business could be harmed. As sales to this customer were made by our Wireless Solutions segment, if this customer is not successful, the effect to us will be tempered given the refocus of our internal resources on our Cable Solutions segment. In this regard, we expect that a significant source of our revenues in 2007 and beyond will come from our Cable Solutions segment rather than our Wireless Solutions segment. We may not be able to successfully operate businesses that we may acquire, in a cost-effective and non-disruptive manner and realize anticipated benefits. We may explore investments in or acquisitions of other companies, products or technologies, including companies or technologies that are not complementary or related to our current solutions. We ultimately may be unsuccessful in operating and/or integrating an acquired company's personnel, operations, products and technologies into our business. These difficulties may disrupt our ongoing business, divert the time and attention of our management and employees and increase our expenses. Moreover, the anticipated benefits of any acquisition may not be realized or may not be realized in the time period we expect. Future acquisitions could result in dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses related to goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets and the incurrence of large and immediate write-offs, any of which could seriously harm our business. In addition, we could spend significant resources in searching for and investigating new business opportunities, and ultimately may be unsuccessful in acquiring new businesses. We depend on cable and telecommunications industry capital spending for our revenue and any decrease or delay in such spending would adversely affect our prospects. Demand for our products will depend on the size and timing of capital expenditures by MSOs and telecommunications service providers. These capital spending patterns are dependent upon factors including: •the availability of cash or financing; •budgetary issues; 16 •regulation and/or deregulation of the telecommunications industry; •competitive pressures; •alternative technologies; •overall demand for broadband services, particularly relatively new services such as VoIP; •industry standards; •the pattern of increasing consolidation in the industry; and •general consumer spending and overall economic conditions. If MSOs and telecommunications service providers do not make significant capital expenditures, our prospects would be adversely affected. Our participation or lack of participation in industry standards groups may adversely affect our business. We do not participate in the standards process of the Cable Television Laboratories, Inc., a cable industry consortium that establishes cable technology standards and administers compliance testing. In the future, we may determine to join or not join other standards or similar organizations. Our membership in these organizations could dilute our proprietary intellectual property rights in our products while our failure to participate in others could jeopardize acceptance of any of our products that do not meet industry standards. Product standardization, as may result from initiatives of MSOs and the wireless industry could adversely affect our prospects. Product standardization initiatives encouraged by MSOs and telecommunications companies may adversely affect revenues, gross margins and profits. In the past, standardization efforts by major MSOs have negatively impacted equipment vendors by leading to equipment obsolescence, commoditization and reduced margins. If our products do not comply with future standards, our prospects could be adversely affected. Since we reduced our workforce in 2005, our research and development efforts could continue to be harmed. We implemented a cost reduction program in 2005 by reducing our workforce, which resulted in a reduction of our workforce of approximately 16%. This reduction has had the largest effect on our research and development activities. Our ability to further develop and market our products may be limited if we have not accurately predicted the appropriate workforce requirements for our research and development efforts. In this regard, we are currently experiencing difficulty in hiring skilled research and development personnel in Israel. If this difficulty continues in the foreseeable future, our research and development efforts would be harmed. Competition may result in lower average selling prices, and we may be unable to reduce our costs at offsetting rates, which may impair our ability to achieve profitability. There has been significant price erosion in the broadband equipment field. We expect that continued price competition among broadband access equipment and systems suppliers will reduce our gross margins in the future. We anticipate that the average selling prices of broadband access systems will continue to decline as product technologies mature. We may be unable to reduce our manufacturing costs in response to declining average per unit selling prices. Our competitors may be able to achieve greater economies of scale and may be less vulnerable to the effects of price competition than we are. These declines in average selling prices will generally lead to declines in gross margins and profitability for these systems. If we are unable to reduce our costs to offset declines in average selling prices, we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability. 17 Our quarterly operating results fluctuate, which may cause our share price to decline. Our quarterly operating results have varied significantly in the past and are likely to vary significantly in the future. These variations result from a number of factors, including: •the uncertain timing and level of market acceptance for our systems and the uncertain timing and extent of rollouts of broadband access equipment and systems by the major service providers; •the fact that we often recognize a substantial proportion of our revenues in the last few weeks of each quarter; •the ability of our existing and potential direct customers to finance the deployment of broadband access equipment and systems; •the mix of products sold by us and the mix of sales channels through which they are sold; •reductions in pricing by us or our competitors; •global economic conditions; •the effectiveness of our system integrator customers in marketing and selling their network systems equipment; •changes in the prices or delays in deliveries of the components we purchase or license; and •any acquisitions or dispositions we may effect. A delay in the recognition of revenue, even from one customer, could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations for a given period. Also, because only a small portion of our expenses vary with our revenues, if revenue levels for a quarter fall below our expectations, we would not be able to timely adjust expenses accordingly, which would harm our operating results in that period. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. If our operating results fall below the expectations of investors in future periods, our share price would likely decline. Because we operate in international markets, we are exposed to additional risks which could cause our international sales to decline and our foreign operations to suffer. Our research and development facilities are located in Israel. Our reliance on international sales, operations and suppliers exposes us to foreign political and economic risks, which may impair our ability to generate revenues. These risks include: •economic, inflation and political instability; •terrorist acts, international conflicts and acts of war; •our international customers' ability to obtain financing to fund their deployments; •changes in regulatory requirements and licensing frequencies to service providers; •import or export licensing requirements and tariffs; •labor shortages or stoppages; •trade restrictions and tax policies; and •limited protection of intellectual property rights. Any of the foregoing difficulties of conducting business internationally could seriously harm our business. 18 Conditions in Israel affect our operations and could limit our ability to produce and sell our systems. Our research and development and final testing and assembly facilities, a majority of our employees and some of our contract manufacturers are located in Israel. Political, economic and military conditions in Israel directly affect our operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors and a state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Hostilities within Israel have dramatically escalated in recent years, which could disrupt our operations. In addition, the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and the current military and political presence of the United States or its allies in Iraq and Afghanistan could cause increasing instability in the Middle East and further disrupt relations between Israel and its Arab neighbors. We could be adversely affected by any major hostilities involving Israel, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners, a significant increase in inflation or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel. Moreover, several countries still restrict business with Israel and with Israeli companies. We could be adversely affected by restrictive laws or policies directed towards Israel or Israeli businesses. Our Chief Financial Officer, one of our directors and a majority of our employees are based in Israel, and many of them are currently obligated to perform annual reserve duty and are subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. We cannot assess the full impact of these requirements on our workforce or business if conditions should change, and we cannot predict the effect on us of any expansion or reduction of these obligations. Because substantially all of our revenues are generated in United States dollars while a portion of our expenses are incurred in New Israeli Shekels, our results of operations could be seriously harmed if the rate of inflation in Israel exceeds the rate of devaluation of the New Israeli Shekel against the United States dollar. Our functional currency is the United States dollar. We generate substantially all of our revenues in United States. dollars, but we incur a substantial portion of our expenses, principally salaries and related personnel expenses related to research and development, in New Israeli Shekels, or NIS. As a result, we are exposed to the risk that the rate of inflation in Israel will exceed the rate of devaluation of the NIS in relation to the dollar or that the timing of this devaluation lags behind inflation in Israel. Because we generally do not have contracts with our customers, our customers can discontinue purchases of our systems at any time, which could adversely affect future revenues and operating results. We generally sell our broadband access equipment and systems based on individual purchase orders. Our customers generally are not obligated by agreements to purchase our systems, and the agreements we have entered into, other than our agreement with ANI, do not obligate our customers to purchase a minimum number of systems. Our customers can generally cancel or reschedule orders on short notice and discontinue using our systems at any time. Further, having a successful field system trial does not necessarily mean that the customer will order large volumes of our systems. The reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from one or more of our customers could seriously harm our operating results. The effects of regulatory actions could impact spectrum allocation and frequencies worldwide and cause delays or otherwise negatively impact the growth and development of the broadband market, which would adversely affect our business. Countries worldwide are considering or are in the process of allocating frequencies for wireless applications, but not all markets have done so. If the United States and/or other countries do not 19 provide sufficient spectrum for wireless applications or reallocate spectrum in the wireless frequency bands for other purposes, our customers may delay or cancel deployments in broadband wireless, which could seriously harm our business. Further, if our customers are unable to obtain licenses or sufficient spectrum in the wireless frequency bands our business could be seriously harmed. The cable industry is also heavily regulated and changes in the regulatory landscape may adversely affect our business. For example, cable operators are currently required to carry a significant number of analog channels. A reduction or elimination of this requirement may free bandwidth for these operators and reduce the potential market for our products. Competition may decrease our market share, net revenues and gross margins, which could cause our stock price to decline. The market for broadband access equipment and systems is intensely competitive, rapidly evolving and subject to rapid technological change. The main competitive factors in our markets include: •product performance, features and reliability; •price; •stability; •scope of product line; •sales and distribution capabilities; •technical service and support; •relationships, particularly those with system integrators and operators; and •industry standards. Certain of our competitors and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, distribution, marketing and other resources than we have and, therefore, may be able to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities, technologies and other developments. In addition, many of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, broader product lines and established relationships with system integrators and service providers. Our primary competitors are Scientific Atlanta (purchased by Cisco Systems, Inc. in 2006); Motorola, Inc.; BigBand Networks, Inc.; C-Cor Incorporated and Narad Networks, Inc. Most of these competitors have existing relationships with one or more of our prospective customers. In the cable industry, our cable offerings face competition from technologies such as digital set-top boxes, high-end compression technologies and DVRs. For our broadband wireless offerings, we face competition from technologies such as digital subscriber line, fiber and cable. Furthermore, the move toward open standards may increase the number of operators who will offer new services, which in turn may increase the number of competitors and drive down the capital expenditures per subscriber deployed. We may not be able to compete successfully against our current and future competitors, and competitive pressures could seriously harm our business. If the adoption of broadband wireless technology continues to be limited, we will not be able to sustain or expand our business. Our future success in the wireless telecommunications market depends on high-speed wireless communications products gaining market acceptance as a means to provide voice and data communications services. Because these markets are relatively new and unproven, it is difficult to predict if these markets will ever develop, expand or be sufficiently large to sustain our business. Major service providers in the United States have ceased, delayed or reduced their rollouts and may further delay or reduce rollouts in the future. Our expectations with respect to a recovery, if any, in the 20 telecommunications market, may not prove accurate. In the event that service providers adopt technologies other than the wireless technologies that we offer or if they delay further their deployment of high-speed wireless communication products, we will not be able to sustain or expand our business. While we continue to operate our Wireless Solutions segment, our primary focus is now on our Cable Solutions segment. Accordingly, we may consider a variety of alternatives to Wireless Solutions segment, including the sale, divestiture, license or restructuring of a substantial portion or all of our current wireless network technology or assets. Hardware defects or firmware errors could increase our costs and impair the market acceptance of our systems, which would adversely affect our future operating results. Our systems occasionally contain certain defects or errors. This may result either from defects in components supplied by third parties or from errors or defects in our firmware or hardware that we have not detected. We have in the past experienced, and may experience from time-to-time, defects in new or enhanced products and systems after shipments, or defects in deployed systems. This could occur in connection with stability or other performance problems. Our customers integrate our systems into their networks with components from other vendors. Accordingly, when problems occur in a network system, it may be difficult to identify the component that caused the problem. Regardless of the source of these defects or errors, we will need to divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts to address the defect or error. We have incurred in the past and may again incur significant warranty and repair costs related to defects or errors, and we also may be subject to liability claims for damages related to these defects or errors. The occurrence of defects or errors, whether caused by our systems or the components of another vendor, may result in significant customer relationship problems and injury to our reputation and may impair the market acceptance of our systems. We depend on contract manufacturers and third party equipment and technology suppliers, and these manufacturers and suppliers may be unable to fill our orders or develop compatible, required technology on a timely basis, which would result in delays that could seriously harm our results of operations. We currently have relationships with a limited number of contract manufacturers for the manufacturing of our products, substantially all of whom are located in Israel and Taiwan. These relationships may be terminated by either party with little or no notice. If our manufacturers are unable or unwilling to continue manufacturing our systems in required volumes, we would have to identify qualified alternative manufacturers, which would result in delays causing our results of operations to suffer. Our limited experience with these manufacturers and lack of visibility as to the manufacturing capabilities of these companies if our volume requirements significantly increase does not provide us with a reliable basis on which to project their ability to meet delivery schedules, yield targets or costs. If we are required to find alternative manufacturing sources, we may not be able to satisfy our production requirements at acceptable prices and on a timely basis, if at all. Any significant interruption in supply would affect the allocation of systems to customers, which in turn could seriously harm our business. In addition, we currently have no formal written agreement with a manufacturer for our modem products. Our current inventory of modems is unlikely to fulfill anticipated demand, and we will therefore be required to find a manufacturer in the near future. Our inability to enter into an agreement with a manufacturer for our modems would harm our business. In addition to sales to system integrators, we also sell in some instances directly to service providers. Such direct sales require us to resell equipment to service providers manufactured by third party suppliers and to integrate this equipment with the equipment we manufacture. We are particularly dependent on third party radio suppliers in selling our 3.5GHz and other products. We currently have limited relationships with third party suppliers. If we are unable to establish meaningful 21 relationships with suppliers, or if these suppliers are unable to provide equipment that meets the specifications of our customers on the delivery schedules required by our customers, and at acceptable prices, our business would be substantially harmed. Our Spectrum Overlay solutions are implemented over the HFC plant and, as such, they interface and integrate with existing products from multiple other vendors. Future offerings by these vendors may not be sufficiently compatible with our Spectrum Overlay solutions. In addition, we depend on the continuous delivery of components by various manufacturers of electronic connectors, filters, boards and transistors. Furthermore, we have produced certain of our products only in limited quantities. If demand for these products increases significantly, we will need to implement and address additional processes, procedures and activities necessary to support increased production. If we are unable to do so, our business would be substantially harmed. We obtain some of the components included in our solutions from a single source or a limited group of suppliers, and the loss of any of these suppliers could cause production delays and a substantial loss of revenue. We currently obtain key components from a limited number of suppliers. Some of these components, such as semiconductor components for our wireless hubs, are obtained from a single source supplier. We generally do not have long-term supply contracts with our suppliers. These factors present us with the following risks: •delays in delivery or shortages in components could interrupt and delay manufacturing and result in cancellation of orders for our systems; •suppliers could increase component prices significantly and with immediate effect; •we may not be able to develop alternative sources for system components, if or as required in the future; •suppliers could discontinue the manufacture or supply of components used in our systems. In such event, we might need to modify our systems, which may cause delays in shipments, increased manufacturing costs and increased systems prices; and •we may hold more inventory than is immediately required to compensate for potential component shortages or discontinuation. The occurrence of any of these or similar events would harm our business. If we do not effectively manage our costs, our business could be substantially harmed. We have increased certain expenses to address new business opportunities in the Cable Solutions segment, and we will need to continue to monitor closely our costs and expenses. If the market for our cable solutions does not expand or takes longer to develop than we expect, we may need to further reduce our operations. In addition, our acquisition of Xtend has caused our costs to increase as we seek to develop business. Delays and shortages in the supply of components from our suppliers and third party vendors could reduce our revenues or increase our cost of revenues. Delays and shortages in the supply of components are typical in our industry. We have experienced minor delays and shortages on more than one occasion. In addition, if worldwide manufacturing capacity does not rise along with a rise in demand, our subcontract manufacturers could allocate available capacity to larger customers or to customers that have long-term supply contracts in place. 22 Our inability to obtain adequate manufacturing capacity at acceptable prices, or any delay or interruption in supply, could reduce our revenues or increase our cost of revenue and could seriously harm our business. Third parties may bring infringement claims against us that could harm our ability to sell our products and result in substantial liabilities. Third parties could assert, and it could be found, that our technologies infringe their proprietary rights. We could incur substantial costs to defend any litigation, and intellectual property litigation could force us to do one or more of the following: •obtain licenses to the infringing technology; •pay substantial damages under applicable law; •stop the manufacture, use and sale of infringing products; or •expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology. Any infringement claim or litigation against us could significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, we may not be able to compete and our ability to provide unique products may be compromised. Our success depends in part on our ability to protect our proprietary technologies. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets and confidentiality and other contractual provisions to establish and protect our proprietary rights. Our pending or future patent applications may not be approved and the claims covered by such applications may be reduced. If allowed, our patents may not be of sufficient scope or strength, and others may independently develop similar technologies or products. Litigation, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our efforts, may also be necessary to enforce any patents issued or licensed to us or to determine the scope and validity of third party proprietary rights. Any such litigation, regardless of the outcome, could be expensive and time consuming, and adverse determinations in any such litigation could seriously harm our business. Similarly, our pending or future trademark applications may not be approved and may not be sufficient to protect our trademarks in the markets where we either do business or hope to conduct business. The inability to secure any necessary trademark rights could be costly and could seriously harm our business. We regularly evaluate and seek to explore and develop derivative products relating to our Cable Solutions segment. We may not be able to secure all desired intellectual property protection relating to such derivative products. Furthermore, because of the rapid pace of change in the broadband industry, much of our business and many of our products rely on technologies that evolve constantly and this continuing uncertainty makes it difficult to forecast future demand for our products. Government regulation and industry standards may increase our costs of doing business, limit our potential markets or require changes to our business model and adversely affect our business. The emergence or evolution of regulations and industry standards for broadband products, through official standards committees or widespread use by operators, could require us to modify our systems, which may be expensive and time-consuming, and to incur substantial compliance costs. Radio frequencies are subject to extensive regulation under the laws of the United States, foreign laws and international treaties. Each country has different regulations and regulatory processes for wireless communications equipment and uses of radio frequencies. Failure by the regulatory authorities to 23 allocate suitable, sufficient radio frequencies to potential customers in a timely manner could result in the delay or loss of potential orders for our systems and seriously harm our business. Some of our products and technology are subject to export control laws and regulations. We are subject to the risk that more stringent export control requirements could be imposed in the future on product classes that include products exported by us, which would result in additional compliance burdens and could impair the enforceability of our contract rights. We may not be able to renew our export licenses as necessary from time to time. In addition, we may be required to apply for additional licenses to cover modifications and enhancements to our products. Any revocation or expiration of any requisite license, the failure to obtain a license for product modifications and enhancements, or more stringent export control requirements could seriously harm our business. We are incurring additional costs and devoting more management resources to comply with increasing regulation of corporate governance and disclosure. The Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 and the resulting rules of the Nasdaq Stock Market will continue to require changes in our corporate governance, public disclosure and compliance practices. The scope of rules and regulations applicable to us has increased and will continue to increase our legal and financial compliance costs. As a public company, our systems of internal controls over financial reporting are required to comply with the standards adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (the "PCAOB"). We will be required to make our first annual certification on our internal controls over financial reporting in our annual report for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2007. In preparing for such certification, we are evaluating our internal controls for compliance with applicable SEC and PCAOB requirements, and we may be required to design enhanced processes and controls to address issues identified through this review. This could result in significant delays and cost to us and require us to divert substantial resources, including management time, from other activities. We have commenced a review of our existing internal control structure and may need to hire additional personnel. Although our review is not complete, we are taking steps to improve our internal control structure by dedicating internal resources to analyze and improve our internal controls, to be supplemented periodically with outside consultants as needed. However, if we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year 2007. Moreover, although our management will continue to review and evaluate the effectiveness of our internal controls, we can give no assurance that there will be no material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. We may in the future have material weaknesses or other control deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting as a result of our controls becoming inadequate due to changes in conditions, the degree of compliance with our internal control policies and procedures deteriorating, or for other reasons. If we have significant deficiencies or material weaknesses or other control deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting, our ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the SEC will be adversely affected. This failure could materially and adversely impact our business, our financial condition and the market value of our securities. These laws and regulations and perceived increased risk of liability could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our Board of Directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and qualified executive officers. We cannot estimate the timing or magnitude of additional costs we may incur as a result. 24 Our success depends significantly on Davidi Gilo, our Chairman of the Board, the loss of whom could seriously harm our business. Our future success depends in large part on the continued services of our senior management and key personnel. In particular, we significantly depend on the services of Davidi Gilo, our Chairman of the Board and former Chief Executive Officer. We do not carry key person life insurance on our senior management or key personnel. Any loss of the services of Mr. Gilo or other members of senior management or other key personnel could seriously harm our business. Recent regulations related to equity compensation could adversely affect earnings, affect our ability to raise capital and affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Since our inception, we have used stock options as a fundamental component of our employee compensation packages. We believe that our stock option plans are an important tool to link the long-term interests of stockholders and employees, especially executive management, and serve to motivate management to make decisions that will, in the long run, give the best returns to stockholders. The Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") has adopted changes to generally accepted accounting principals in the United States ("GAAP") that require us to record a charge to earnings for employee stock option grants, as well as other equity based awards. The change has negatively impacted our earnings and, if such impact is material in the future, could affect our ability to raise capital on acceptable terms. In addition, regulations implemented by the Nasdaq Stock Market requiring stockholder approval for all stock option plans could make it more difficult for us to grant stock options to employees in the future. To the extent these new regulations make it more difficult or unacceptably expensive to grant stock options to employees, we may incur increased compensation costs, change our equity compensation strategy or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business. The government programs and benefits we receive require us to satisfy prescribed conditions. These programs and benefits may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase our costs and taxes and could seriously harm our business. Certain of our capital investments have been granted "approved enterprise" status under Israeli law providing us with certain Israeli tax benefits. The benefits available to an approved enterprise are conditioned upon the fulfillment of conditions stipulated in applicable law and in the specific certificate of approval. If we fail to comply with these conditions, in whole or in part, we may be required to pay additional taxes for the period in which we enjoyed the tax benefits and would likely be denied these benefits in the future. From time to time, the government of Israel has considered reducing or eliminating the benefits available under the approved enterprise program. These tax benefits may not be continued in the future at their current levels or at all. The termination or reduction of these benefits would increase our taxes and could seriously harm our business. As of the date hereof, our Israeli subsidiaries have accumulated loss carry forwards for Israeli tax purposes and therefore have not enjoyed any tax benefits under current approved enterprise programs. In the past, we have received grants from the government of Israel for the financing of a portion of our research and development expenditures for previous products in Israel. The regulations under which we received these grants restrict our ability to manufacture products or transfer technology outside of Israel for products developed with this technology. Furthermore, these grants may not be available to us in the future. As of April 1, 2005, the government of Israel eliminated the ability of companies to submit new applications for approved enterprise status. This change in the government policy may hinder us in the future with respect to any benefits we may have received for new undertakings which would have been entitled to "approved enterprise" status. 25 We may lose our United States income tax net operating loss carryforwards if we experience a significant change in ownership. The utilization of net operating loss carryforwards may be subject to substantial annual limitations if there has been a significant "change in ownership." Any "change in ownership," as described in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, may substantially limit our ability to utilize the net operating losses carryforwards. As of December 31, 2006, we had United States federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $55,100,000, which will expire in years 2011 through 2026 and state net operating losses of approximately $40,200,000 which will expire in years 2008 through 2016. A majority of our directors and certain officers have relationships with Davidi Gilo and his affiliated companies that could be deemed to limit their independence. A majority of our Board of Directors, Lewis Broad, Neill Brownstein, Avraham Fischer, Samuel Kaplan and Alan Zimmerman and certain of our officers, have had professional relationships with Davidi Gilo, our Chairman of the Board and former Chief Executive Officer, and his affiliated companies for several years. These members of our Board of Directors previously served on the boards of directors of DSP Communications, Inc. and/or DSP Group, Inc., of which Mr. Gilo was formerly the controlling stockholder and the Chairman of the Board. In addition, Avraham Fischer is a senior partner of the law firm of Fischer, Behar, Chen & Co., which represents us on matters relating to Israeli law, is an investor and co-chief executive officer of an Israeli investor group in which Mr. Gilo was an investor until October 2005, and is co-chief executive officer and a director of Clal Industries and Investments, Ltd., which has made a significant investment in ANI, a related party of our company. However, the long-term relationships between these directors and officers and Mr. Gilo and his affiliated companies could be considered to limit their independence. Because our management has the ability to control stockholder votes, the premium over market price that an acquirer might otherwise pay could be reduced and any merger or takeover could be delayed. As of December 31, 2006, our management collectively owned approximately 35.73% of our outstanding common stock (based on the number of shares owned by these individuals and the number of shares issuable upon exercise of options within 60 days of December 31, 2006). As a result, these stockholders, acting together, will be able to control the outcome of all matters submitted for stockholder action, including: •electing members to our Board of Directors; •approving significant change-in-control transactions; •determining the amount and timing of dividends paid to themselves and to our public stockholders; and •controlling our management and operations. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business consolidation involving us, or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our shares. This concentration of ownership could also negatively affect our stock's market price or decrease any premium over market price that an acquirer might otherwise pay. We rely on a continuous power supply to conduct our operations, and any electrical or natural resource crisis could disrupt our operations and increase our expenses. We rely on a continuous power supply for manufacturing and to conduct our business operations. Interruptions in electrical power supplies occur around the world from time to time. Meanwhile, prices of the resources, such as electrical power and crude oil, upon which we ultimately rely, directly or 26 indirectly, in running our business have been volatile. Power shortages could disrupt our manufacturing, information technology and business operations and those of many of our suppliers, and could cause us to fail to meet production schedules and commitments to customers and other third parties. Any disruption to our operations or those of our suppliers could result in damage to our current and prospective business relationships and could result in lost revenue and additional expenses, thereby harming our business and operating results. Because the Nasdaq Global Market is likely to continue to experience extreme price and volume fluctuations, the price of our stock may decline. The market price of our shares has been and likely will continue to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors, including the following: •actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results or those of our competitors; •announcements by us or our competitors of new products or technological innovations; •introduction and adoption of new industry standards; •changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; •changes in the market valuations of our competitors; •announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or partnerships; and •sales of our common stock. Many of these factors are beyond our control and may negatively impact the market price of our common stock, regardless of our performance. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for technology and telecommunications related companies in particular, have been highly volatile. Our common stock may not trade at the same levels compared to shares of other technology companies and shares of technology companies, in general, may not sustain their current market prices. To date, the trading volume in our common stock generally has been relatively low and significant price fluctuations can occur as a result. If the generally low trading volumes experienced to date continue, such price fluctuations could continue in the future and the sale prices of our common stock could decline significantly. Investors may therefore have difficulty selling their shares. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We could become the target of similar litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources, which could seriously harm our business and operating results. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, if they change their recommendations regarding our shares adversely or if our operating results to not meet their expectations, the price of our common stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry and securities analysts publish about us or our business. If these analysts fail to publish reports about us or if one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Moreover, if one or more analysts who cover us downgrade our common stock or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, the price of our common stock could decline. 27 Provisions of our governing documents and Delaware law could discourage acquisition proposals or delay a change in control. Our Fourth Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws contain anti-takeover provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if that change in control would be beneficial to stockholders. Specifically: •our Board of Directors has the authority to issue common stock and preferred stock and to determine the price, rights and preferences of any new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval; •our Board of Directors is divided into three classes, each serving three-year terms; •super majority voting is required to amend key provisions of our Fourth Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws; •there are limitations on who can call special meetings of stockholders; and •advance notice is required for nominations of directors and for stockholder proposals. In addition, provisions of Delaware law and our stock option plans may also discourage, delay or prevent a change of control or unsolicited acquisition proposals. It may be difficult to enforce a judgment in the United States against us and our nonresident Chief Financial Officer and certain directors. Our Chief Financial Officer and two of our directors are not residents of the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States based upon the civil or criminal liabilities provisions of the United States federal securities laws against us or any of those persons or to effect service of process upon these persons in the United States. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 