ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. In addition to the other information contained in this report, you should consider the following risk factors before investing in our securities. We were not profitable in 2006 and will continue to sustain a loss in the foreseeable future. We were not profitable in 2006. In addition, we intend to make significant investments in support of our business in 2007 and we expect to sustain a loss in 2007 and possibly subsequent periods. If we fail to achieve such revenue growth as a result of these additional investments or if such revenue growth does not result in our achieving profitability, the market price of our common stock will likely decline. A sustained period of losses would also result in an increased usage cash to fund our operating activities and a corresponding reduction in our cash balance. Our quarterly results have in the past, and may in the future, fluctuate significantly. Our quarterly revenue and operating results have in the past and may in the future fluctuate from quarter to quarter. As a result, we believe that quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year comparisons of our revenue and operating results are not necessarily meaningful, and that these comparisons may not be accurate indicators of future performance. Several factors that have contributed or may in the future contribute to fluctuations in our operating results include: · demand for our software and services; · size and timing of customer orders and our ability to recognize revenue in a given quarter; · our reliance on a small number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenue; · the price and mix of products and services we or our competitors offer; · our ability to attract and retain customers; · the rate of expansion of our new consumer offerings and our investments therein; · the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures in our business; · seasonal trends resulting from corporate spending patterns; 14 · the exercise of judgment by our management in making accounting decisions in accordance with our accounting policies; and · general economic conditions and their effect on our operations. In prior years, we licensed a significant portion of our software on a term basis in which revenue was recognized ratably over the length of the agreement with the customer. In recent periods, however, we typically have licensed our software on a perpetual basis in which we recognize the license revenue up front, assuming all criteria for revenue recognition have been met. As we have shifted to a perpetual licensing model, we have become dependent on a few customer contracts with up-front license revenue for a substantial portion of our revenue in any one quarter. In addition, a significant portion of our total revenue each quarter comes from a number of orders received in the last month of a quarter. In previous quarters, we failed to close expected perpetual licenses with up-front revenue resulting in a revenue shortfall. If in future quarters we fail to close orders expected to be completed by the end of a quarter, particularly if these orders are for perpetual licenses with up-front revenue, our quarterly results would suffer and the market price of our common stock would likely decline. We are seeking to introduce transaction structures that involve ratable revenue recognition, but these types of transactions do not yet account for a material portion of our revenue. Our inability to meet future financial performance targets that we announce or that are published by research analysts could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. From time to time, we provide guidance related to our future financial performance. In addition, financial analysts publish their own expectations of our future financial performance. Because our quarterly revenue and our operating results fluctuate, future financial performance is difficult to predict. In the past, we have failed to meet our guidance. Future downward adjustments of our guidance or the failure to meet our guidance or the expectations of research analysts would cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Management’s ability to accurately predict performance is affected in large part by a significant portion of our total revenue being dependent upon the closing of new large customer orders. In addition, our guidance is based in part upon the expectation of new product sales and services offerings with which we have a limited history. In the event we fail to achieve projected revenue levels in any quarter, we will be unable to reduce our expenses for that quarter in a corresponding fashion, and our results will not meet our guidance or the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which would cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. We do not control these analysts. If one or more of the analysts who currently cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price would likely decline rapidly. Furthermore, if one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Because a small number of customers have historically accounted for and may in future periods account for substantial portions of our revenue, our revenue could decline because of delays or losses of specific customer orders. A small number of customers have historically accounted for, and may in future periods account for, substantial portions of our revenue. For the quarter ended December 31, 2006, one customer accounted for 13% of our total revenue for the quarter. Transaction structures that involve ratable revenue recognition and our consumer offerings, which typically involve payment on a per transaction basis, could reduce our dependence on large transactions with a small number of customers. However, in the near term, we are likely to continue to derive a significant portion of our revenue from large transactions with a limited number of customers. Therefore, our revenue could decline because of the loss or delay of a single 15 customer order. Additionally, we may not obtain new customers. The failure to obtain significant new customers, particularly customers that purchase perpetual licenses with up-front payments, the loss or delay of significant customer orders or the failure of existing customers to pay ongoing fees when due would harm our operating results. Our sales cycle is lengthy and if revenue forecasted for a particular quarter is not realized in that quarter, significant expenses incurred may not be offset by corresponding revenue. Our sales cycle for our software typically ranges from three to nine months or more and may vary substantially from customer to customer. The purchase of our products and services for corporate customers generally involves a significant commitment of capital and other resources by a customer. This commitment often requires significant technical review, assessment of competitive products and approval at a number of management levels within a customer’s organization. In addition, in the wake of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, companies have enhanced their approval processes, making sales more difficult or protracted. While our customers are evaluating our products and services, we may incur substantial sales and marketing expenses and spend significant management effort to complete these sales. Any delay in completing sales in a particular quarter or the failure to complete a sale after expending resources during the sales cycle could cause our operating results to suffer. Our recently announced consumer technology support initiative will increase operating expenses without any assurance of yielding increased revenue. We have announced a plan to extend our business by providing consumer technology support services. In addition to continuing to offer our software to corporate customers, we are offering technology support to consumers. We may not be able to offer these new services successfully. We have limited experience in reaching or serving consumers directly or in managing call centers. As a result, we expect to use significant cash and incur increased operating expenses to support this new initiative, including costs of our outsourced call centers, promotional costs associated with reaching consumers and costs of obtaining personnel with the necessary consumer expertise. These investments may not yield increased revenue to offset these expenses. Furthermore, this new business initiative, if not favorably received by consumers, could damage the reputation of our corporate enterprise business as well as strain our management, financial and operational resources necessary to maintain our corporate business. The lack of market acceptance of such efforts or our inability to generate satisfactory revenue from such expanded services would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. Our future product and service offerings may not achieve market acceptance. If we fail to develop enhanced versions of our software in a timely manner or to provide products and services that achieve rapid and broad market acceptance, we may not maintain or expand our market share. We may fail to identify new product and service opportunities for our current market or new markets that we enter in the future. In addition, our existing products may become obsolete if we fail to introduce new products or product enhancements that meet new customer demands, support new standards or integrate with new or upgraded versions of packaged applications or operating systems. We have limited control over factors that affect market acceptance of our product and services, including: · the willingness of companies to transition to automated solutions; and · customer preferences for competitors’ solutions or other technologies. If our existing customers do not renew maintenance contracts or purchase additional products and services, our operating results could suffer. Historically, we have derived, and expect to continue to derive, a significant portion of our total revenue from existing customers who purchase additional products and services and renew maintenance 16 contracts. Our customers may not renew maintenance contracts or purchase additional products and services. In addition, as we introduce new products, our current customers may not require or desire the functionality of our new products and may not ultimately purchase these products. If our customers do not renew maintenance contracts or do not purchase additional products and services, our operating results would suffer. We are seeking to increase our international revenues and if our revenue from this effort does not exceed the expense of establishing and maintaining international operations, our business could suffer. We are seeking to increase our international revenues. For the years ended December 31, 2004, 2005, and 2006, international revenue was 11%, 21% and 23% of total revenue, respectively. We have limited experience in international operations and may not be able to compete effectively in international markets or effectively manage our operations in various countries. If we do not generate enough revenue from international operations to offset the expense of these operations, our operating results could suffer. Risks we face in conducting business internationally include: · costs of staffing and managing international operations; · smaller customers with less ability to pay United States rates for software and services; · difficulty in reaching geographically dispersed customers; · differing technology standards and legal considerations; · longer sales cycles; · dependence on local vendors and consultants; · difficulties in staffing and managing international operations, including the difficulty in managing a geographically dispersed workforce in compliance with diverse local laws and customs; · potential adverse tax consequences; · changes in currency exchange rates and controls; · difficulties in maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting as a result of a geographically-dispersed workforce and customers; · longer collection cycles for accounts receivable; and · the effects of external events such as terrorist acts and any related conflicts or similar events worldwide. Our operating results will suffer if we do not expand and manage our professional services organization effectively. Clients that license our software typically engage our professional services organization to assist with installation and implementation of our software and related consulting services. Revenue from professional services represented a substantial portion of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2006. We plan to further increase the number of professional services personnel, especially internationally, to meet customer needs. We may not be able to recruit the professional services personnel we need or retain our current professional services personnel because competition for qualified professional services personnel is intense. New professional services personnel will require training and education and take time to reach full productivity. In addition, we cannot be certain that our professional services business will operate in a profitable manner. We have generally billed our customers for professional services on a time and material basis, using an agreed upon daily rate. However, customers have increasingly requested various contract 17 structures, including milestone-based contracts and contracts for a fixed total fee. If unanticipated factors in a project are encountered and the contract structure prevents us from billing additional amounts, we may be subject to monetary penalties, and the profitably of our professional services business would suffer. Furthermore, an estimated loss on a contract is generally required to be recorded in the period in which a loss becomes evident. Recording a loss on a services contract could have a material adverse effect on our operating results for the period in which the loss was recorded. Our failure to establish and expand third-party alliances would harm our ability to sell our software and provide our services. We have alliances with third parties that are important to our business. Our existing relationships include those with hardware vendors and managed service providers who provide outsourced support to corporate customers. If these relationships fail, we may need to devote substantially more resources to the sales and marketing of our products and services than we would otherwise, and our efforts may not be as effective. For example, companies that provide outsourced support and services often have extensive relationships with our existing and potential customers and significant input in the purchase decisions of these customers. In addition, we may establish relationships with third party resellers and other sales partners as we expand internationally. Our failure to maintain existing relationships, or to establish new relationships with key third parties, could significantly harm our ability to sell our products and services. In addition, our competitors may have strong alliances with other companies, including hardware providers, which could impact our ability to obtain greater market share, participate in deals where hardware and software are sold together, or require us to reduce the price of products and services, which could harm our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. Our consumer offerings require us to establish and maintain relationships with third parties who will direct consumers to us and provide technology support services to consumers based on our technology, as well as with third parties to whom we outsource our call center services. Failure to establish or maintain these relationships on acceptable terms or at all could materially and adversely affect the success of this initiative. We may engage in investments or acquisitions or other strategic matters that could divert management attention and prove difficult to integrate with our business. We may engage in acquisitions of other companies, products or technologies or in other strategic initiatives. If we fail to integrate successfully any future acquisitions, the operating results of the combined company could decline. The process of integrating businesses, technologies, services or products may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Acquisitions involve a number of other potential risks to our business, including the following: · unanticipated costs and liabilities and unforeseen accounting charges or fluctuations; · delays and difficulties in delivery of products and services from the combined company; · failure to integrate management information systems, personnel, research and development, marketing, sales and support operations; · loss of key employees; · diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns and disruption of our ongoing business; · difficulty in maintaining controls and procedures; · uncertainty on the part of our existing customers about our ability to operate on a combined basis; · loss of customers; 18 · loss of alliance partners; · failure to realize the potential financial or strategic benefits of the acquisition; and · failure to successfully further develop the combined technology, resulting in the impairment of amounts recorded as goodwill or other intangible assets. We must compete successfully in the market for software and services that resolve technology problems or our business will suffer. We compete in markets that are highly competitive, subject to rapid change and significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants. We compete with a number of companies in the market for automated delivery of support and service automation and other vendors who may offer products or services with features that compete with specific elements of our software products and services. In addition, our customers and potential customers have developed or may develop internally similar software systems. The markets for our products are still rapidly evolving, and we may not be able to compete successfully against current and potential competitors. Our ability to expand our business will depend on our ability to maintain our technological advantage, introduce timely enhanced products to meet growing support needs, deliver on-going value to our customers and scale our business. Our potential competitors may have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical and other resources, stronger strategic alliances or greater name recognition than we have. Competition in our markets could reduce our market share or require us to reduce the price of products and services, which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. As we further enter the market for consumer technology support, we expect to compete against a set of competitors different than the competitors against whom we have historically competed, including electronics retailers offering on-site technology support services, companies offering online technology support services and companies offering local technology support services. Certain of these anticipated competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical and other resources, stronger strategic alliances or greater name recognition than we have. The loss of key personnel and the integration of new management may affect our ability to achieve our business goals. Our success depends on the skills, experience and performance of our senior management, engineering, sales, marketing and other key personnel. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key personnel at the Senior Vice President or Vice President level, could harm our business and our ability to achieve our business goals. In addition, many members of senior management have been appointed within the last year. Our success will depend to a significant extent on the ability of these executives to function effectively in their new roles and to work together successfully. If these executives do not function and work together successfully or if we lose the services of one or more of our executives or key employees, our business could be harmed. Our exposure to the credit risks of our customers and resellers could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. To sell to some of our customers, we may be required to take risks of uncollectible accounts. We may be exposed to similar risks relating to third party resellers and other sales partners, as we intend to increasingly utilize such parties as we expand into new geographic regions. Additionally, as we have expanded our business internationally, we have experienced longer payment terms and collection cycles from customers outside the United States. While we monitor these situations carefully and attempt to take appropriate measures to protect ourselves by recognizing revenue upon collection of accounts from 19 customers we deem to have credit risks and upon sell-through by resellers, it is possible that we may have to write down or write off doubtful accounts. Such write-downs or write-offs would negatively affect our operating results for the period in which they occur, and, if large, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Our products depend on and work with products containing complex software, and if our products fail to perform properly due to errors in the software, we may need to devote resources to correct the errors or compensate for losses from these errors and our reputation could be harmed. Our products depend on complex software, both internally developed and licensed from third parties. Also, our customers may use our products with other companies’ products, which may also contain complex software. Complex software often contains errors and may not perform properly. These errors could result in: · delays in product shipments; · unexpected expenses and diversion of resources to identify the source of errors or to correct errors, whether or not the error is later determined to be related to our software; · damage to our reputation; · lost sales; · contractual penalties, demands, claims and litigation and related defense costs; and · warranty claims. In our consumer offerings, we generally use our own products to diagnose and resolve consumer technology problems. If our products fail to perform well in this environment, our consumer offerings would suffer and may not be successful. Our software may not operate with the hardware and software platforms that are used by our customers now or in the future, and, as a result, our business and operating results may suffer. We currently serve a customer base with a wide variety of constantly changing hardware, software and networking platforms. If we fail to release versions of our software that are compatible with operating systems, software applications or hardware devices used by our customers, our business and operating results would suffer. Our future success also depends on the continuing ability of our products to inter-operate with multiple platforms and packaged applications used by our customer base and on our management of software being developed by third parties for our customers or for use with our products. We rely on third-party technologies and our inability to use or integrate third-party technologies could delay product or service development. We intend to continue to license technologies from third parties, including applications used in our research and development activities and technologies such as third-party search engine technology, which are integrated into our products and services. Our inability to obtain or integrate any of these technologies with our own products could delay product and service development until equivalent compatible technology can be identified, licensed and integrated. These technologies may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We may fail to successfully integrate any licensed technology into our products or services, which would harm our business and operating results. Third-party licenses also expose us to increased risks that include: · risks of product malfunction after new technology is integrated; · the diversion of resources from the development of our own proprietary technology; and 20 · our inability to generate revenue from new technology sufficient to offset associated acquisition and maintenance costs. Our system security is important to our customers and we may need to spend significant resources to protect against or correct problems caused by security breaches. A fundamental requirement for online communications, transactions and support is the secure transmission of confidential information. Third parties may attempt to breach our security or that of our customers. We may be liable to our customers for any breach in security and any breach could harm our business and reputation. Also, computers are vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, which could lead to interruptions, delays or loss of data. We recently released a security advisory and a patch for a remote code execution vulnerability in several of our ActiveX components. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to further protect against security breaches or to correct problems caused by any breach. Our reported results of operations will continue to be materially and adversely affected by our adoption of SFAS 123R. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment (SFAS 123R), became effective in our first quarter of 2006, and has resulted in our recognition of substantial compensation expense relating to our employee stock options and employee stock purchase plans. Historically, we generally have not recognized in our statement of operations any compensation expense related to stock option grants we issue under our stock option plans or the discounts we provide under our employee stock purchase plans. Under the new rules, we are required to measure the compensation expense related to employee stock awards on a fair value basis, which leads to substantial additional compensation expense and a material adverse effect on our reported results of operations. If we are unable to successfully address the material weakness in our disclosure controls and procedures or otherwise maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures, including our internal control over financial reporting, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be adversely affected. We have evaluated our “disclosure controls and procedures” as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as well as our internal control over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our independent registered public accounting firm has performed a similar evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting. Effective controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our operating results would be harmed. For the period ended December 31, 2006, we concluded that we had a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, as further described in Item 8, Report of Management on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our independent registered public accounting firm reached the same conclusion. We are implementing corrective actions, which we believe will remediate this material weakness. However, we cannot be certain that these measures will remediate the material weakness we have identified or, if we are successful in remediating this material weakness, whether we will be able to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. If these actions are not successful in addressing this material weakness, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be adversely affected. In addition, if we cannot establish effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. 21 We have recorded long-lived assets, and our results of operations would be adversely affected if their value becomes impaired. Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets were recorded in part due to our acquisition of substantially all of the assets of Core Networks Incorporated in September 2004. We also have certain intangible assets with an indefinite life. We assess the impairment of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets annually or more often if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We assess the impairment of acquired product rights and other finite life intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that its carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss would be recognized when the sum of the discounted future net cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset and its eventual disposition is less than its carrying amount. Such impairment loss would be measured as the difference between the carrying amount of the asset and its fair value. Material differences may result in write-downs of net long-lived and intangible assets, which would cause our operating results to suffer. Failure to resolve pending securities claims and other lawsuits may lead to continued costs and expenses and divert management’s attention from our business, which could cause our revenue and our stock price to decline. Securities class action lawsuits were filed against us in November 2001 and again in December 2004. In addition, a derivative stockholder lawsuit was filed against us in December 2005. Should these lawsuits linger for a long period of time, whether ultimately resolved in our favor or not, or further lawsuits be filed against us, coverage limits of our insurance or our ability to pay such amounts may not be adequate to cover the fees and expenses and any ultimate resolution associated with such litigation. The size of these payments, if any, individually or in the aggregate, could seriously impair our cash reserves and financial condition. The continued defense of these lawsuits also could result in diversion of our management’s time and attention away from business operations, which could cause our financial results to decline. A failure to resolve definitively current or future material litigation in which we are involved or in which we may become involved in the future, regardless of the merits of the respective cases, could also cast doubt as to our prospects in the eyes of customers, potential customers and investors, which could cause our revenue and stock price to decline. Privacy concerns and laws or other domestic or foreign regulations may reduce the effectiveness of our solutions or harm our reputation and cause us to lose customers. Our software contains features which allow our customers to control, monitor or collect information from computers running the software. Federal, state and foreign government bodies and agencies, however, have adopted or are considering adopting laws and regulations regarding the collection, use and disclosure of personal information obtained from consumers and individuals. Liability for violation of, costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by such laws and regulations may limit the use and adoption of our solutions and reduce overall demand for them. Even the perception of privacy concerns, whether or not valid, may inhibit adoption of our solutions. In addition, we may face claims about invasion of privacy or inappropriate disclosure, use or loss of this information. Any imposition of liability could harm our reputation, cause us to lose customers and cause our operating results to suffer. We may not obtain sufficient patent protection, which could harm our competitive position, increase our expenses and harm our business. Our success and ability to compete depend to a significant degree upon the protection of our software and other proprietary technology. It is possible that: · our pending patent applications may not be issued; · competitors may independently develop similar technologies or design around any of our patents; 22 · patents issued to us may not be broad enough to protect our proprietary rights; and · our issued patents could be successfully challenged. We rely upon patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets to protect our proprietary rights and if these rights are not sufficiently protected, it could harm our ability to compete and to generate revenue. We rely on a combination of laws, such as patents, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, and contractual restrictions, such as confidentiality agreements and licenses, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. Our ability to compete and grow our business could suffer if these rights are not adequately protected. Our proprietary rights may not be adequately protected because: · laws and contractual restrictions may not adequately prevent misappropriation of our technologies or deter others from developing similar technologies; and · policing unauthorized use of our products and trademarks is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and we may be unable to determine the existence or extent of this unauthorized use. Also, the laws of other countries in which we market our products may offer little or no protection of our proprietary technologies. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technologies could enable third parties to benefit from our technologies without paying us for them, which would harm our competitive position and market share. We may face intellectual property infringement claims that could be costly to defend and result in our loss of significant rights. Other parties may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us or our customers and our products may infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties. For example, our products may infringe issued patents that may relate to our products. In addition, as is increasingly common in the software industry, we may be confronted with the aggressive enforcement of patents by companies whose primary business activity is to acquire patents for the purpose of offensively asserting them against other companies. Intellectual property litigation is expensive and time-consuming and could divert management’s attention from our business. If there is a successful claim of infringement, we may be required to develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or license agreements, which may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Our failure to develop non-infringing technologies or license proprietary rights on a timely basis would harm our business. If the growth of demand for digital services does not continue, our ability to increase our revenue could suffer. Our ability to increase our revenue will depend in part on increased demand for digital services. If this demand does not grow as rapidly or to the extent we anticipate, our business could suffer. The growth of digital services is uncertain and will depend in particular upon the availability, at a reasonable price, of such digital services, the building of infrastructure to support such services, the availability of competitive products, and the reliability of such services. We may experience a decrease in market demand due to uncertain economic conditions in the United States and in international markets, which has been further exacerbated by the concerns of terrorism, war and social and political instability. The United States and international economies have in the past experienced periods of slow economic growth and this could occur again. In addition, terrorist attacks in the United States and turmoil in certain overseas regions have increased uncertainty and may exacerbate a decline in economic conditions, both domestically and internationally. If the economy declines as a result of economic, political and social turmoil, or if there are further terrorist attacks in the United States or elsewhere, we may experience decreases in the demand for our products and services, which would harm our operating results. 23 We may be required to change our business practices if there are changes in accounting regulations and related interpretations and policies. Accounting standards groups and regulators are actively re-examining various accounting policies, guidelines and interpretations related to revenue recognition, income taxes, investments in equity securities, facilities consolidation, accounting for acquisitions, allowance for doubtful accounts and other financial reporting matters. These standards groups and regulators could promulgate interpretations and guidance that could result in material and potentially adverse changes to our business practices and accounting policies. New rules and regulations for public companies have increased and may continue to increase our administrative costs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Nasdaq Global Select Market, has required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. These rules and regulations are increasing our legal and financial compliance costs, and making some activities more time-consuming and costly. These rules and regulations make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. These new rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and qualified executive officers. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 