Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks related to the Company’s business Changes in general economic conditions and other factors affecting consumer spending could adversely affect the Company’s sales, operating results or financial position. The Company’s global operations depend on factors affecting consumer disposable income and spending patterns. These factors include general economic conditions, employment rates, business conditions, interest rates and tax policy in each of the markets and regions in which the Company operates. Customers may defer or cancel purchases of the Company’s products due to uncertainty about global economic conditions. Consumer confidence may decline due to recessionary economic cycles, high interest rates on consumer or business borrowings, restricted credit availability, inflation, high levels of unemployment or consumer debt, high tax rates or other economic factors. For example, the challenging economic environment in Europe has adversely impacted the Company’s results of operations in fiscal 2012, and the Company expects the adverse economic environment will continue to affect its sales and earnings across that region in the near future as the result of austerity measures imposed by certain governments and high levels of unemployment, as well as a general loss of consumer confidence. Declining consumer confidence could adversely affect demand for the Company’s products. Changes in the amount or severity of bad weather and the growth or decline of global footwear, apparel or consumer-direct markets could negatively affect consumer spending. A decline in demand for the Company’s products could reduce its revenues or profit margins. General economic conditions and other factors such as those listed above may increase the Company’s cost of sales and decrease the Company’s profitability. The Company’s profitability is also dependent on the prices of commodities, such as cotton, rubber and petroleum, used to make and transport its products, as well as the prices of labor, insurance and health care, all of which may be affected by general economic conditions. 14 The Company operates in competitive industries and markets. The Company competes with a large number of marketers of footwear or apparel, and consumer-direct companies. Some of these competitors are larger and have greater resources than the Company. Important elements of such competition are product performance and quality, including technological improvements, product identity, competitive pricing and the ability to adapt to style changes. Consumer preferences and, as a result, the popularity of particular designs and categories of footwear and apparel, generally change over time. The Company strives to maintain and improve its competitive position by monitoring and responding to changes in consumer preferences, increasing brand awareness, gaining sourcing efficiencies, and enhancing the style, comfort and perceived value of its products. The Company’s continued ability to sell its products at competitive prices and to meet shifts in consumer preferences will affect its future sales. If the Company is unable to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in consumer spending, its results of operations and financial position may be adversely affected. Many of the Company’s competitors have more developed consumer and customer bases, are able to sell their products at lower prices, or have greater financial, technical or marketing resources than the Company, particularly its competitors in the apparel and consumer-direct businesses. The Company’s competitors may own more recognized brands; implement more effective marketing campaigns; adopt more aggressive pricing policies; make more attractive offers to potential employees, distribution partners and manufacturers; or respond more quickly to changes in consumer preferences. The Company’s results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected if its strategic initiatives are not successful. The Company’s operating results could be adversely affected if it is unable to maintain its brands’ positive images with consumers or adjust to changing footwear and apparel trends. The Company’s success depends in part on its brands’ images. If the Company is unable to timely and appropriately respond to changing consumer preferences and evolving footwear and apparel trends, the names and images of its brands may be impaired. If the Company fails to react appropriately to changes in consumer preferences, consumers may consider its brands’ images to be outdated or associate its brands with styles that are no longer popular. Such failures could result in substantial unsold inventory and adversely affect the Company’s operating results. The Company’s operating results depend on effectively managing inventory levels. The Company’s ability to manage its inventories effectively is an important factor in its operations. Inventory shortages can impede the Company’s ability to meet demand, adversely affect the timing of shipments to customers, and, consequently, diminish brand loyalty and decrease sales. Conversely, excess inventories can result in lower gross margins if the Company lowers prices in order to liquidate excess inventories. In addition, inventory may become obsolete as a result of changes in consumer preferences or otherwise. The Company’s business, results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected if it is unable to effectively manage its inventory. Increases or changes in duties, quotas, tariffs and other trade restrictions could adversely impact the Company’s sales and profitability. All of the Company’s products manufactured overseas and imported into the U.S., the European Union and other countries are subject to customs duties collected by customs authorities. The customs information submitted by the Company is routinely subject to review by customs authorities. Additional U.S. or foreign customs duties, quotas, tariffs, anti-dumping duties, safeguard measures, cargo restrictions to prevent terrorism or other trade restrictions may be imposed on the importation of the Company’s products in the future. The imposition of such costs or restrictions in foreign countries where the Company operates, as well as in countries where its third-party distributors and licensees operate, could result in increases in the cost of the Company’s products generally and could adversely affect its sales and profitability. 15 Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely impact the Company’s business. Foreign currency fluctuations affect the Company’s reported revenue and profitability. Changes in currency exchange rates may impact the Company’s financial results positively or negatively in one period and not another, which may make it difficult to compare its operating results from different periods. Currency exchange rate fluctuations may also adversely impact third parties that manufacture the Company’s products by making their costs of raw materials or other production costs more expensive and more difficult to finance, thereby raising prices for the Company, its distributors and its licensees. The Company’s hedging strategy may not be effective in reducing all risks, and no hedging strategy can completely insulate the Company from foreign exchange risk. The Company does not hedge foreign currency translation rate changes. For a more detailed discussion of the risks related to foreign currency fluctuation, see Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. Significant supplier capacity constraints, supplier production disruptions, supplier quality issues or price increases could increase the Company’s operating costs and adversely impact the Company’s business. The Company currently sources most of its products from third-party manufacturers in foreign countries, predominantly China. As is common in the industry, the Company does not have long-term contracts with its third-party suppliers. There can be no assurance that the Company will not experience difficulties with such suppliers, including reductions in the availability of production capacity, failures to meet production deadlines or increases in manufacturing costs. The Company’s future results will depend partly on its ability to maintain positive working relationships with third-party suppliers. Foreign manufacturing is subject to a number of risks, including work stoppages, transportation delays and interruptions, political instability, foreign currency fluctuations, changing economic conditions, expropriation, nationalization, the imposition of tariffs, import and export controls and other non-tariff barriers and changes in governmental policies. Various factors could significantly interfere with the Company’s ability to source its products, including adverse developments in trade or political relations with China or other countries where it sources its products, or a shift in China’s manufacturing capacity away from footwear and apparel to other industries. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial position and, in particular, on the Company’s ability to meet customer demands and produce its products in a cost-effective manner. The cost of raw materials and services could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s ability to competitively price its products depends on the cost of components, services, labor, equipment and raw materials, including leather and materials used in the production of footwear. The cost of services and materials is subject to change based on availability and market conditions that are difficult to predict. Various conditions, such as diseases affecting the availability of leather, affect the cost of the footwear marketed by the Company. In addition, fuel prices and numerous other factors, such as the possibility of service interruptions at shipping and receiving ports, affect the Company’s shipping costs. Increases in cost for services and materials used in production could have a negative impact on the Company’s results of operations and financial position. The Company purchases raw pigskins for its leathers operations from a single domestic source pursuant to short-term contracts. If this source fails to continue to supply the Company with raw pigskin or supplies the Company with raw pigskin on less favorable terms, the Company’s cost of raw materials for its leathers operations could increase and, as a result, have a negative impact on the Company’s results of operations and financial position. Labor disruptions could adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company’s business depends on its ability to source and distribute products in a timely manner. Labor disputes at or that affect independent factories where the Company’s goods are produced, shipping ports, tanneries, transportation carriers, retail stores or distribution centers create significant risks for the Company’s 16 business, particularly if these disputes result in work slowdowns, lockouts, strikes or other disruptions during its peak manufacturing and importing seasons. Any labor dispute may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, potentially resulting in cancelled orders by customers and unanticipated inventory accumulation, and may negatively impact the Company’s results of operations and financial position. A significant reduction in customer purchases of the Company’s products or failure of customers to pay for the Company’s products in a timely manner could adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company’s financial success is directly related to its customers continuing to purchase its products. The Company does not typically have long-term contracts with its customers. Sales to the Company’s customers are generally on an order-to-order basis and are subject to rights of cancellation and rescheduling by the customers. Failure to fill customers’ orders in a timely manner could harm the Company’s relationships with its customers. Furthermore, if any of the Company’s major customers experiences a significant downturn in its business, or fails to remain committed to the Company’s products or brands, that customers may reduce or discontinue purchases from the Company, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial position. The Company sells its products to customers and extends credit based on an evaluation of each customer’s financial condition. The financial difficulties of a customer could cause the Company to stop doing business with that customer or reduce its business with that customer. The Company’s inability to collect from its customers or a cessation or reduction of sales to certain customers because of credit concerns could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial position. The general trend toward consolidation in retail and specialty retail could lead to fewer customers, customers seeking more favorable price, payment or other terms from the Company and a decrease in the number of stores that carry its products. In addition, changes in the channels of distribution, such as the continued growth of Internet commerce and the trend toward the sale of private label products by major retailers, could have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial position. The Company has been awarded a number of U.S. Department of Defense contracts that include future purchase options for Bates® footwear. The Department of Defense is not obligated to exercise these future purchase options for Bates® footwear or to solicit future footwear awards at levels consistent with historical awards or in a manner in which the Company, as a large business contractor, is eligible to bid. Failure by the Department of Defense to exercise purchase options or the Company’s failure to secure future U.S. Department of Defense contracts could have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial position. Seasonality and weather conditions affect the Company’s business. The Company markets and sells footwear and apparel suited for specific seasons, such as sandals in the summer season and boots in the winter season. If the weather conditions for a particular season vary significantly from those typical for the season, such as an unusually cold and rainy summer, or an unusually warm and dry winter, consumer demand for seasonally appropriate merchandise could be adversely affected. Lower demand for seasonally appropriate merchandise may result in excess inventory, forcing the Company to sell these products at significantly discounted prices, which would adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. Conversely, if weather conditions permit the Company to sell seasonal products early in the season, this may reduce inventory levels needed to meet customers’ needs later in that same season. Consequently, the Company’s results of operations are highly dependent on future weather conditions and its ability to react to changes in weather conditions. Changes in the credit markets could adversely affect the Company’s financial success. Changes in the credit markets could adversely impact the Company’s future results of operations and financial position. If the Company’s third-party distributors, suppliers and retailers are not able to obtain financing on 17 favorable terms, or at all, they may delay or cancel orders for the Company’s products, or fail to meet their obligations to the Company in a timely manner, either of which could adversely impact the Company’s sales, cash flow and operating results. In addition, the lack of available credit or an increase in the cost of credit may significantly impair the Company’s ability to obtain additional credit to finance future expansion plans, or refinance existing credit, on favorable terms, or at all. Unfavorable findings resulting from a government audit could subject the Company to a variety of penalties and sanctions, and could negatively impact its future revenues. The federal government has the right to audit the Company’s performance under its government contracts. If a government audit discovers improper or illegal activities, the Company could be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or debarment from doing business with U.S. federal government agencies. The Company could also suffer serious harm to its reputation if the U.S. government alleges that the Company acted in an improper or illegal manner, whether or not any such allegations have merit. If, as the result of an audit or for any other reason, the Company is suspended or barred from contracting with the federal government generally, or any specific agency, if the Company’s reputation or relationship with government agencies is impaired, or if the government otherwise ceases doing business with the Company or significantly decreases the amount of business it does with the Company, the Company’s revenue and profitability would decrease. The Company is also subject to customs and other audits in various jurisdictions where it operates. Negative audit findings could have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial position. An increase in the Company’s effective tax rate or negative determinations by domestic or foreign tax authorities could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial position. A significant amount of the Company’s earnings are generated by its Canadian, European and Asia Pacific subsidiaries and, to a lesser extent, in jurisdictions that are not subject to income tax and free trade zones where it owns manufacturing operations. As a result, the Company’s income tax expense has historically differed from the tax computed at the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate due to discrete items and because the Company does not provide for U.S. taxes on earnings it considers to be permanently reinvested in foreign operations. The Company’s future effective tax rates could be unfavorably affected by a number of factors including: changes in the tax rates in jurisdictions in which the Company generates income; changes in, or in the interpretation of, tax rules and regulations in the jurisdictions in which the Company does business; decreases in the amount of earnings in countries with low statutory tax rates; or if the Company repatriates foreign earnings for which no provision for U.S. taxes has previously been made. An increase in the Company’s effective tax rate could have a material adverse effect on its after-tax results of operations and financial position. In addition, the Company’s income tax returns are subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service and other domestic and foreign tax authorities. The Company regularly assesses the likelihood of outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for income taxes, and establishes reserves for potential adjustments that may result from these examinations. While the Company believes the estimates used to establish these reserves are reasonable, there can be no assurance that the final determination of any of these examinations will not have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial position. Failure of the Company’s international licensees and distributors to meet sales goals or to make timely payments on amounts owed to the Company could adversely affect the Company’s financial performance. In many international markets, independent licensees or distributors sell the Company’s products. Failure by the Company’s licensees or distributors to meet planned annual sales goals or to make timely payments on amounts owed to the Company could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial position, and it may be difficult and costly to locate an acceptable substitute distributor or licensee. If a 18 change in licensee or distributor becomes necessary, the Company may experience increased costs, as well as substantial disruption and a resulting loss of sales and brand equity in the market where such licensee or distributor operates. The Company’s reputation and competitive position are dependent on its third-party manufacturers, distributors, licensees and others complying with applicable laws and the Company’s ethical standards. The Company requires its independent contract manufacturers, distributors, licensees and others with which it does business to comply with its ethical standards and applicable laws relating to working conditions and other matters. If a party with whom the Company does business is found to have violated the Company’s ethical standards or applicable laws, the Company could receive negative publicity that could damage its reputation and negatively affect the value of its brands. In addition, the Company relies on its licensees to help preserve the value of the Company’s brands. Although the Company attempts to protect its brands through approval rights over design, production processes, quality, packaging, merchandising, distribution, advertising and promotion of its licensed products, the Company cannot completely control the use by its licensees of its licensed brands. The misuse of a brand by a licensee could adversely affect the value of such brand. Global political and economic uncertainty could adversely impact the Company’s business. Concerns regarding acts of terrorism and regional and international conflicts have created significant global economic and political uncertainties that may have material and adverse effects on consumer demand, acceptance of U.S. brands in international markets, foreign sourcing of products, shipping and transportation, product imports and exports, and the sale of products in foreign markets, any of which could adversely affect the Company’s ability to source, manufacture, distribute and sell its products. The Company is subject to risks related to doing business in developing countries and economically volatile areas. These risks include social, political and economic instability; nationalization of the Company’s, or its distributors’ and licensees’, assets and operations by local government authorities; slower payment of invoices; and restrictions on the Company’s ability to repatriate foreign currency or receive payment of amounts owed by third-party distributors and licensees. In addition, commercial laws in these areas may not be well developed or consistently administered, and new laws may be retroactively applied. Any of these risks could have an adverse impact on the Company’s prospects and results of operations in these areas. Concerns regarding the European debt crisis, market perceptions and euro instability could adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and financing. Concerns persist regarding the debt burden of certain countries in the Eurozone, in particular Greece, Italy, Ireland, Portugal and Spain, and their ability to meet future financial obligations, as well as the overall stability of the euro and the suitability of the euro as a single currency given the diverse economic and political circumstances in individual Eurozone countries. These concerns could lead to the re-introduction of individual currencies in one or more Eurozone countries, or, in more extreme circumstances, the possible dissolution of the euro as a currency. Should the euro be dissolved, the legal and contractual consequences for holders of euro-denominated obligations would be determined by laws in effect at that time. These potential developments, or market perceptions concerning these and related issues, could adversely affect the value of the Company’s euro-denominated assets and obligations. In addition, concerns over the effect of this financial crisis on financial institutions in Europe and elsewhere could have an adverse impact on the capital markets generally and, more specifically, on the ability of the Company’s customers, suppliers and lenders to finance their respective businesses. 19 If the Company is unsuccessful in establishing and protecting its intellectual property, the value of its brands could be adversely affected. The Company invests significant resources to develop and protect its intellectual property, and it believes that its trademarks and other intellectual property rights are important to its future success. The Company’s ability to remain competitive is dependent upon its continued ability to secure and protect trademarks, patents and other intellectual property rights in the U.S. and internationally for all of the Company’s lines of business. The Company relies on a combination of trade secret, patent, trademark, copyright and other laws, license agreements and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect its intellectual property rights; however, some countries’ laws do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do U.S. laws. The Company’s business could be significantly harmed if it is not able to protect its intellectual property, or if a court found it to be infringing on other persons’ intellectual property rights. Any intellectual property lawsuits or threatened lawsuits in which the Company is involved, either as a plaintiff or as a defendant, could cost the Company a significant amount of time and money and distract management’s attention from operating the Company’s business. In addition, if the Company does not prevail on any intellectual property claims, then it may have to change its manufacturing processes, products or trade names, any of which could reduce its profitability. In addition, some of the Company’s branded footwear operations are operated pursuant to licensing agreements with third-party trademark owners. These agreements are subject to early termination for breach. Expiration or early termination of any of these license agreements by the licensor could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial position. The Company periodically discovers products that are counterfeit reproductions of its products or that it believes otherwise infringe on its intellectual property rights. The Company has not always been able to stop production and sales of counterfeit products and infringement of its intellectual property rights. The actions the Company takes to establish and protect trademarks, patents and other intellectual property rights both inside and outside of the U.S. may not be adequate to prevent imitation of its products by others. Continued sales of products that infringe the Company’s intellectual property rights could adversely affect its sales, devalue its brands and result in the shift of consumer preference away from its products. The Company’s inability to attract and retain executive managers and other key employees, or the loss of one or more executive managers or other key employees, could adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company depends on its executive management and other key employees. In the footwear, apparel and consumer-direct industries, competition for key executive talent is intense, and the Company’s failure to identify, attract or retain executive managers or other key employees could adversely affect its business. The Company must offer and maintain competitive compensation packages to effectively recruit and retain such individuals. Further, the loss of one or more executive managers or other key employees, or the Company’s failure to successfully implement succession planning, could adversely affect the Company, its results of operations or financial position. Inflationary pressures and other pressures may lead to higher employment and pension costs for the Company. General inflationary pressures, changes in employment laws and regulations, and other factors could increase the Company’s overall employment costs. The Company’s employment costs include costs relating to health care benefits and benefits under its retirement plans, including U.S.-based defined benefit plans. The annual cost of benefits can vary significantly depending on a number of factors, including changes in the assumed or actual rate of return on pension plan assets, a change in the discount rate used to determine the annual service cost related to the defined benefit plans, a change in method or timing of meeting pension funding obligations and the rate of health care cost inflation. Increases in the Company’s overall employment and pension costs could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial position. 20 Disruption of the Company’s information technology systems could adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company’s information technology systems are critical to the operations of its business. Any interruption, unauthorized access, impairment or loss of data integrity or malfunction of these systems could severely impact the Company’s business, including as a result of delays in product fulfillment and reduced efficiency in operations. In addition, costs and potential problems and interruptions associated with the implementation of new or upgraded systems, or with maintenance or adequate support of existing systems, could disrupt or reduce the efficiency of the Company’s operations. If the Company encounters problems affecting its distribution system, its ability to deliver its products to the market could be adversely affected. The Company relies on owned or independently operated distribution facilities to warehouse and ship products to its customers. The Company’s distribution system includes computer-controlled and automated equipment, which may be subject to a number of risks related to security or computer viruses, the proper operation of software and hardware, power interruptions or other system failures. Because substantially all of the Company’s products are distributed from a relatively small number of locations, its operations could also be interrupted by earthquakes, floods, fires or other natural disasters near its distribution centers. The Company maintains business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect the Company from the adverse effects that could be caused by significant disruptions affecting its distribution facilities, such as the long-term loss of customers or an erosion of brand image. In addition, the Company’s distribution capacity is dependent on the timely performance of services by third parties, including the transportation of products to and from the Company’s distribution facilities. If the Company encounters problems affecting its distribution system, its ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve operating efficiencies could be materially adversely affected. Failure to maintain the security of personally identifiable and other information of the Company’s customers and employees could negatively impact its business. In connection with the Company’s business, it collects and retains significant volumes of certain types of personally identifiable and other information pertaining to its customers and employees. Theft, loss, fraudulent use or misuse of customer, employee or the Company’s other data as a result of cybercrime or otherwise could adversely impact the Company’s reputation and could result in significant costs, fines, litigation or regulatory action against the Company. The Company faces risks associated with its growth strategy and acquiring businesses. The Company has expanded its products and markets in part through strategic acquisitions, and it may continue to do so in the future, depending on its ability to identify and successfully pursue suitable acquisition candidates. Acquisitions, including the recent PLG acquisition, involve numerous risks, including risks inherent in entering new markets in which the Company may not have prior experience; potential loss of significant customers or key personnel of the acquired business; managing geographically-remote operations; and potential diversion of management’s attention from other aspects of the Company’s business operations. Acquisitions may also cause the Company to incur debt or result in dilutive issuances of its equity securities, write-offs of goodwill and substantial amortization expenses associated with other intangible assets. The Company may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms that may be necessary to finance future acquisitions, making any such acquisitions more expensive. Any such financing may have onerous terms that restrict the Company’s operations. The Company cannot provide assurance that it will be able to successfully integrate the operations of any acquired businesses into its operations and achieve the expected benefits of any acquisitions. The failure to successfully integrate newly acquired businesses or achieve the expected benefits of strategic acquisitions in the future could have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial position. The Company may not consummate a potential acquisition for a variety of reasons, but it may nonetheless incur material costs in the preliminary stages of such an acquisition that it cannot recover. 21 Maintenance and growth of the Company’s business depends upon the availability of adequate capital. The maintenance and growth of the Company’s business depends on the availability of adequate capital, which in turn depends in large part on cash flow generated by the Company’s business and the availability of equity and debt financing. The Company cannot provide assurance that its operations will generate positive cash flow or that it will be able to obtain equity or debt financing on acceptable terms or at all. Further, the Company cannot provide assurance that it will be able to finance any expansion plans. Expanding the Company’s brands into new markets and expanding its owned consumer-direct operations may be difficult and costly, and unsuccessful efforts to do so may adversely affect the Company’s brands and business. As part of the Company’s growth strategy, it seeks to enhance the positioning of its brands, to extend its brands into complementary product categories, to expand geographically, and to expand its owned consumer-direct operations. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to successfully implement any or all of these growth strategies, which could have an adverse effect on its results of operations and financial position. Part of the future growth of the Company’s owned consumer-direct operations is significantly dependent on the Company’s ability to operate stores in desirable locations at reasonable lease costs. The Company cannot be sure as to when or whether such desirable locations will become available at reasonable costs. Further, if the Company is unable to renew or replace its existing store leases or enter into leases for new stores at attractive locations on favorable terms, or if the Company violates any of the terms of its current leases, its growth and profitability could be harmed. Changes in government regulation may increase the Company’s costs of compliance and failure to comply with government regulations or other standards may adversely affect its brands and business. The Company’s business is affected by changes in government and regulatory policies in the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions. New requirements relating to product safety and testing and new environmental requirements, as well as changes in tax laws, duties, tariffs and quotas, could have a negative impact on the Company’s ability to produce and market footwear at competitive prices. Failure to comply with such regulations, as well as comply with ethical, social, product, labor and environmental standards, could also jeopardize the Company’s reputation and potentially lead to various adverse consumer actions, including boycotts. Any negative publicity about these types of concerns may reduce demand for the Company’s merchandise. Damage to the Company’s reputation or loss of consumer confidence for any of these or other reasons could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild its reputation. The Company’s operations are subject to environmental and workplace safety laws and regulations, and costs or claims related to these requirements could adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company’s operations are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air, soil and water, the management and disposal of solid and hazardous materials and wastes, employee exposure to hazards in the workplace, and the investigation and remediation of contamination resulting from releases of hazardous materials. Failure to comply with legal requirements could result in, among other things, revocation of required licenses, administrative enforcement actions, fines and civil and criminal liability. The Company may incur investigation, remediation or other costs related to releases of hazardous materials or other environmental conditions at its currently or formerly owned or operated properties, regardless of whether such environmental conditions were created by the Company or a third party, such as a prior owner or tenant. The Company has incurred, and continues to incur, costs to address soil and groundwater contamination at some locations. If such issues become more expensive to address, or if new issues arise, they could increase the Company’s expenses, generate negative publicity, or otherwise adversely affect the Company. 22 The disruption, expense and potential liability associated with existing and future litigation against the Company could adversely affect its reputation, financial position or results of operations. The Company is a defendant from time to time in lawsuits and regulatory actions relating to its business. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and regulatory proceedings, the Company cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings. An unfavorable outcome could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial position and results of operations. In addition, regardless of the outcome of any litigation or regulatory proceedings, such proceedings are expensive and may require that the Company devote substantial resources and executive time to the defense of such proceedings. Provisions of Delaware law and the Company’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws could prevent or delay a change in control or change in management that could be beneficial to the Company’s stockholders. Provisions of the Company’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control of the Company. These provisions are intended to protect stockholders’ interests by providing the Company’s Board of Directors a means to attempt to deny coercive takeover attempts or to negotiate with a potential acquirer in order to obtain more favorable terms. Such provisions include a Board of Directors that is classified so that only one-third of directors stand for election each year. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. There are risks, including stock market volatility, inherent in owning the Company’s common stock. The market price and volume of the Company’s common stock have been, and may continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations. These fluctuations may arise from general stock market conditions, the impact of risk factors described in this Item 1A on the Company’s financial position and results of operations, a change in sentiment in the market regarding the Company’s business prospects or other factors, many of which may be outside the Company’s immediate control. Changes in the amounts and frequency of share repurchases or dividends could adversely affect the value of the Company’s common stock. Risks related to the recent acquisition of PLG The Company’s failure to successfully integrate PLG or realize the benefits of the transaction in a timely and cost-efficient manner could adversely affect the Company’s business. The success of the PLG acquisition will depend, in part, on the Company’s ability to fully realize the anticipated benefits and synergies from combining its business and PLG. To realize these anticipated benefits and synergies, the Company must successfully integrate its business with PLG. Any failure to timely realize these anticipated benefits and synergies could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial position. The integration process could result in the following: loss of key employees, suppliers, distributors, other business partners or significant customers; decreases in revenues; information technology systems integration disruptions; increases in taxes or operating or other costs; and/or the disruption of the Company’s business, any of which could limit the Company’s ability to achieve the anticipated benefits and synergies of the acquisition and could have an adverse effect on the Company’s operating results. Integration efforts also require substantial commitments of management’s attention and other resources, which could otherwise have been allocated to different uses that may have been beneficial to the Company. The Company’s indebtedness increased following the completion of the PLG acquisition, which could adversely affect the Company. The Company’s current indebtedness, which is significantly greater than the Company’s indebtedness prior to the PLG acquisition, could adversely affect the Company by decreasing its business flexibility and increasing its borrowing costs. In connection with the acquisition, the Company entered into a credit agreement for a new $1.1 23 billion senior secured credit facility and issued $375 million aggregate principal amount of 6.125% eight year senior notes in a private offering. The new senior secured credit agreement and the indenture governing the senior notes contain customary restrictive covenants imposing operating and financial restrictions on the Company, including restrictions that may limit the Company’s ability to engage in acts that may be in its long-term best interests. These covenants restrict the ability of the Company and certain of its subsidiaries to, among other things: incur or guarantee indebtedness; incur liens; pay dividends or repurchase stock; enter into transactions with affiliates; consummate asset sales, acquisitions or mergers; prepay certain other indebtedness; or make investments. In addition, the restrictive covenants in the senior secured credit agreement require the Company to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests. These restrictive covenants may limit the Company’s ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. The Company’s ability to comply with any financial covenants could be materially affected by events beyond its control, and there can be no assurance that the Company will satisfy any such requirements. If the Company fails to comply with these covenants, it may need to seek waivers or amendments of such covenants, seek alternative or additional sources of financing or reduce its expenditures. The Company may be unable to obtain such waivers, amendments or alternative or additional financing on favorable terms or at all. The Company will incur significant transaction and integration costs as a result of the PLG acquisition. The Company has incurred significant transaction costs specifically attributable to the PLG acquisition, including investment banking, legal and accounting fees and expenses, and other related charges. In addition, the Company has incurred, and expects to continue to incur, significant costs in connection with fully integrating PLG into the Company’s business. Costs incurred in connection with the PLG integration may be higher than expected. These costs could adversely affect the Company’s financial position or results of operations. The Company has made certain assumptions relating to the PLG acquisition in its forecasts that may prove to be materially inaccurate. The Company has made certain assumptions relating to future revenue growth, cost savings, synergies and associated costs of the PLG acquisition. These assumptions may be inaccurate based on the information available to the Company, the failure to realize the expected benefits of the PLG acquisition, higher than expected transaction and integration costs and/or unknown liabilities, as well as general economic and business conditions that may adversely affect the combined company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 