ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our operating results and financial condition have varied in the past and may in the future vary significantly depending on a number of factors. Except for the historical information in this report, the matters contained in this report include forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this report and presented elsewhere by management from time to time. Such factors, among others, may have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations and financial condition. In Item 1A (“Risk Factors”) of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2007, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 8, 2007, we describe risk factors related to the Company. Our updated risk factors are included below in this Item 1A. You should consider carefully the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this annual report on Form 10–K. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. We will need additional funds in the future to continue our operations, but we face uncertainties with respect to our access to capital that could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We will require substantial future capital in order to implement our revised business plan with a renewed focus on research and development activities. As of December 31, 2007, we had $16.5 million of cash and investments on hand, which we believe is sufficient to fund our activities into the fourth quarter of 2008. However, our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including factors associated with: • research and development, including, among other items, preclinical testing and clinical studies, • process development; • obtaining marketing, sales and distribution capabilities; • obtaining regulatory approvals; • retaining employees and consultants; • filing and prosecuting patent applications and enforcing patent claims; • establishing strategic alliances; • manufacturing; and • potential future litigation. We may also need to spend more money than currently expected because we may further change our alter drug development plans, acquire additional drugs or drug candidates or we may misjudge our costs. We have no committed sources of capital and do not know whether additional financing will be available when needed, or, if available, that the terms will be favorable. There can be no assurance that our cash reserves together with any subsequent funding will satisfy our capital requirements. The failure to satisfy our capital requirements will adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our independent registered public accounting firm has expressed their view that there are material uncertainties which cast significant doubt upon our ability to continue as a going concern. The addition of this going concern disclosure may discourage investors from purchasing our stock. We may seek additional funding through strategic alliances, private or public sales of our securities or licensing all or a portion of our technology. Such funding may significantly dilute existing shareholders or may limit our rights to our currently developing technology. There can be no assurance, however, that we can obtain 16 Table of Contents additional funding on reasonable terms, or at all. If we cannot obtain adequate funds, we may need to significantly curtail our product development programs and relinquish rights to our technologies or drug candidates. This may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are entering into a new market area, the contours of which are unclear, the result of which could have a material adverse affect on our business. Our future success depends to a significant extent upon our ability to develop and market and license emerging and new products, including follow-on biologics. The market for follow-on biologics is very uncertain at this time, as it is based on technologies that have not been formally reviewed or accepted by the FDA or other regulatory authorities. It is possible that the FDA’s review and acceptance of our new products may take time and resources, require independent third-party analysis or not be accepted by the FDA or other regulatory authorities. Moreover, consumer demand for new product categories such as follow-on biologics is inherently uncertain. There can be no assurance that we will successfully develop and market follow-on biologics, or that we will ever achieve significant revenues or operating income from follow-on biologics, or if significant revenues are achieved, that they can be sustained. The failure of our follow-on biologics to be accepted by consumers and achieve revenues could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. If the FDA does not establish specific guidelines or arrive at a consensus regarding the scientific analyses required for characterizing follow-on biologics, and if the U.S. Congress does not take action to create an abbreviated regulatory pathway for follow-on biologics, our business would be adversely affected. The regulatory climate for follow-on biologics remains unclear. Although there has been some legislative activity in the past, there is currently no established statutory or regulatory pathway for approval of follow-on biologics. The FDA has approved the majority of protein products under the Public Health Service Act, or PHS, through the use of biologic license applications, of BLAs. Unlike drugs approved through the submission of NDAs under section 505 of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or the FDCA, there is no provision in the PHS for an abbreviated BLA approval pathway, and the FDA has stated that it does not believe it has the authority to rely on prior BLA approvals or their underlying data to approve a follow-on biologic. Moreover, even for proteins initially approved as NDAs there is uncertainty as to what data the FDA may deem necessary to demonstrate the sameness required for approval of an ANDA under section 505(j) of the FDCA. In addition, there has been opposition to the FDA’s use of section 505(b)(2), which allows an applicant to rely on information from published scientific literature and/or a prior approval of a similar drug, to approve a follow-on biologic approved under section 505 of the FDCA. Although the FDA has previously stated its intention to draft guidance that is broadly applicable to follow-on biologics, the agency has not yet issued such guidance to date and may never do so. Protracted timelines and failure of the FDA to establish standards for approval of follow-on biologics or of the U.S. Congress to enact legislation establishing an abbreviated pathway for approval for follow-on biologics could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial position. The Italian Health Authority may refuse to pay for IPLEX used by patients in Italy under our Expanded Access Program, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. At present the Italian Health Authority approves all drug payments for IPLEX used by Italian patients with ALS in Italy as part of our Expanded Access Program. Should the Italian Health Authority decide to stop approving IPLEX for ALS it would significantly affect our cash position and could require us to raise funds sooner than anticipated, which may only be available to us on less than favorable terms. 17 Table of Contents We have not completed the research and development stage of any of our product candidates. If we are unable to successfully commercialize our products, it will materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our long-term viability and growth depend on the successful commercialization of products which lead to revenue and profits. Pharmaceutical product development is an expensive, high risk, lengthy, complicated, resource intensive process. In order to succeed, among other things, we must be able to: • identify potential drug product candidates; • design and conduct appropriate laboratory, preclinical and other research; • submit for and receive regulatory approval to perform clinical studies; • design and conduct appropriate preclinical and clinical studies according to good laboratory and good clinical practices; • select and recruit clinical investigators; • select and recruit subjects for our studies; • collect, analyze and correctly interpret the data from our studies; • submit for and receive regulatory approvals for marketing; and • manufacture the drug product candidates according to cGMP. The development program with respect to any given product will take many years and thus delay our ability to generate profits. In addition, potential products that appear promising at early stages of development may fail for a number of reasons, including the possibility that the products may require significant additional testing or turn out to be unsafe, ineffective, too difficult or expensive to develop or manufacture, too difficult to administer, or unstable. In order to conduct the development programs for our products we must, among other things, be able to successfully: • raise sufficient money and pay for the development of the products • attract and retain appropriate personnel; and • develop relationships with other companies to perform various development activities that we are unable to perform. Even if we are successful in developing and obtaining approval for our product candidates, there are numerous circumstances that could prevent the successful commercialization of the products such as: • the regulatory approvals of our products are delayed or we are required to conduct further research and development of our products prior to receiving regulatory approval; • we are unable to build a sales and marketing group to successfully launch and sell our products; • we are unable to raise the additional funds needed to successfully develop and commercialize our products or acquire additional products for growth; • we are required to allocate available funds to litigation matters; • we are unable to manufacture the quantity of product needed in accordance with current good manufacturing practices to meet market demand, or at all; • our product is determined to be ineffective or unsafe following approval and is removed from the market or we are required to perform additional research and development to further prove the safety and effectiveness of the product before re-entry into the market; 18 Table of Contents • competition from other products or technologies prevents or reduces market acceptance of our products; • we do not have and cannot obtain the intellectual property rights needed to manufacture or market our products without infringing on another company’s patents; • we are unsuccessful in defending against patent infringement claims being brought against us our products or technologies; or • we are unable to obtain reimbursement for our product or such reimbursement may be less than is necessary to produce a reasonable profit. Our growth strategy includes the commercialization of more than one product. We may not be able to identify and acquire complementary products, businesses or technologies and if acquired or licensed, they might not improve our business, financial condition or results of operations. The failure to successfully acquire, develop and commercialize products will adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have a history of operating losses and an expectation that we will generate operating losses for the foreseeable future, we may not achieve profitability for some time, if at all. We are a development stage company with expertise in protein recombinant drug development. We have incurred losses each year of operation and we expect to continue incurring operating losses for the foreseeable future. The process of developing and commercializing our products requires significant pre-clinical testing and clinical trials as well as regulatory approvals for commercialization and marketing before we are allowed to begin product sales. In addition, commercialization of our drug candidates requires us to establish a sales and marketing organization and contractual relationships to enable product manufacturing and other related activities. We expect that these activities, together with our general and administrative expenses, will result in substantial operating losses for the foreseeable future. As of December 31, 2007, our accumulated deficit was $331 million and for the year ended December 31, 2007 our consolidated net loss was $20 million. The Nasdaq Capital Market may cease to list our common stock which may cause the value of an investment in our common stock to substantially decrease. We may be unable to meet the continued listing requirements of the Nasdaq Capital Market in the future. To maintain the listing of our common stock, we are required, among other things, to maintain a daily closing bid price per share of $1.00. In a letter dated June 13, 2007, while our common stock was still listed on the Nasdaq Global Market, the Nasdaq Listing Qualification Staff (the “Staff”) notified us of our failure to comply with Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5) because our shares of common stock had failed to close at a price of at least $1.00 per share for thirty consecutive business days (the “Minimum Bid Price Rule”). We were afforded one hundred eighty days to regain compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Rule in accordance with Marketplace Rule 4803(a). By letter (the “Staff Determination”) dated December 20, 2007, the Staff notified us that we had failed to regain compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Rule and that our shares of common stock would be delisted from the Nasdaq Stock Market on December 31, 2007 if we did not transfer listing to the Nasdaq Capital Market or appeal the Staff Determination to a Nasdaq Hearings Panel (the “Panel”). By letter dated December 26, 2007, we requested a hearing with respect to its continued listing on the Nasdaq Global Market, as a result of which Nasdaq stayed the suspension and delisting of our common stock pending the determination of the Panel. On January 24, 2008 we attended a hearing with the Panel and on February 27, 2008 we received a determination letter from the Panel notifying us that our stock would be transferred to the Nasdaq Capital Market before the open of the market on February 29, 2008, which has since transpired. We have until June 12, 2008 to regain compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Rule. If we do not regain compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Rule by June 12, 2008, Nasdaq will provide written notification that our common stock will be delisted for the Nasdaq Capital Market. Delisting of our common stock from the Nasdaq Capital Market could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and could limit the liquidity of our common stock and therefore could cause the value of an investment in our common stock to decrease. 19 Table of Contents In order to regain compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Rule we may be required to implement a reverse stock split, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Should we not regain compliance with the Nasdaq Minimum Bid Price Rule before June 12, 2008, we may be required to implement a reverse stock split in order for our shares of common stock to remain listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market, which could be viewed negatively by the market and have an adverse affect on our stock price. If our products fail in pre-clinical or clinical trials or if we cannot enroll enough patients to complete our clinical trials, such failure may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In order to sell our products, we must receive regulatory approval. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any of our products under development, we must demonstrate through pre-clinical studies and clinical trials that the product is safe and effective for use in each target indication. In addition, the results from pre-clinical testing and early clinical trials may not be predictive of results obtained in later clinical trials. There can be no assurance that our clinical trials will demonstrate sufficient safety and effectiveness to obtain regulatory approvals for our products still in development. A number of companies in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries have suffered significant setbacks in late stage clinical trials even after promising results in early stage development. If our developmental products fail in pre-clinical or clinical trials, it will have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The completion rate of clinical studies of our products is dependent on, among other factors, the patient enrollment rate. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including: • investigator identification and recruitment; • regulatory approvals to initiate study sites; • patient population size; • the nature of the protocol to be used in the trial; • patient proximity to clinical sites; • eligibility criteria for the study; and • competition from other companies’ clinical studies for the same patient population. We believe our planned procedures for enrolling patients are appropriate; however, delays in patient enrollment would increase costs and delay ultimate commercialization and sales, if any, of our products. Such delays could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be required to conduct broad, long-term clinical trials to address concerns that the long-term use of one of our leading products, IPLEX, in broader chronic indications might increase the risk of diabetic retinopathy. This may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In previously published clinical trials of rhIGF-1, concerns were raised that long-term use of rhIGF-1 might lead to an increased incidence and/or severity of retinopathy, a disease of new blood vessel growth in the eye which results in loss of vision. Because IPLEX contains rhIGF-I, the FDA may require us to conduct broad, long-term clinical trials to address these concerns prior to receiving FDA approval for broad chronic indications such as diabetes. These clinical trials would be expensive and could delay our commercialization of IPLEX for these broader chronic indications. Adverse results in these trials could prevent our commercialization of IPLEX for broad chronic indications or could jeopardize existing development in other indications. 20 Table of Contents We cannot be certain that we will obtain regulatory approvals in the United States, European Union or other countries. The failure to obtain such approvals may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are required to obtain various regulatory approvals prior to studying our products in humans and then again before we market and distribute our products. The regulatory review and approval process required to perform a clinical study in both the United States and European Union includes evaluation of preclinical studies and clinical studies, as well as the evaluation of our manufacturing process. This process is complex, lengthy, expensive, resource intensive and uncertain. Securing regulatory approval to market our products also requires the submission of extensive preclinical and clinical data, manufacturing information regarding the process and facility, scientific data characterizing our product and other supporting data to the regulatory authorities in order to establish its safety and effectiveness. This process is also complex, lengthy, expensive, resource intensive and uncertain. We have limited experience in filing and pursuing applications necessary to gain these regulatory approvals. Data submitted to the regulators is subject to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory agency approval. We may also encounter delays or rejections based on changes in regulatory agency policies during the period in which we develop a product and the period required for review of any application for regulatory agency approval of a particular product. Delays in obtaining regulatory agency approvals could adversely affect the development and marketing of any drugs that we or our collaborative partners develop. Such delays could impose costly procedures on our collaborative partners’ or our activities, diminish any competitive advantages that our collaborative partners or we may attain and adversely affect our ability to receive royalties, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In order to market our products outside of the United States and European Union, our corporate partners and we must comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries. The approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in these other territories might differ from that required to obtain FDA or European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products, or EMEA, approval. The regulatory approval process in these other territories includes at least all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA and EMEA approval detailed above. Approval by the FDA or the EMEA does not ensure approval by the regulatory authorities of other countries. The failure to obtain such approvals may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of our products to meet our supply and clinical studies obligations, our business, financial condition and results of operation may be adversely affected. We intend to manufacture IPLEX and rhIGFBP-3 clinical drug substance and perform the majority of analytical testing at our manufacturing facility in Boulder, Colorado, and utilize contract manufacturers for sterile filtering, filling, finishing, labeling and some analytical testing. We intend to manufacture INSM-18 with contract manufacturers. We also intend to manufacture our follow-on biologics drug candidates at our Boulder Colorado. facility. If we enter into a partnership for FOB’s the partnership may require the Boulder Colorado. facility to be dedicated to the manufacture of FOB’s which would have a materially adverse impact on our proprietary protein platform. The available capacity for the manufacture and testing of recombinant proteins that comprise our products is limited. A shutdown or disruption at our manufacturing facility whether due to technical, regulatory, force majeure, or other problems, resulting in an interruption in supply of these materials, could delay our development activities and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. The number of contract manufacturers with the expertise and facilities to manufacture our products is limited and it would take a significant amount of time and resources to arrange for alternative manufacturers. 21 Table of Contents Even if we were to find alternative manufacturers, the prices they charge may not be commercially reasonable or may only be able to provide our products in a quantity that is less than our needs. Furthermore, if we need to change to other contract manufacturers, we would also need to transfer to these new manufacturers and validate the processes and analytical methods necessary for the production and testing of our products. Any of these factors could lead to (1) the delay or suspension of our clinical studies, regulatory submissions and regulatory approvals, or (2) higher costs of production, or (3) our failure to effectively commercialize our products. Our manufacturing facility and the facilities of contract manufacturers must undergo inspections by the FDA and the EMEA for compliance with cGMP regulations. In the event these facilities do not continue to receive satisfactory cGMP inspections for the manufacture and testing of our products, we may need to fund additional modifications to our manufacturing or testing processes, conduct additional validation studies, or find alternative manufacturing and testing facilities, any of which would result in significant cost to us as well as a significant delay of up to several years in the development of our products. In addition, our manufacturing facility and the facilities of any contract manufacturer we may utilize, will be subject to ongoing periodic inspection by the FDA, the EMEA and other foreign agencies for compliance with cGMP regulations and similar foreign standards. We have limited control over contract manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards which could limit our production of final drug product. If our products fail to achieve market acceptance for any reason, such failure may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that any of our product candidates if approved for marketing, will achieve market acceptance. If our product candidates, once approved, do not receive market acceptance for any reason, it will adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The degree of market acceptance of any drugs we develop will depend on a number of factors, including: • the establishment and demonstration in the medical community of the clinical efficacy and safety of our products; • our products’ potential advantages over existing and future treatment methods; • the price of our products; and • reimbursement policies of government and third-party payers, including hospitals and insurance companies. For example, even after we obtain regulatory approval to sell our products, physicians and healthcare payers could conclude that our products are not safe and effective and physicians could choose not to use them to treat patients. Our competitors may also develop new technologies or products which are more effective or less costly, or that seem more cost-effective than our products. In addition, legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceuticals may change in ways adverse to us. While we cannot predict the likelihood of any legislative or regulatory proposals, if the government or an agency adopts such proposals, they could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent upon retaining and attracting key personnel and others, the loss of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend highly on the principal members of our scientific and management staff, the loss of whose services might significantly delay or prevent the achievement of research, development or business objectives and would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain qualified management, scientific and medical personnel, and on our ability to develop and maintain important relationships with commercial partners, leading research institutions and key distributors. We face intense competition for such personnel and relationships. We cannot assure that we will attract and retain such persons or maintain such relationships. 22 Table of Contents We expect that our potential expansion into areas and activities requiring additional expertise, such as further clinical trials, governmental approvals, manufacturing, sales, marketing and distribution will place additional requirements on our management, operational and financial resources. We expect these demands will require an increase in management and scientific personnel and the development of additional expertise by existing management personnel. The failure to attract and retain such personnel or to develop such expertise could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on collaborative relationships for our success. If we are unable to form these relationships it could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently rely and may in the future rely on a number of significant collaborative relationships for intellectual property rights, research funding, manufacturing, analytical services, preclinical development, clinical development and sales and marketing. For example, almost all of our clinical trial work is done in collaboration with academic institutions and we have licensed intellectual property to permit the development, manufacture and commercialization of our products. Reliance on collaborative relationships poses a number of risks, including the following: • we may not be able to effectively control whether our corporate partners will devote sufficient resources to our programs or products; • disputes may arise in the future with respect to the ownership of rights to technology developed with, licensed to or licensed from corporate partners; • disagreements with corporate partners could result in loss of intellectual property rights, delay or terminate the research, development or commercialization of product candidates or result in litigation or arbitration; • contracts with our corporate partners may fail to provide sufficient protection of our intellectual property; • we may have difficulty enforcing the contracts if one of these partners fails to perform; • corporate partners have considerable discretion in electing whether to pursue the development of any additional products and may pursue technologies or products either on their own or in collaboration with our competitors; and • corporate partners with marketing rights may choose to devote fewer resources to the marketing of our products than they do to products of their own development. Given these risks, a great deal of uncertainty exists regarding the success of our current and future collaborative efforts. Failure of these efforts could delay, impair or prevent the development and commercialization of our products and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our growth strategy includes acquiring complementary businesses or technologies that may not be available or, if available and purchased or licensed, might not improve our business, financial condition or results of operations. As part of our business strategy, we expect to pursue acquisitions and in-license new products and technologies. Nonetheless, we cannot assure you that we will identify suitable acquisitions or products or that we can make such acquisitions or enter into such license agreements on acceptable terms. If we acquire businesses, those businesses may require substantial capital, and we cannot provide assurance that such capital will be available in sufficient amounts or that financing will be available in amounts and on terms that we deem acceptable. Furthermore, the integration of acquired businesses may result in unforeseen difficulties that require a disproportionate amount of management’s attention and our other resources. Finally, we cannot provide assurance that we will achieve productive synergies and efficiencies from these acquisitions. 23 Table of Contents We intend to conduct proprietary development programs with collaborators, and any conflicts with them could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We intend to enter into collaborative relationships which will involve our collaborators conducting proprietary development programs. Any conflict with our collaborators could reduce our ability to obtain future collaboration agreements and negatively influence our relationship with existing collaborators, which could reduce our revenues and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, disagreements with our collaborators could develop over rights to our intellectual property. Certain of our collaborators could also be or become competitors. Our collaborators could harm our product development efforts by: • developing competing products; • precluding us from entering into collaborations with their competitors; • failing to obtain regulatory approvals; • terminating their agreements with us prematurely; or • failing to devote sufficient resources to the development and commercialization of products. We may not accurately predict the protection afforded by our patents and proprietary technology and if our predictions are wrong, this may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain patent protection for our products, prevent third parties from infringing on our patents, and refrain from infringing on the patents of others, both domestically and internationally. Our patent positions are highly uncertain, and any future patents we receive for our potential products will be subject to this uncertainty, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We intend to actively pursue patent protection for products resulting from our research and development activities that have significant potential commercial value. Nevertheless, it is possible that, in the patent application process, certain claims may be rejected or achieve such limited allowance that the value of the patents would be diminished. Further, there can be no assurance that any patents obtained will afford us adequate protection. In addition, any patents we procure may require cooperation with companies holding related patents. We may have difficulty forming a successful relationship with these other companies. Third parties may claim that we are infringing upon or have misappropriated their proprietary rights. Various third parties have obtained, and are attempting to obtain, patent protection relating to the production and use of our approved product and product candidates. We can give no assurances as to whether any issued patents, or patents that may later issue to third parties, would affect our contemplated commercialization of IPLEX or any other product. We can give no assurances that such patents can be avoided, invalidated or licensed. With respect to any infringement claim asserted by a third party, we can give no assurances that we will be successful in the litigation or that such litigation would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. In the event of a successful claim against us for infringement or misappropriation of a third party’s proprietary rights, we may be required to: • pay damages, including up to treble damages, and the other party’s attorneys’ fees, which may be substantial; • cease the development, manufacture, marketing and sale of products or use of processes that infringe the proprietary rights of others; • expend significant resources to redesign our products or our processes so that they do not infringe the proprietary rights of others, which may not be possible; 24 Table of Contents • redesign our products or processes to avoid third party proprietary rights, we may suffer significant regulatory delays associated with conducting additional clinical trials or other steps to obtain regulatory approval; and • obtain one or more licenses arising out of a settlement of litigation or otherwise from third parties for the infringed proprietary rights, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Furthermore, litigation with any third party, even if the allegations are without merit, would likely be expensive and time-consuming and divert management’s attention. Any conclusions we may have reached regarding non-infringement and invalidity are based in part on a review of publicly available databases and other information. There may be information not available to us or otherwise not reviewed by us that might change our conclusions. Moreover, as described above, the scope and validity of patent claims are determined based on many facts and circumstances, and in a litigation, a court may reach a different conclusion on any given patent claim than the conclusions that we have reached. In addition, we may have to undertake costly litigation to enforce any patents issued or licensed to us or to determine the scope and validity of another party’s proprietary rights. We can give no assurances that a court of competent jurisdiction would validate our issued or licensed patents. An adverse outcome in litigation or an interference or other proceeding in a court or patent office could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive environment and if we are unable to adapt to our environment, we may be unable to compete successfully, which will materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Biotechnology and related pharmaceutical technology have undergone and should continue to experience rapid and significant change. We expect that the technologies associated with biotechnology research and development will continue to develop rapidly. Our future success will depend in large part on our ability to maintain a competitive position with respect to these technologies. Any compounds, products or processes that we develop may become obsolete before we recover any expenses incurred in connection with their development. Rapid technological change could make our products obsolete, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We expect that successful competition will depend, among other things, on product efficacy, safety, reliability, availability, timing and scope of regulatory approval and price. Specifically, we expect crucial factors will include the relative speed with which we can develop products, complete the clinical testing and regulatory approval processes and supply commercial quantities of the product to the market. We expect competition to increase as technological advances are made and commercial applications broaden. In each of our potential product areas, we face substantial competition from large pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other companies, universities and research institutions. Relative to us, most of these entities have substantially greater capital resources, research and development staffs, facilities and experience in conducting clinical studies and obtaining regulatory approvals, as well as in manufacturing and marketing pharmaceutical products. Many of our competitors may achieve product commercialization or patent protection earlier than us. Furthermore, we believe that our competitors have used, and may continue to use, litigation to gain a competitive advantage. Finally, our competitors may use different technologies or approaches to the development of products similar to the products we are seeking to develop. Competitors could develop and gain FDA approval of products containing rhIGF-1, which could adversely affect our competitive position in all indications where we are currently developing IPLEX. rhIGF-1 manufactured by other parties may be approved for use in other indications in the United States in the future, including MMD and HARS. In the event there are other rhIGF-1 products approved by the FDA to 25 Table of Contents treat indications other than those covered by IPLEX, physicians may elect to prescribe a competitor’s product containing rhIGF-1 to treat the indications for which IPLEX has received and may receive approval. This is commonly referred to as off-label use. While under FDA regulations a competitor is not allowed to promote off-label use of its product, the FDA does not regulate the practice of medicine and as a result cannot direct physicians as to what product containing rhIGF-1 to prescribe to their patients. As a result, we would have limited ability to prevent off-label use of a competitor’s product containing rhIGF-1 to treat any diseases for which we have received FDA approval, even if it violates our patents and we have orphan drug exclusivity for the use of rhIGF-1 to treat such diseases. If another party obtains orphan drug exclusivity for a product that is essentially the same as a product we are developing in a particular indication, we may be precluded or delayed from commercializing the product in that indication. This may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan drug designation to drugs intended to treat a rare disease or condition, which is generally a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States. The company that obtains the first marketing approval from the FDA for a designated orphan drug for a rare disease receives marketing exclusivity for use of that drug for the designated condition for a period of seven years. Similar laws exist in EU. If a competitor obtains approval of the same drug for the same indication or disease before us, we would be blocked from obtaining approval for our product for seven or more years, unless our product can be shown to be clinically superior. In addition, more than one drug may be approved by the FDA for the same orphan indication or disease as long as the drugs are different drugs. As a result, even if our product is approved and receives orphan drug exclusivity, as in the case of our drug IPLEX, the FDA can still approve different drugs for use in treating the same indication or disease covered by our product, which could create a more competitive market for us. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. Disclosure of this information may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In order to protect our proprietary technology and processes, we rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our corporate partners, employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators and sponsored researchers and other advisors. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover trade secrets and proprietary information. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business, financial condition and results of operations. Our research, development and manufacturing activities involve the use of hazardous materials, which could expose us to damages that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our research, development and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including hazardous chemicals and radioactive materials. We believe that our procedures for handling hazardous materials comply with federal and state regulations; however, there can be no assurance that accidental injury or contamination from these materials will not occur. We currently maintain a general liability insurance policy that has a $1.0 million per claim limit and also caps aggregate claims at $2.0 million. In addition, we have an umbrella insurance policy that covers up to $2.0 million of liability in excess of the general liability policy’s $2.0 million limit. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for damages, which would likely exceed our insurance coverage and other available financial resources. This liability would limit our ability to commercialize IPLEX and develop other products which would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 26 Table of Contents We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials and waste products. These laws and regulations may require us to incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations in the future that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to product liability claims if our products harm people, and we have only limited product liability insurance. The manufacture and sale of human therapeutic products involve an inherent risk of product liability claims and associated adverse publicity. We currently have only limited product liability insurance for clinical studies and no commercial product liability insurance. We do not know if we will be able to maintain existing or obtain additional product liability insurance on acceptable terms or with adequate coverage against potential liabilities. This type of insurance is expensive and may not be available on acceptable terms. If we are unable to obtain or maintain sufficient insurance coverage on reasonable terms or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims, we may be unable to commercialize our products. A successful product liability claim brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage, if any, may require us to pay substantial amounts. This could have a material adverse effect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our settlement agreement with Tercica and Genentech was terminated, the Consent order from the court would be reinstated, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As part of our settlement agreement with Genentech and Tercica, we entered into a Consent Judgment and Permanent Injunction in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. If our settlement agreement with Tercica and Genentech is terminated, the Consent Judgment and Permanent Injunction against us will survive termination, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations as we would no longer have a license to manufacture IPLEX using the present process without incurring significant penalties and royalties. Conversion of our outstanding notes and exercise of warrants and options issued by us will significantly dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders. As of February 28, 2008, the convertible notes issued by us in March 2005 and the warrants issued by us in May 2007, March 2005, November 2004 and July 2003 were convertible into and exercisable for up to approximately 15.8 million shares of our common stock, representing approximately 13% of our then outstanding common stock. As of February 28, 2008, our outstanding options to our employees, officers, directors and consultants were exercisable for up to 5.2 million shares of our common stock, representing approximately an additional four percent of our then outstanding common stock. The conversion or exercise of some or all of our convertible notes, warrants and options will significantly dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion or exercise could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. The market price of our stock has been and may continue to be highly volatile, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the ticker symbol “INSM.” The market price of our stock has been and may continue to be highly volatile, and announcements by us or by third parties may have a significant impact on our stock price. These announcements may include: • our listing status on the Nasdaq Capital Market; 27 Table of Contents • results of our clinical studies and preclinical studies, or those of our corporate partners or our competitors; • our operating results; • developments in our relationships with corporate partners; • developments affecting our corporate partners; • negative regulatory action or regulatory approval with respect to our announcement or our competitors’ announcements of new products, • government regulation, reimbursement changes and governmental investigation or audits related to us or to our products, • developments related to our patents or other proprietary rights or those of our competitors; • changes in the position of securities analysts with respect to our stock; and • operating results below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, which have particularly affected the market prices for emerging biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies, and which have often been unrelated to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have often instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our shareholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. The lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management. Future sales by existing shareholders may lower the price of our common stock, which could result in losses to our shareholders. Future sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the public market, or the possibility of such sales occurring, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock or our future ability to raise capital through an offering of equity securities. Substantially all of our common stock is freely tradable in the public market without restriction under the Securities Act, unless these shares are held by “affiliates” of our company, as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. We have never paid dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our businesses and, therefore, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Certain provisions of Virginia law, our articles of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws, and our Rights Plan make a hostile takeover by a third party difficult. Certain provisions of Virginia law and our articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could hamper a third party’s acquisition of, or discourage a third party from attempting to acquire control of us. The conditions could also limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions include: • a provision allowing us to issue preferred stock with rights senior to those of the common stock without any further vote or action by the holders of the common stock. The issuance of preferred stock could decrease the amount of earnings and assets available for distribution to the holders of common stock or could adversely affect the rights and powers, including voting rights, of the holders of the common stock. In certain circumstances, such issuance could have the effect of decreasing the market price of the common stock; 28 Table of Contents • the existence of a staggered board of directors in which there are three classes of directors serving staggered three-year terms, thus expanding the time required to change the composition of a majority of directors and perhaps discouraging someone from making an acquisition proposal for us; • the amended and restated bylaws’ requirement that shareholders provide advance notice when nominating our directors; • the inability of shareholders to convene a shareholders’ meeting without the chairman of the board, the president or a majority of the board of directors first calling the meeting; and • the application of Virginia law prohibiting us from entering into a business combination with the beneficial owner of 10% or more of our outstanding voting stock for a period of three years after the 10% or greater owner first reached that level of stock ownership, unless we meet certain criteria. In addition, in May 2001, our board of directors approved the adoption of a Rights Plan under which shareholders received rights to purchase new shares of preferred stock if a person or group acquires 15% or more of our common stock. These provisions are intended to discourage acquisitions of 15% or more of our common stock without negotiations with the board. The rights trade with our common stock, unless and until they are separated upon the occurrence of certain future events. Our board of directors may redeem the rights at a price of $0.01 per right prior to the time a person acquires 15% or more of our common stock. 