1A Risk Factors 24 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 37 Item 2 Properties 37 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 38 Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 38 Executive Officers of the Registrant 39 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 41 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 44 Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 47 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 61 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 62 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 84 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 84 Item 9B Other Information 86 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 87 Item 11 Executive Compensation 87 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 87 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 87 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 87 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule 88 SIGNATURES 93 Table of Contents PART I CAUTIONARY NOTICE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are not statements of historical fact should be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the “Act”). In addition, certain statements in our future filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), in press releases, and in oral and written statements made by us or with our approval that are not statements of historical fact constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Act. Examples of forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding: proposed new programs; regulatory developments; projections, predictions, expectations, estimates or forecasts as to our business, financial and operational results and future economic performance; and statements of management’s goals and objectives and other similar expressions concerning matters that are not historical facts. Words such as “may,” “should,” “could,” “would,” “predicts,” “potential,” “continue,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “future,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “estimates,” and similar expressions, as well as statements in future tense, are intended to identify forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those in such statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from those discussed in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those described in “Item 1A—Risk Factors,” below. The performance of our business and our securities may be adversely affected by these factors and by other factors common to other businesses and investments, or to the general economy. Forward-looking statements are qualified by some or all of these risk factors. Therefore, you should consider these risk factors with caution and form your own critical and independent conclusions about the likely effect of these risk factors on our future performance. Such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which the statements are made, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events or circumstances. Readers should carefully review the disclosures and the risk factors described in this and other documents we file from time to time with the SEC, including our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K to be filed by the Company in fiscal 2010. Item 1. Business Overview We are an exclusively online postsecondary education services company. Through our wholly-owned subsidiary, Capella University, we offer a variety of doctoral, master’s and bachelor’s programs in the following markets: behavioral health and human services, business management and technology, education and public service leadership. We focus on master’s and doctoral degrees, with over 80% of our learners enrolled in a master’s or doctoral degree program. Our academic offerings combine competency-based curricula with the convenience and flexibility of an online learning format. We design our offerings to help working adult learners develop specific competencies that they can employ in their workplace. We actively support and engage with our learners throughout their programs to enhance their prospects for successful program completion. We believe that the relevance and convenience of our programs provide a quality educational experience for our learners. At December 31, 2009, we offered over 1,050 online courses and 36 academic programs with 124 specializations to approximately 34,000 learners. In 2009, our end-of-year enrollment and revenues grew by approximately 26.4% and 22.9%, respectively, as compared to 2008. To date, our growth has resulted from a combination of: increased demand for our programs; expansion of our program and degree offerings; our ability to obtain specialized accreditations, professional licensures and endorsements for certain programs we offer; establishment of relationships with large corporate employers, healthcare institutions, the U.S. Armed Forces and various community colleges; and a growing acceptance of online education. We seek to achieve growth in a manner that assures continued improvement in 1 Table of Contents educational quality and learner success while maintaining compliance with regulatory standards. Additionally, we seek to enhance our operational and financial performance by tracking and analyzing quantifiable metrics that provide insight as to the effectiveness of our business and educational processes. Our History We were founded in 1991 as a Minnesota corporation. In 1993, we established our wholly-owned university subsidiary, then named The Graduate School of America, to offer doctoral and master’s degrees through distance learning programs in management, education, human services and interdisciplinary studies. In 1995, we launched our online format for delivery of our doctoral and master’s degree programs over the Internet. Through our early entry into online education, we believe we have gained extensive experience in the delivery of effective online programs. In 1997, our university subsidiary received accreditation from the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools (later renamed The Higher Learning Commission of the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools). In 1998, we began the expansion of our original portfolio of academic programs by introducing doctoral and master’s degrees in psychology and a master of business administration degree. In 1999, to expand the reach of our brand in anticipation of moving into the bachelor’s degree market, we changed our name to Capella Education Company and the name of our university to Capella University. In 2000, we introduced our bachelor’s degree completion program in information technology, which provided instruction for the last two years of a four-year bachelor’s degree. In 2004, we expanded our addressable market through the introduction of our four-year bachelor’s degree programs in business administration and information technology as well as the introduction of three master’s-level specializations in education targeted at K-12 teachers. In November 2006, we completed an initial public offering of our common stock. In May 2007, we completed a follow-on offering of our common stock. Additionally, during 2007, we introduced six new programs and 31 new specializations, including our first ever specializations in Public Safety and nine new PhD specializations. In 2008, we introduced three new programs and 10 new specializations. In 2009, we launched 10 new degree programs and 16 new specializations, including the addition of doctoral, master’s and bachelor’s level programs within the Public Service Leadership market. We implemented an enterprise resource planning (ERP) system from 2006 through 2008 in which the final module was implemented in July 2008. During the first half of 2008, we commenced and completed a $50.0 million stock repurchase program, and during the third quarter of 2008 we commenced an additional stock repurchase program for up to $60.0 million of our common stock. As of December 31, 2009, we had repurchased 0.4 million shares under this program for total consideration of $23.0 million. Industry The U.S. market for postsecondary education is a large, growing market. According to a 2009 publication by the National Center for Education Statistics (NCES), the number of postsecondary learners enrolled as of the Fall of 2007 was 18.2 million and is expected to grow to 20.8 million by 2017. We believe the forecasted growth in postsecondary enrollment is a result of a number of factors, including the significant and measurable personal income premium that is attributable to postsecondary education, and an increase in demand by employers for professional and skilled workers. According to the U.S. Census Bureau’s Current Population Survey 2007-2008 American Community Survey report, 65.2% of adults (persons 25 years of age or older) did not possess a postsecondary degree in 2008. Of the 18.2 million postsecondary learners enrolled as of the Fall of 2007, the NCES estimated that 7.0 million were adults, representing 39% of total enrollment. We expect that adults will continue to represent a large, growing segment of the postsecondary education market as they seek additional education to secure better jobs, or to remain competitive or advance in their current careers. 2 Table of Contents According to Eduventures, an education consulting and research firm, the revenue growth rate in fully-online education exceeded the revenue growth rate in the for-profit segment of the postsecondary market from 2001 to 2006. We believe that the higher growth in demand for fully-online education is largely attributable to the flexibility and convenience of this instructional format, as well as the growing recognition of its educational efficacy. Additionally, in 2009, Eduventures projected that the number of learners enrolled in fully-online programs at Title IV-eligible, degree-granting institutions would grow by approximately 20% in 2009 to reach approximately 2.1 million as of December 31, 2009, and would grow to approximately 2.9 million by December 31, 2011. Competition The postsecondary education market is highly fragmented and competitive, with no private or public institution enjoying a significant market share. We compete primarily with public and private degree-granting regionally accredited colleges and universities. Our competitors include both traditional and proprietary colleges and universities offering online programs, such as American Public University, Argosy University, DeVry University, Grand Canyon University, Strayer University, University of Phoenix and Walden University. Many of these colleges and universities enroll working adults in addition to traditional 18 to 24 year-old learners and offer a variety of distance education initiatives. We believe that the competitive factors in the postsecondary education market include the following: • relevant, practical and accredited program offerings; • reputation of the college or university and marketability of the degree; • convenient, flexible and dependable access to programs and classes; • regulatory approvals; • qualified and experienced faculty; • level of learner support; • cost of the program; • relative marketing and selling effectiveness; and • the time necessary to earn a degree. Our Competitive Strengths We believe we have the following competitive strengths: Commitment to Academic Quality. We are committed to providing our learners with a rewarding and challenging academic experience. Our commitment to academic quality is a tenet of our culture, and we believe that quality is an important consideration to those learners who choose Capella University. Having originated as an institution exclusively focused on graduate degree education, we have historically promoted an educational experience based on high academic standards. We have continued to apply this approach as we have expanded our graduate and undergraduate programs. Today, we believe that our commitment to academic quality is reflected in our curricula, faculty, learner support services and academic oversight process. The impact of this commitment is evident in the satisfaction of our learners both during their educational experience and following graduation. Exclusive Focus on Online Education. In contrast to institutions converting traditional, classroom-based educational offerings to an online format, our academic programs have been designed solely for online delivery. Our curriculum design offers flexibility while promoting a high level of interaction with other learners and faculty members. Our faculty are specifically trained to deliver online education, and our learner support 3 Table of Contents infrastructure was developed to track learner progress and performance to meet the needs of online learners. As a result of our exclusive focus on online education, we believe we have developed educational programs that meet the needs of our learners in a convenient and effective manner. Academic Programs and Specializations Designed for Working Adults. At December 31, 2009, we offered 36 academic programs with 124 specializations, each designed to appeal to and meet the educational objectives of working adults in specific professional markets. The diversity of our program portfolio allows us to target relevant portions of the adult learner population and provide offerings in several of the highest demand areas of study, such as behavioral health and human services, business, information technology, education and public service leadership. Our specializations are designed to attract learners by providing depth within a program that is typically unavailable in an unspecialized program and by addressing specific competencies that learners can apply in their current workplace. Extensive Learner Support Services. We provide extensive learner support services, both online and telephonically. Our support services include: academic services, such as advising, writing, tutoring and research services; administrative services, such as online class registration and transcript requests; library services; financial aid counseling; and career counseling services. We believe our commitment to providing high quality, responsive and convenient learner support services encourages course and degree completion and contributes to our high learner satisfaction. Experienced Management Team with Significant Business, Academic and Marketing Expertise. Our management team possesses extensive experience in business, academic and marketing management as well as public company experience, in many cases with organizations of much larger scale and operational diversity than our organization. Our management team is led by J. Kevin Gilligan, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, who has over 20 years of executive experience and service on public company boards. Lois M. Martin, our Chief Financial Officer, serves on a public company board of directors and has held senior financial management positions in public companies for over 11 years. Kyle Carpenter joined Capella Education Company in 2009 as Senior Vice President of Strategy and Business Development and has more than 30 years of business strategy and development experience. Dr. Christopher Cassirer, President of Capella University, has over 11 years of experience in academic leadership, including five years with Capella University. We integrate our management through cross-functional teams to ensure that business objectives are met while continuing to deliver academic quality. Our Operating Strategy Our faculty and staff are focused on helping our learners succeed. To that end, we intend to pursue the following operating strategies: • Lead the definition of high quality online learning to serve working adult professionals. • Deliver superior academic, career and life outcomes to our learners. • Sustain growth by focusing in high demand professional markets. We will focus on the following operational priorities to deliver these strategies: Superior teaching and learning outcomes. We will continue to refine and implement best practices for teaching and learning models, along with technology to enhance learning for working adults. Our goal is to further strengthen our position as a recognized leader in high quality, online learning. We are committed to delivering superior academic and career outcomes to our learners. We seek to develop a deep understanding of the professions we serve, and the competencies required of skilled professionals in these fields. This commitment guides the development of our curricula, the recruitment of our faculty and staff, and the design of our support services. We use the results of internal assessments to develop an understanding of the 4 Table of Contents specific needs and readiness of each individual learner at the start of a program. Through the use of competency-based curricula and transparent measurement of course and program outcomes, we seek to provide our learners with tangible outcomes, including a portfolio of professional competencies, and support for career advancement as well as the degree itself. Exceptional learner experience. Capella serves a unique learner. Our learners tend to be career professionals with an average age of 39, pursuing graduate degrees to fulfill a life purpose. We are surrounding these learners with a supportive environment to help them focus on academic success. This includes making learners’ administrative interactions with Capella less complex. We look for opportunities to improve our learners’ educational experience and increase the likelihood of learners successfully completing degree programs. We also seek to facilitate an even closer relationship between our faculty and learners to further drive learner success. We believe our focus on both superior learning outcomes and a superior learner experience is core to our differentiation strategy and will continue to enhance learner satisfaction, leading to higher levels of engagement, persistence, brand advocacy and referrals. Brand differentiation and leadership. Our goal is to build on our success of strong inquiry, application and new enrollment results. We will continue to leverage our data rich environment and analytical capabilities to drive greater marketing efficiencies, higher quality inquiries and improved conversion rates. We will continue to focus on enhancing our differentiation as a high quality, exclusively online university for working adults in targeted professions within our specified markets through a variety of initiatives. These initiatives include the pursuit of specialized accreditations, state approval of programs leading to professional licensure, brand alliances, and communicating our differentiation through brand advertising and direct marketing. To optimize our investments, we regularly perform market tests, analyze the results and refine our approach based on the findings. We believe increased brand awareness and differentiation will contribute to long-term competitive advantage and continued enrollment growth in our existing and future markets. Successful new market and product development. We also seek to drive growth through a multifaceted strategy of enhancing existing program offerings, developing new programs and specializations within our four current target markets, and pursuing new market and new business opportunities. We seek to enhance our existing program offerings by pursuing improvements in course design and technology and obtaining specialized accreditation, additional state approval of programs leading to professional licensure and select endorsements. Within our current target markets, we seek to expand our program and specialization offerings, while also targeting additional professions. Finally, we are beginning to explore opportunities in new markets and capabilities that will leverage our existing expertise, brand reputation and educational capabilities as well as have strong demand potential and growth characteristics. These four priorities are enabled by technology and the talent of our faculty and employees. We will continue to make investments in our technology infrastructure in and outside of the course room, and in talent development to continue to strengthen the foundation of our business. Capella University Capella University is a postsecondary educational institution accredited by The Higher Learning Commission of the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools, one of six regional institutional accrediting associations in the United States, and is registered with the Minnesota Office of Higher Education. 5 Table of Contents Our Approach to Academic Quality Some of the critical elements of our university that we believe promote a high level of academic quality include: • Curricula. We design the curricula for our programs around professional competencies desired for high performance in each field. The particular competencies are identified and validated through a variety of external sources and reviews. There are specific learning outcomes for each course as well as for the overall program, and we assess the learner’s achievement of the expected learning outcomes during his or her period of enrollment. • Faculty. We select our faculty based on their academic credentials and teaching and practitioner experience. Our faculty members tend to be practitioners as well as scholars, and they bring relevant, practical experience from their professional careers into the courses they teach. Approximately 82% of our faculty members hold a doctoral degree in their respective fields. We invest in the professional development of our faculty members through training in online teaching techniques as well as events and discussions designed to foster sharing of best practices and a commitment to academic quality. • Online Course Design. We employ a comprehensive design framework to ensure that our online courses offer a consistent learning experience, high quality interaction, and the tools required for assessing learning outcomes. We regularly assess course outcomes data as well as learner assessments to identify opportunities for course upgrades. • Learner Support. We establish teams comprised of both academic and administrative personnel in areas including advising, academic support, financial aid counseling and administrative, library and career counseling services to serve as important points of contact to learners throughout the duration of their studies. Most of our support services are accessible online, allowing users to access these services at a time and in a manner that is convenient to them. We believe that a committed support network is as important to maintaining learner motivation and commitment as the knowledge and engagement of our faculty. In addition to these traditional components of academic quality, our approach to teaching and the online format of our programs offers several features that enrich the learning experience for our primarily working adult learners: Low student to faculty ratio. Our courses average approximately 20 learners, providing each learner the opportunity to interact directly with our faculty and to receive individualized feedback and attention. We believe this adds to the academic quality of our programs by ensuring that each learner is encouraged to participate actively, thus enabling the instructor to better evaluate the learner’s understanding of course material. Diverse learner population. Our online format allows us to focus on adult learners as well as to attract a diverse population of learners with a variety of professional backgrounds and life experiences. Practitioner-oriented course experience. Our courses are designed to encourage our learners to incorporate workplace issues or projects into their studies, providing relevant context to many of the academic theories covered by our curricula. Time efficiency. While many campus-based learners are required to spend time commuting, parking, or otherwise navigating a large campus, our online learning format enables our learners to focus their time on course assignments and discussions. Residential colloquia experience. Our residential colloquia allow doctoral and certain master’s learners to engage in face-to-face interaction with other learners and faculty, which provides for a rich learning experience with relevant content. In addition we offer residential colloquia for our psychology and counseling learners as a key part of their required learning experience. 6 Table of Contents Curricula Our program offerings cover four markets: behavioral health and human services, business management and technology, education, and public service leadership. At December 31, 2009, we offered 36 academic programs with 124 specializations within these markets as follows: Public Service Leadership Behavioral Health and Human Services Doctor of Public Administration • General Public Administration Doctor of Philosophy in Human Services • General Human Services • Health Care Administration • Management of Nonprofit Agencies • Social and Community Services Doctor of Philosophy in Public Safety • Criminal Justice • Emergency Management • Public Safety Leadership Master of Public Administration • General Public Administration Master of Science in Human Services • General Human Services • Gerontology • Health Care Administration • Management of Nonprofit Agencies • Social and Community Services Master of Science in Nursing • Nurse Educator • Nurse Educator Bridge Master of Public Health • General Public Health • Health Management and Policy • Social and Behavioral Sciences Master of Science in Public Safety • Criminal Justice • Emergency Management • Public Safety Leadership Bachelor of Science in Public Safety • Criminal Justice • Emergency Management • Homeland Security Bachelor of Science in Nursing • RN-to-BSN Completion Bachelor of Public Administration • General Public Administration Doctor of Philosophy in Counselor Education and Supervision • General Counselor Education and Supervision Doctor of Philosophy in Counseling Studies • General Counseling Studies Doctor of Psychology • Clinical Psychology Doctor of Philosophy in Psychology • Educational Psychology • General Psychology • Industrial/Organizational Psychology Master of Science in Counseling Studies • General Counseling Studies Master of Science in Addiction Counseling • General Addiction Counseling Master of Science in Marriage and Family Therapy • General Marriage and Family Therapy Master of Science in Mental Health Counseling • General Mental Health Counseling Master of Science in School Counseling • General School Counseling Master of Science in Psychology • Child and Adolescent Development • Clinical Psychology • Counseling Psychology • Educational Psychology • Evaluation, Research, and Measurement • General Psychology • Industrial/Organizational Psychology • Leadership Coaching Psychology • Organizational Leader Development • School Psychology • Sport Psychology Bachelor of Science in Psychology • General Psychology 7 Table of Contents Business, Management & Technology Business, Management & Technology (continued) Doctor of Philosophy in Business • Accounting • General Business Doctor of Philosophy in Organization and Management • General Organization and Management • Human Resource Management • Information Technology Management • Leadership • Management Education • Project Management Doctor of Philosophy in Information Technology • General Information Technology • Information Assurance and Security • Information Technology Education • Project Management Master of Science in Human Resource Management Bachelor of Science in Business • Accounting • Business Administration • Finance • Health Care Management • Human Resource Management • Management and Leadership • Marketing • Project Management • Retail Management Bachelor of Science in Information Technology • General Information Technology • Health Informatics • Information Assurance and Security • Network Technology • Project Management • Software Architecture • General Human Resource Management • Human Capital Management • Industrial and Labor Relations • Legal Studies Master of Science in Organizational Development • General Organizational Development Master of Science in Leadership • General Leadership Master of Business Administration • Accounting • Finance • General Business Administration • Global Operations and Supply Chain Management • Health Care Management • Human Resource Management • Information Technology Management • Marketing • Project Management Master of Science in Information Technology • Business Analysis • Enterprise Software Architecture • General Information Technology • Health Information Management • Information Assurance and Security • Network Architecture • Project Management Education Doctor of Education (EdD) • Education Leadership and Management Doctor of Philosophy in Education (PhD) • Curriculum and Instruction • Instructional Design for Online Learning • K-12 Studies in Education • Leadership for Higher Education • Leadership in Educational Administration • Nursing Education • Postsecondary and Adult Education • Professional Studies in Education • Special Education Leadership • Training and Performance Improvement Education Specialist (EdS) • Curriculum and Instruction • Leadership in Educational Administration Master of Science in Education • Curriculum and Instruction • Early Childhood Education • Enrollment Management • Instructional Design for Online Learning • K-12 Studies in Education • Leadership for Higher Education • Leadership in Educational Administration • Postsecondary and Adult Education • Professional Studies in Education • Reading and Literacy • Special Education Teaching • Training and Performance Improvement Courses are offered on a quarterly academic schedule, which generally coincides with calendar quarters. We offer new learners in most programs the flexibility to begin their introductory first course in their program of study at the beginning of any month. These learners then enroll in subsequent courses on a regular quarterly course schedule. Depending on the program, learners generally enroll in one to two courses per quarter. Each course has a designated start date, and the majority of our courses last for ten weeks. 8 Table of Contents To meet course requirements, learners typically need to access the online courseroom multiple times each week. However, there is no set course schedule, so learners can attend each course as it fits their weekly schedule. Learners are required to respond to questions posed by the instructor, as well as comments made by other learners. This provides for an interactive experience in which each learner is both encouraged and required to be actively engaged. Additional learning experiences may include team projects and/or research papers. Our online format provides a digital record of learner interactions for the course instructor to assess learners’ levels of engagement and demonstration of required competencies. The course design also includes assessment of learning outcomes. The only exception to our exclusively online format is for doctoral learners, and for certain master’s degree candidates pursuing professional licenses. These learners participate in periodic residential colloquia, year-in-residencies, supervised practica and internships as a complement to their courses. The colloquia typically last two days to two weeks and are required, on average, once per year for learners in applicable programs, while the supervised practica and internships vary in length based on the program in which the learner is enrolled. We also offer certificate programs, which consist of a series of courses focused on a particular area of study, for learners who seek to enhance their skills and knowledge. Online certificate courses can be taken as part of a graduate degree program or on a stand-alone basis. Certificate programs generally consist of four courses. The duration of our certificate programs ranges from two quarters to approximately two years. Faculty We seek to hire faculty who have teaching and/or practitioner experience in their particular discipline and who possess significant academic credentials. Approximately 82% of our faculty members have a doctoral degree. We provide significant training to new faculty members, including a five-week online development program focused on effective online teaching methods and our online platform, prior to offering them a teaching assignment. In addition, we provide professional development and training for all faculty members on an ongoing basis. To evaluate the performance of our faculty members, we periodically monitor courseroom activity and assess learner performance against course outcomes. Our faculty consists of full-time academic administrators, faculty chairs and core faculty as well as adjunct faculty. Our full-time academic administrators’ primary responsibilities are to monitor the quality and relevance of our curricula, to recruit and manage teaching faculty and to ensure we maintain standards of accreditation. Our faculty chairs supervise the faculty in their respective specializations. Our full-time faculty teach courses in their assigned specializations and serve as mentors to, and on comprehensive and dissertation committees for, our doctoral learners. Our adjunct faculty typically teach one to three courses per quarter in their specializations and also serve as mentors to, and on comprehensive and dissertation committees for, our doctoral learners. Of our 1,277 faculty members as of December 31, 2009, 172 were core faculty and faculty administrators and the remainder were independent contractor adjunct faculty. On January 4, 2010, we transitioned our independent contractor adjunct faculty to become Capella employees. We believe this closer relationship with all of our faculty will strengthen our relationship with our learners and support our strategic goals in continuing to create a highly valuable learning experience focused on tangible outcomes. Learner Support Services The learner support services we provide include: Academic Services. We provide learners with a variety of services designed to support their academic studies. These services include new learner orientation, technical support, academic advising, research services (particularly for doctoral degree candidates), writing services and online tutoring. We also provide appropriate educational accommodations to learners with documented disabilities through our disability support services team. 9 Table of Contents Administrative Services. We provide learners with the ability to access a variety of administrative services both telephonically and via the Internet. For example, learners can register for classes, apply for financial aid, pay their tuition and access their billing statements and transcripts online. We believe this online accessibility provides the convenience and self-service capabilities that our learners value. Our financial aid counselors provide personalized online and telephonic support to our learners. Library Services. We provide learners with online access to the Capella University Library. Our library provides learners with access to a comprehensive collection of online journals, eBooks and interlibrary loan services. Our team of librarians is available via e-mail and phone to help with research, and learning. They offer tutorials, virtual instruction sessions, consultations on research assignments and online research guides. Librarians also attend our residential colloquia to teach library instruction sessions. Our interlibrary loan services are provided through our relationship with the University of Michigan. Career Counseling Services. Our staff of professional career counselors use a variety of tools, including individualized phone, e-mail and face-to-face communications, online newsletters, online seminars and conference calls to provide career planning services to learners and alumni. Our counselors also assist our recruitment staff with prospective learners’ selection of the Capella University program and specialization that best suits their professional aspirations. Admissions Capella University’s admission process is designed to offer access to prospective learners who seek the benefits of a postsecondary education while providing feedback to prospects regarding their ability to successfully complete their chosen program. Prior to the first course in their program of study, learners are urged to complete an orientation to online education and a skills assessment, the results of which enable us to develop an understanding of the specific needs and readiness of each individual learner. Learners must successfully complete the first course in their program of study to continue their education. Learners enrolling in our bachelor’s programs must have a high school diploma or a GED and demonstrate competence in writing and logical reasoning during the first course of their program of study. Learners enrolling in our graduate programs must have the requisite academic degree from an accredited institution and a specified minimum grade point average. In addition to our standard admission requirements, we require applicants to some of our programs to provide additional application material and information, and/or interview with, and be approved by faculty. Marketing We engage in a range of marketing activities to build the Capella brand, differentiate us from other educational providers, raise levels of awareness and consideration with prospective learners, generate inquiries about enrollment, remind and motivate existing learners to re-register each quarter, and stimulate referrals from existing learners and graduates. These marketing activities include Internet, print, radio and direct mail advertising campaigns, participation in seminars and trade shows, and development of marketing channels through our corporate and healthcare, U.S. Armed Forces, government, and educational relationships. Online advertising (targeted, direct, search and through aggregators) currently generates our largest volume of prospective learners. Our corporate and healthcare, U.S. Armed Forces, government and educational relationships are developed and managed by our channel sales team. Our channel sales team works with representatives in the various organizations to help them understand the quality, impact and value that our academic programs can provide, both for the individuals in their organization and for the organization itself. For the year ended December 31, 2009, approximately 24% of our learners received a discount in connection with one of our marketing relationships or programs described below. 10 Table of Contents • Corporate, Healthcare and Federal Relationships. We developed our corporate, healthcare and federal alliance programs to offer education opportunities to employees of large and mid-size companies. Pursuant to these arrangements, program participants make information about Capella University available to their employees. In return, we provide a tuition discount to participants’ employees and, in some cases, their immediate family members, and we provide professional development opportunities via webinars. Through our corporate, healthcare and federal alliance programs, we presently have learners from over 175 corporations, healthcare and federal providers. • U.S. Armed Forces Relationships and Discount Program. We offer a discount on tuition to all members of the U.S. Armed Forces, including active duty members, veterans, National Guard members, reservists, civilian employees of the Department of Defense and immediate family members of active duty personnel. We also have arrangements with various educational institutions of the U.S. Armed Forces pursuant to which we have agreed to accept credits from certain military educational programs earned by learners who meet our transfer requirements, which they can apply toward a Capella University degree. As part of these arrangements, several of these educational institutions make information about Capella University available to their members. In addition, we have arrangements with the Army National Guard, the U.S. Coast Guard Institute and several military bases pursuant to which these organizations make information about Capella University available to interested service members. • Educational Relationships. We developed our educational alliance program to allow graduates of community colleges to matriculate into our programs and to recruit community college faculty to attend our graduate programs. Pursuant to the arrangements between us and over 275 community colleges, we provide a tuition discount and an application fee waiver for community college learners, alumni, faculty, administrators and staff in exchange for marketing opportunities within each community college. Enrollment As of the last day of classes in the quarter ended December 31, 2009, our enrollment was 33,982 learners. Of the learners that responded to our demographic survey, as of December 31, 2009, approximately 72% were female and approximately 50% were people of color. Our learner population is geographically distributed throughout the United States. The following is a summary of our learners as of the last day of the quarter ended December 31, 2009: Enrollment Number ofLearners % ofTotal Doctoral 11,051 32.5 % Master’s 16,331 48.1 % Bachelor’s 6,411 18.9 % Other 189 0.5 % 33,982 100.0 % Tuition and Fees Our tuition rates vary by type and length of program and by degree level, such as doctoral, master’s or bachelor’s. For all learners in master’s and bachelor’s programs and for selected doctoral programs, tuition is charged on a per course basis. Prices per course generally ranged from $1,640 to $2,192 for the 2009-2010 academic year (the academic year that began in July 2009) and from $1,620 to $2,120 for the 2008-2009 academic year (the academic year that began in July 2008). The price of the course varies based upon the number 11 Table of Contents of credit hours, the degree level of the program and the discipline. The majority of doctoral programs were priced at a fixed quarterly amount of $4,485 per learner for the 2009-2010 academic year and $4,335 per learner for the 2008-2009 academic year, regardless of the number of courses in which the learner was registered. Capella University has implemented a new pricing structure for our bachelor’s courses whereby tuition varies based on the level of course. For the 2009-2010 academic year, lower division courses are priced at $265 per credit and upper division courses are priced at $325 per credit. Prior to this change, for the 2008-2009 academic year all bachelor’s courses were priced at $310 per credit. Tuition increases have not historically been, and may not in the future be, consistent across our programs and specializations due to market conditions or changes in operating costs that have an impact on price adjustments of individual programs or specializations. Capella University implemented a weighted average tuition increase of 3.3% for the 2009-2010 academic year (the academic year that began in July 2009). “Other” in the enrollment table above refers primarily to certificate-seeking learners. Certificate programs generally consist of four courses, and the price of a course depends on the number of credit hours and the discipline. Prices per course in certificate programs generally ranged from $1,692 to $2,192 for the 2009-2010 academic year and from $1,580 to $2,060 for the 2008-2009 academic year. A large portion of our learners rely on funds received under various government-sponsored student financial aid programs, predominantly Title IV programs, to pay a substantial portion of their tuition and other education-related expenses. In the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, approximately 78%, 75% and 74%, respectively, of our revenues (calculated on a cash basis) were attributable to funds derived from Title IV programs. In addition to Title IV funding, our learners receive financial aid from other governmental sources, tuition reimbursement from their employers or the Department of Defense or finance their education with their own funds or through private financing institutions. For the year ended December 31, 2009, less than one percent of our learners utilized private loans, and less than one percent of our revenue was derived from private loans. Technology Capella University provides learners and faculty members a secure web-based portal through which they can access courses and support services. Online courseroom. Our online courseroom provides the instructional content of the course, along with tools to facilitate course discussions, assessments, grading and submission of assignments. We operate Blackboard Learning System as our courseroom platform. Blackboard Learning System provides discussion, testing and grading capabilities for our online courseroom. Learner portal. Our iGuide platform acts as a virtual campus to our learners, providing them with resources and tools to connect with fellow learners, faculty and non-faculty staff. Learners also use iGuide to access to their online courseroom, discussion areas, e-books, the library, financial aid, and other support services. Learner and faculty support. We rely on an Oracle/Peoplesoft enterprise package to provide support services to our learners and faculty, including learner participation monitoring, course registration, transcript requests and financial aid applications. In addition, we offer our learners and faculty members online access to our library resources. Internal administration. We use Oracle’s PeopleSoft enterprise software package to perform internal administrative and operational functions. Our student information system manages learner academic data and accounts receivable information, and our document management system stores and sorts learner applications, academic records and marketing data. We also employ customer relationship management software to organize and process prospective learner information. 12 Table of Contents Infrastructure. Our servers are located in a third party hosting facility and at our corporate headquarters. All of our servers are linked and we have redundant data backup. We currently use a combination of Microsoft-based software on HP server equipment and Sun Microsystems servers. Faculty & Other Employees As of December 31, 2009, we had a total of 1,277 faculty members, consisting of 172 full-time faculty and faculty administrators and 1,105 independent contractor adjunct faculty. On January 4, 2010, we transitioned our independent contractor adjunct faculty to become Capella employees. We believe this closer relationship with all of our faculty will strengthen our relationship with our learners and support our strategic goals in continuing to create a highly valuable learning experience focused on tangible outcomes. We engage our adjunct faculty on a course-by-course basis. Adjunct faculty are compensated a fixed amount for a base number of learners and a variable rate per learner thereafter, which varies depending on discipline. In addition to teaching assignments, adjunct faculty may be asked to serve on learner committees, such as comprehensive examination and dissertation committees, or assist with course development. We have the right to cancel any teaching assignment due to low enrollment or to cancel sections to create proper class sizes. If a teaching assignment is canceled, we do not compensate the adjunct faculty member for the assignment. As of December 31, 2009, we also employed 1,358 non-faculty staff in university services, academic advising and academic support, enrollment services, university administration, financial aid, information technology, human resources, finance and other administrative functions. None of our employees is a party to any collective bargaining or similar agreement with us. We consider our relationships with our employees to be satisfactory. Intellectual Property Intellectual property is important to our business. We rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secrets, domain names and agreements with third parties to protect our proprietary rights. In many instances, our course content is produced for us by faculty and other content experts under work for hire agreements pursuant to which we own the course content in return for a fixed development fee. In certain limited cases, we license course content from a third party on a royalty fee basis. We have trademark or service mark registrations and pending applications in the U.S. and select foreign jurisdictions for the words “CAPELLA,” “CAPELLA EDUCATION COMPANY,” and “CAPELLA UNIVERSITY” and distinctive logos, along with various other trademarks and service marks related to our specific offerings. We also own domain name rights to “www.capellaeducationcompany.com”, “www.capellaeducation.com”, “ www.capella.edu “ and “ www.capellauniversity.edu “, as well as other words and phrases important to our business. Available Information Our Internet address is www.capellaeducation.com. We make available, free of charge through our website, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed pursuant to Section 13(a) of 15(d) of the Exchange Act, soon after they are electronically filed with the SEC. In addition, our earnings conference calls and presentations to the financial community are web cast live via our website. In addition to visiting our website, you may read and copy public reports we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F. Street NE, Washington DC 20549, or at www.sec.gov. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Information contained on our website is expressly not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. 13 Table of Contents REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT Learners attending Capella University finance their education through a combination of individual resources, corporate reimbursement programs and federal financial aid programs. Capella University participates in the federal student financial aid programs authorized under Title IV. For the year ended December 31, 2009, approximately 78% of our revenues (calculated on a cash basis) were derived from Title IV programs. In connection with a learner’s receipt of federal financial aid, we are subject to extensive regulation by the Department of Education, state education agencies and our accrediting agency, The Higher Learning Commission of the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools. In particular, the Title IV programs, and the regulations issued thereunder by the Department of Education, subject us to significant regulatory scrutiny in the form of numerous standards that we must satisfy to participate in the federal student financial aid programs. To participate in Title IV programs, a school must be: • authorized to offer its programs of instruction by the applicable state education agencies in the states in which it is physically located (in our case, Minnesota); • accredited by an accrediting agency recognized by the Secretary of the Department of Education; and • certified as an eligible institution by the Department of Education. Our business activities are planned and implemented to achieve compliance with the rules and regulations of the state, regional and federal agencies that regulate our activities. We have established regulatory compliance and management systems and processes under the oversight of our Chief Financial Officer and our General Counsel that are designed to meet the requirements of this regulatory environment. Accreditation Capella University has been institutionally accredited since 1997 by The Higher Learning Commission of the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools, a regional accrediting agency recognized by the Secretary of the Department of Education. In February 2008, Capella received a letter of reaffirmation from The Higher Learning Commission, effective through 2015. Accreditation is a non-governmental system for recognizing educational institutions and their programs for learner performance, governance, integrity, educational quality, faculty, physical resources, administrative capability and resources, and financial stability. In the United States, this recognition comes primarily through private voluntary associations that accredit institutions and programs of higher education. To be recognized by the Secretary of the Department of Education, accrediting agencies must adopt specific standards for their review of educational institutions. These associations, or accrediting agencies, establish criteria for accreditation, conduct peer-review evaluations of institutions and professional programs for accreditation and publicly designate those institutions that meet their criteria. Accredited schools are subject to periodic review by accrediting agencies to determine whether such schools maintain the performance, integrity and quality required for accreditation. The Higher Learning Commission is the same accrediting agency that accredits such universities as Northwestern University, the University of Chicago, the University of Minnesota and other degree-granting public and private colleges and universities in its region (namely, the States of Arkansas, Arizona, Colorado, Iowa, Illinois, Indiana, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, North Dakota, Nebraska, Ohio, Oklahoma, New Mexico, South Dakota, Wisconsin, West Virginia and Wyoming). Accreditation by The Higher Learning Commission is important to us. Colleges and universities depend, in part, on accreditation in evaluating transfers of credit and applications to graduate schools. Employers rely on the accredited status of institutions when evaluating a candidate’s credentials, and corporate and government sponsors under tuition reimbursement programs look to accreditation for assurance that an institution maintains quality educational standards. Moreover, institutional accreditation by an accrediting agency recognized by the Secretary of the Department of Education is necessary for eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. 14 Table of Contents State Regulatory Accountability We are registered with the Minnesota Office of Higher Education, the regulatory agency governing the State of Minnesota, where Capella University is located. We are required by the Higher Education Act to maintain registration with the Minnesota Office of Higher Education to participate in Title IV programs. The continuing popularity and use of the Internet and other online services for the delivery of education has led and may lead to the adoption of new laws and regulatory practices in the United States or foreign countries and new interpretations of existing laws and regulations. These new laws, regulations and interpretations may relate to issues such as the requirement that online education institutions be licensed to operate in one or more jurisdictions where they have no physical location or other presence. For instance, in some states, we are required to seek licensure or authorization because our recruiters meet with prospective learners in the state. In other cases, the state higher educational agency has required licensure or authorization because we enroll learners who reside in the state. In addition to Minnesota, Capella University is licensed or authorized to operate or to offer degree programs in 19 other states because we have determined that our activities in each of those states constitute a presence requiring licensure or authorization by the state higher educational agency. In some cases, the licensure or authorization is only for specific programs or specific activities. In the majority of these states, Capella University has either determined that separate licensure or authorization for its certificate programs is not necessary, or has obtained such licensure or authorization. Capella’s certificate programs must be, and have been, approved in certain states. Because we enroll learners from each of the 50 states, as well as the District of Columbia, and because we may undertake activities in other states that constitute a presence or otherwise subject us to the jurisdiction of the respective state educational agency, we may, from time to time, need to seek licensure or authorization to operate in additional states. We are subject to extensive regulations by the states in which we are authorized or licensed to operate. State laws typically establish standards for instruction, qualifications of faculty, administrative procedures, marketing, recruiting, financial operations and other operational matters. State laws and regulations may limit our ability to offer educational programs and to award degrees. Some states may also prescribe financial regulations that are different from those of the Department of Education. We are required to post surety bonds in several states. If we fail to comply with state licensing requirements, we may lose our state licensure or authorizations. Although we believe that the only state authorization or licensure necessary for us to participate in Title IV programs is our registration with the Minnesota Office of Higher Education, loss of authorization or licensure in other states could restrict our ability to recruit or enroll learners in those and other states. Failure to comply with the requirements of the Minnesota Office of Higher Education could result in Capella University losing its registration with the Minnesota Office of Higher Education, its eligibility to participate in Title IV programs, or its ability to offer certain programs, any of which may force us to cease operations. State Professional Licensure Many states have specific requirements that an individual must satisfy to be licensed as a professional in a specified field. Learners often seek to obtain professional licensure in their chosen fields following graduation. Their success in obtaining licensure typically depends on several factors, including the individual merits of the graduate, as well as the following, among other factors: • whether the institution and the program were approved by Minnesota, the state in which the graduate seeks licensure, or by a professional association; • whether the program from which the learner graduated meets all state requirements for professional licensure; and • whether the institution is accredited. 15 Table of Contents Due to varying requirements for professional licensure in each state, Capella University’s catalog informs learners of the risks associated with obtaining professional licensure and more specifically states that (1) Capella University makes no representation nor guarantees that completion of any educational program ensures that the learner will be able to obtain individual professional licensure or certification, and (2) that learners are solely responsible for determining and complying with state, local, or professional licensure and certification requirements. When we learn that a state has refused to grant licensure to one of our graduates, we take one or more of the following actions. In certain instances, where we believe the state’s refusal to license one of our graduates may be incorrect, we assist learners by providing clarifying information to the state. In other cases, such as where a state will not license one of our learners because a Capella University program is not accredited by a specific third party, we convey that information to prospective learners before they enroll in such program. In all cases, we semi-annually remind our learners that they need to communicate directly with the state in which they intend to seek licensure to fully understand the licensing requirements of that state. Nature of Federal, State and Private Financial Support for Postsecondary Education The federal government provides a substantial part of its support for postsecondary education through Title IV programs, in the form of grants and loans to learners who can use those funds at any institution that has been certified as eligible by the Department of Education. Aid under Title IV programs is primarily awarded on the basis of financial need, generally defined as the difference between the cost of attending the institution and the amount a learner can reasonably contribute to that cost. All recipients of Title IV program funds must maintain satisfactory academic progress and must also progress in a timely manner toward completion of their program of study. In addition, each school must ensure that Title IV program funds are properly accounted for and disbursed in the correct amounts to eligible learners. Capella University learners receive loans and grants to fund their education under the following Title IV programs: (1) the Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP), (2) the Federal Direct Loan Program (FDLP) and (3) the Federal Pell Grant, or Pell, program. In 2009, approximately 78% of our revenues (calculated on a cash basis) were derived from tuition financed under Title IV programs. 1) FFELP. Under the FFELP, banks and other lending institutions make loans to learners. If a learner defaults on a loan, payment is guaranteed by a federally recognized guaranty agency, which is then reimbursed by the Department of Education. Learners with financial need qualify for interest subsidies while in school and during grace periods. In 2009, we derived approximately 72% of our revenues (calculated on a cash basis) from the FFELP. 2) FDLP. Under the FDLP, the Department of Education, rather than a private lender, makes loans to learners. In 2009, we derived approximately 5% of our revenues (calculated on a cash basis) from the FDLP. 3) Pell. Under the Pell program, the Department of Education makes grants to learners who demonstrate financial need. In 2009, we derived approximately 1% of our revenues (calculated on a cash basis) from the Pell program. In addition to the programs stated above, eligible learners at Capella University may participate in several other financial aid programs or receive support from other governmental and private sources. Certain learners are eligible to receive funds from educational assistance programs administered by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs through the Minnesota Department of Veterans Affairs. Some Capella University learners finance all or a portion of their own education or receive full or partial tuition reimbursement from their employers. Finally, eligible learners can also access private loans through a number of different lenders for funding at current market interest rates. For the year ended December 31, 2009, less than one percent of our learners utilized private loans, and less than one percent of our revenue was derived from private loans. 16 Table of Contents U.S. Department of Education regulations restrict gifts and incentives that lenders can provide to colleges, closely regulate the manner in which colleges select preferred lenders, and require greater disclosure to learners about any preferred lender relationships. We believe we are in compliance with these regulations. Regulation of Federal Student Financial Aid Programs To be eligible to participate in Title IV programs, an institution must comply with specific standards and procedures set forth in the Higher Education Act and the regulations issued thereunder by the Department of Education. An institution must, among other things, be licensed or authorized to offer its educational programs by the state within which it is physically located (in our case, Minnesota) and maintain institutional accreditation by a recognized accrediting agency. Capella University’s current certification to participate in Title IV programs expired December 31, 2008. However, in September 2008, Capella University timely submitted its Title IV program participation recertification application to the Department of Education, and we have been collaborating with the Department of Education regarding this recertification application. Our eligibility continues until the Department of Education issues its decision on the application. Our current eligibility status is not unusual considering the process is multi-faceted and iterative. We have no reason to believe that the application will not be renewed and expect that the renewal process will be completed satisfactorily. The substantial amount of federal funds disbursed through Title IV programs, the large number of learners and institutions participating in these programs and allegations of fraud and abuse by certain for-profit institutions have caused Congress to require the Department of Education to exercise considerable regulatory oversight over for-profit institutions of higher learning. Accrediting agencies and state education agencies also have responsibilities for overseeing compliance of institutions with Title IV program requirements. As a result, our institution is subject to extensive oversight and review. Because the Department of Education periodically revises its regulations and changes its interpretations of existing laws and regulations, we cannot predict with certainty how the Title IV program requirements will be applied in all circumstances. Significant factors relating to Title IV programs that could adversely affect us include the following: Congressional Action. Congress reauthorizes the Higher Education Act approximately every five to eight years. Congress most recently reauthorized the Higher Education Act in August 2008. The reauthorized Higher Education Act continued all of the Title IV programs in which we participate, but made numerous revisions to the requirements governing the Title IV programs, including provisions relating to the relationships between institutions and lenders that make student loans, student loan default rates, and the formula for revenue that institutions are permitted to derive from the Title IV programs. In addition, further rulemaking by the Department of Education may impose additional requirements on institutions that participate in Title IV programs. In November 2009, the U.S. Department of Education convened two new negotiated rulemaking teams related to Title IV program integrity issues and foreign school issues. The negotiated rulemaking process consisted of three meetings for each team and recently concluded without reaching consensus on several issues. In the next few months, it is anticipated the U.S. Department of Education will publish proposed rules in a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking for public comment. After the public comment period expires, the U.S. Department of Education must publish final regulations in the Federal Register on or before November 1, 2010 for the regulations to be effective July 1, 2011. We cannot predict the outcome of this rulemaking process at this time. Administrative Capability. Department of Education regulations specify extensive criteria by which an institution must establish that it has the requisite “administrative capability” to participate in Title IV programs. Failure to satisfy any of the standards may lead the Department of Education to find the institution ineligible to participate in Title IV programs or to place the institution on provisional certification as a condition of its participation. To meet the administrative capability standards, an institution must, among other things: • comply with all applicable Title IV program regulations; • have capable and sufficient personnel to administer the federal student financial aid programs; 17 Table of Contents • have acceptable methods of defining and measuring the satisfactory academic progress of its learners; • not have cohort default debt rates above specified levels; • have various procedures in place for safeguarding federal funds; • not be, and not have any principal or affiliate who is, debarred or suspended from federal contracting or engaging in activity that is cause for debarment or suspension; • provide financial aid counseling to its learners; • refer to the Department of Education’s Office of Inspector General any credible information indicating that any applicant, learner, employee, or agent of the institution, has been engaged in any fraud or other illegal conduct involving Title IV programs; • submit in a timely manner all reports and financial statements required by the regulations; and • not otherwise appear to lack administrative capability. If an institution fails to satisfy any of these criteria or any other Department of Education regulation, the Department of Education may: • require the repayment of Title IV funds; • transfer the institution from the “advance” system of payment of Title IV funds to cash monitoring status or to the “reimbursement” system of payment; • place the institution on provisional certification status; or • commence a proceeding to impose a fine or to limit, suspend or terminate the participation of the institution in Title IV programs. If we are found not to have satisfied the Department of Education’s “administrative capability” requirements, we could lose, or be limited in our access to, Title IV program funding. Financial Responsibility. The Higher Education Act and Department of Education regulations establish extensive standards of financial responsibility that institutions such as Capella University must satisfy to participate in Title IV programs. These standards generally require that an institution provide the resources necessary to comply with Title IV program requirements and meet all of its financial obligations, including required refunds and any repayments to the Department of Education for liabilities incurred in programs administered by the Department of Education. The Department of Education evaluates institutions on an annual basis for compliance with specified financial responsibility standards utilizing a complex formula that uses line items from the institution’s audited financial statements. The standards focus on three financial ratios: (1) equity ratio (which measures the institution’s capital resources, financial viability and ability to borrow); (2) primary reserve ratio (which measures the institution’s ability to support current operations from expendable resources); and (3) net income ratio (which measures the institution’s ability to operate at a profit or within its means). An institution’s financial ratios must yield a composite score of at least 1.5 for the institution to be deemed financially responsible without the need for further federal oversight. We have applied the financial responsibility standards to our audited financial statements as of and for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, and calculated a composite score of 3.0 for both years, which is the maximum score attainable. We therefore believe that we meet the Department of Education’s financial responsibility standards. If the Department of Education were to determine that we did not meet the financial responsibility standards due to a failure to meet the composite score or other factors, we could establish financial responsibility on an alternative basis by, among other things: • posting a letter of credit in an amount equal to at least 50% of the total Title IV program funds received by the institution during the institution’s most recently completed fiscal year; 18 Table of Contents • posting a letter of credit in an amount equal to at least 10% of such prior year’s Title IV program funds received by us, accepting provisional certification, complying with additional Department of Education monitoring requirements and agreeing to receive Title IV program funds under an arrangement other than the Department of Education’s standard advance funding arrangement; or • complying with additional Department of Education monitoring requirements and agreeing to receive Title IV program funds under an arrangement other than the Department of Education’s standard advance funding arrangement such as the “reimbursement” system of payment or cash monitoring. Failure to meet the Department of Education’s “financial responsibility” requirements, either because we do not meet the Department of Education’s minimum composite score to establish financial responsibility or are unable to establish financial responsibility on an alternative basis, would cause us to lose access to Title IV program funding. Title IV Return of Funds. Under the Department of Education’s return of funds regulations, an institution must first determine the amount of Title IV program funds that a learner “earned.” If the learner withdraws during the first 60% of any period of enrollment or payment period, the amount of Title IV program funds that the learner earned is equal to a pro rata portion of the funds for which the learner would otherwise be eligible. If the learner withdraws after the 60% threshold, then the learner has earned 100% of the Title IV program funds. The institution must return to the appropriate Title IV programs, in a specified order, the lesser of (i) the unearned Title IV program funds and (ii) the institutional charges incurred by the learner for the period multiplied by the percentage of unearned Title IV program funds. An institution must return the funds no later than 45 days after the date of the institution’s determination that a learner withdrew. If such payments are not timely made, an institution may be subject to adverse action, including being required to submit a letter of credit equal to 25% of the refunds the institution should have made in its most recently completed year. Under Department of Education regulations, late returns of Title IV program funds for 5% or more of learners sampled in the institution’s annual compliance audit constitutes material non-compliance. Current rulemaking by the Department of Education may result in amendments to these regulations. In September 2008, Capella University issued the Department of Education an irrevocable letter of credit in the amount of $1.1 million in connection with this regulation. In July 2009, the Company renewed the letter of credit through July 31, 2010 and increased the amount to $1.4 million. The “90/10 Rule.” A requirement of the Higher Education Act, commonly referred to as the “90/10 Rule,” applies only to “proprietary institutions of higher education,” which includes Capella University. Under this rule, for periods prior to the August 2008 reauthorization of the Higher Education Act, an institution loses its eligibility to participate in the Title IV programs, if, on a cash accounting basis, it derives more than 90% of its revenues for any fiscal year from Title IV program funds. Any institution that violates the rule becomes ineligible to participate in the Title IV programs as of the first day of the fiscal year following the fiscal year in which it exceeds 90%, and it is unable to apply to regain its eligibility until the next fiscal year. The August 2008 reauthorization of the Higher Education Act included significant revisions to the “90/10 Rule,” effective upon the date of the law’s enactment. Under the revised law, an institution is subject to loss of eligibility to participate in the Title IV programs only if it exceeds the 90% threshold for two consecutive fiscal years. An institution whose rate exceeds 90% for any single fiscal year will be placed on provisional certification for at least two fiscal years and may be subject to other conditions specified by the Secretary of Education. However, the provisions of the recent Higher Education Act reauthorization allow institutions, when calculating their compliance with this revenue test, to exclude from their Title IV revenues for a three-year period the additional federal student loan amounts that became available starting in July 2008, and to include more non-Title IV revenues, such as revenues from institutional loans under certain circumstances. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we derived approximately 78% of our revenues (calculated on a cash basis) from Title IV program funds. Student Loan Defaults. Under the Higher Education Act, an educational institution may lose its eligibility to participate in some or all of the Title IV programs if defaults on the repayment of federally guaranteed student loans by its learners exceed certain levels. For each federal fiscal year, a rate of student defaults (known as a 19 Table of Contents “cohort default rate”) is calculated for each institution with 30 or more borrowers entering repayment in a given federal fiscal year by determining the rate at which borrowers who become subject to their repayment obligation in that federal fiscal year default by the end of the following federal fiscal year. For such institutions, the Department of Education calculates a single cohort default rate for each federal fiscal year that includes in the cohort all current or former student borrowers at the institution who entered repayment on any FFELP Stafford loan during that year. If the Department of Education notifies an institution that its cohort default rates for each of the three most recent federal fiscal years are 25% or greater, the institution’s participation in FFELP and Pell program ends 30 days after the notification, unless the institution appeals in a timely manner that determination on specified grounds and according to specified procedures. In addition, an institution’s participation in FFELP ends 30 days after notification that its most recent fiscal year cohort default rate is greater than 40%, unless the institution timely appeals that determination on specified grounds and according to specified procedures. An institution whose participation ends under these provisions may not participate in the relevant programs for the remainder of the fiscal year in which the institution receives the notification, as well as for the next two fiscal years. If an institution’s cohort default rate equals or exceeds 25% in any single year, the institution may be placed on provisional certification status. Provisional certification does not limit an institution’s access to Title IV program funds; however, an institution with provisional status is subject to closer review by the Department of Education and may be subject to summary adverse action if it violates Title IV program requirements. If an institution’s default rate exceeds 40%, the institution may lose eligibility to participate in some or all Title IV programs. Capella University’s cohort default rates on FFELP loans for the 2007, 2006 and 2005 federal fiscal years, the three most recent years for which information is available, were 2.5%, 1.5% and 2.3%, respectively. The average cohort default rates for four-year proprietary institutions nationally were 9.8%, 8.4% and 7.2% in fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The August 2008 reauthorization of the Higher Education Act included significant revisions to the requirements concerning FFELP cohort default rates. Under the revised law, the period for which learners’ defaults on their loans are included in the calculation of an institution’s cohort default rate has been extended by one additional year, which is expected to increase the cohort default rates for most institutions. That change will be effective with the calculation of institutions’ cohort default rates for federal fiscal year 2009, which are expected to be calculated and issued by the Department of Education in 2012. The revised law also increased the threshold for ending an institution’s participation in the relevant Title IV programs from 25% to 30%, effective in 2012. If our learners obtain loans under the FDLP, those loans will be combined with our learners’ FFELP loans in calculating our annual student loan cohort default rate. In such case, the potential sanctions discussed in this section would be based on the combined cohort default rate. Incentive Compensation Rules. As a part of an institution’s program participation agreement with the Department of Education and in accordance with the Higher Education Act, the institution may not provide any commission, bonus or other incentive payment to any person or entity engaged in any learner recruitment, admissions or financial aid awarding activity based directly or indirectly on success in securing enrollments or financial aid. Certain Department of Education regulations clarify the incentive payment rule. The regulations set forth 12 “safe harbors,” which describe payments or arrangements that do not violate the incentive payment rule. Current rulemaking by the Department of Education may result in amendments to these regulations. Failure to comply with the incentive compensation rules could result in loss of eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs or financial penalties. Although there can be no assurance that the Department of Education would not find deficiencies in Capella University’s present or former employee compensation and third-party contractual arrangements, we believe that our employee compensation and third-party contractual arrangements comply with the incentive compensation provisions of the Higher Education Act and Department of Education regulations thereunder. Compliance Reviews. We are subject to announced and unannounced compliance reviews and audits by various external agencies, including the Department of Education, its Office of Inspector General (OIG), state 20 Table of Contents licensing agencies, agencies that guarantee FFELP loans, the Department of Veterans Affairs and accrediting agencies. As part of the Department of Education’s ongoing monitoring of institutions’ administration of Title IV programs, The Higher Education Act and Department of Education regulations also require institutions to annually submit a compliance audit conducted by an independent certified public accountant in accordance with Government Auditing Standards and applicable audit standards of the Department of Education. In addition, to enable the Secretary of Education to make a determination of financial responsibility, institutions must annually submit audited financial statements prepared in accordance with Department of Education regulations. The OIG is responsible for, among other things, promoting the effectiveness and integrity of the Department of Education’s programs and operations. With respect to educational institutions that participate in Title IV funding programs, the OIG conducts its work primarily through compliance audits and investigations. An OIG compliance audit typically focuses on whether an institution administers federal funds in accordance with applicable rules and regulations, whereas an investigation typically indicates a concern regarding potential fraud or abuse involving federal funds. We perform periodic reviews of our compliance with the various applicable regulatory requirements. We have not been notified by any of the various regulatory agencies of any significant noncompliance matters that would adversely impact our ability to participate in Title IV programs, however, the OIG has conducted a compliance audit of Capella University. The audit commenced on April 10, 2006 and we subsequently provided the OIG with periodic information, responded to follow up inquiries and facilitated site visits and access to our records. The OIG completed its field work in January 2007 and the University received a draft audit report on August 23, 2007. Capella University provided written comments on the draft audit report to the OIG on September 25, 2007. On March 7, 2008, the OIG’s final report was issued to the Acting Chief Operating Officer (COO) for Federal Student Aid (FSA), which is responsible for primary oversight of the Title IV funding programs. Capella University responded to the final report on April 8, 2008. Recently, Capella University provided FSA staff with certain additional requested information for financial aid years 2002-2003 through 2006-2007. The FSA will subsequently issue final findings and requirements for Capella University. The FSA may take certain actions, including requiring that we refund certain federal student aid funds, requiring us to modify our Title IV administration procedures, and/or requiring us to pay fines or penalties. The possible effects of a finding of a regulatory violation are described in additional detail below in “—Potential Effect of Regulatory Violations.” Based on the final audit report for the financial aid years 2002-2003 through 2004-2005, the most significant potential financial exposure from the audit pertains to repayments to the Department of Education that could be required if the OIG concludes that Capella University did not properly calculate the amount of Title IV funds required to be returned for learners that withdrew without providing an official notification of such withdrawal and without engaging in academic activity prior to such withdrawal. If it is determined that Capella University improperly withheld any portion of these funds, Capella University would be required to return the improperly withheld funds. Capella University and the OIG have differing interpretations of the relevant regulations regarding what constitutes engagement in the unofficial withdrawal context. As the Company interprets the engagement requirement, it currently estimates that for the three year audit period, and for the subsequent aid years through 2007-2008, the total amount of Title IV funds not returned—for learners who withdrew without providing official notification and without engaging as required in the relevant regulations—was approximately $1.0 million including interest, but not including fines and penalties. If this difference of interpretation is ultimately resolved in a manner adverse to the Company, then the total amount of Title IV funds not returned for learners who withdrew without providing official notification would be greater than the amount the Company has currently estimated. Potential Effect of Regulatory Violations. If Capella University fails to comply with the regulatory standards governing Title IV programs, the Department of Education could impose one or more sanctions, including transferring Capella University to the reimbursement or cash monitoring system of payment, seeking to require repayment of certain Title IV program funds, requiring Capella University to post a letter of credit in favor of the Department of Education as a condition for continued Title IV certification, taking emergency action against Capella University, referring the matter for criminal prosecution or initiating proceedings to impose a fine or to limit, condition, suspend or terminate the participation of Capella University in Title IV programs. In 21 Table of Contents addition, the agencies that guarantee FFELP loans for Capella University learners could initiate proceedings to limit, suspend or terminate Capella University’s eligibility to provide guaranteed student loans in the event of certain regulatory violations. If Capella University lost its eligibility to participate in Title IV programs, or if the amount of available federal student financial aid were reduced, we would seek to arrange or provide alternative sources of revenue or financial aid for learners. Although we believe that one or more private organizations would be willing to provide financial assistance to learners attending Capella University, there is no assurance that this would be the case, and the interest rate and other terms of such financial aid might not be as favorable as those for Title IV program funds. We may be required to guarantee all or part of such alternative assistance or might incur other additional costs in connection with securing alternative sources of financial aid. Capella University also may be subject, from time to time, to complaints and lawsuits relating to regulatory compliance brought not only by our regulatory agencies, but also by other government agencies and third parties, such as present or former learners or employees and other members of the public. Restrictions on Adding Educational Programs. State requirements and accrediting agency standards may, in certain instances, limit our ability to establish additional programs. Many states require approval before institutions can add new programs under specified conditions. The Higher Learning Commission, the Minnesota Office of Higher Education, and other state educational regulatory agencies that license or authorize us and our programs, require institutions to notify them in advance of implementing new programs, and upon notification may undertake a review of the institution’s licensure, authorization or accreditation. Generally, if an institution eligible to participate in Title IV programs adds an educational program after it has been designated as an eligible institution, the institution must apply to the Department of Education to have the additional program designated as eligible. However, a degree-granting institution is not obligated to obtain the Department of Education’s approval of additional programs that lead to an associate, bachelor’s, professional or graduate degree at the same degree level(s) previously approved by the Department of Education. Similarly, an institution is not required to obtain advance approval for new programs that both prepare learners for gainful employment in the same or related recognized occupation as an educational program that has previously been designated as an eligible program at that institution and meet certain minimum-length requirements. However, the Department of Education, as a condition of certification to participate in Title IV programs, can require prior approval of such programs or otherwise restrict the number of programs an institution may add. In the event that an institution that is required to obtain the Department of Education’s express approval for the addition of a new program fails to do so, and erroneously determines that the new educational program is eligible for Title IV program funds, the institution may be liable for repayment of Title IV program funds received by the institution or learners in connection with that program. Eligibility and Certification Procedures. Each institution must apply to the Department of Education for continued certification to participate in Title IV programs at least every six years, or when it undergoes a change of control, and an institution may come under the Department of Education’s review when it expands its activities in certain ways, such as opening an additional location or, in certain cases, when it modifies academic credentials that it offers. Capella University’s current certification to participate in Title IV programs expired December 31, 2008. However, in September 2008, Capella University timely submitted its Title IV program participation recertification application to the Department of Education. Our recertification process is described more fully in “Regulatory Environment–Regulation of Federal Student Financial Aid Programs.” The Department of Education may place an institution on provisional certification status if it finds that the institution does not fully satisfy all of the eligibility and certification standards. The Department of Education may withdraw an institution’s provisional certification without advance notice if the Department of Education determines that the institution is not fulfilling all material requirements. In addition, the Department of Education may more closely review an institution that is provisionally certified if it applies for approval to open a new location, add an educational program, acquire another school or make any other significant change. 22 Table of Contents During the period of provisional certification, the institution must comply with any additional conditions included in its program participation agreement. If the Department of Education determines that a provisionally certified institution is unable to meet its responsibilities under its program participation agreement, it may seek to revoke the institution’s certification to participate in Title IV programs with fewer due process protections for the institution than if it were fully certified. Learners attending provisionally certified institutions remain eligible to receive Title IV program funds. School Acquisitions. When a company, partnership or any other entity or individual acquires a school that is eligible to participate in Title IV programs, that school undergoes a change of ownership resulting in a change of control as defined by the Department of Education. Upon such a change of control, a school’s eligibility to participate in Title IV programs is generally suspended until it has applied for recertification by the Department of Education as an eligible school under its new ownership, which requires that the school also re-establish its state authorization and accreditation. The Department of Education may temporarily and provisionally certify an institution seeking approval of a change of ownership under certain circumstances while the Department of Education reviews the institution’s application. The time required for the Department of Education to act on such an application may vary substantially. The Department of Education’s recertification of an institution following a change of control will be on a provisional basis. Change in Ownership Resulting in a Change of Control. In addition to school acquisitions, other types of transactions can also cause a change of control. The Department of Education, most state education agencies and our accrediting agency all have standards pertaining to the change of control of schools, but these standards are not uniform. Department of Education regulations describe some transactions that constitute a change of control, including the transfer of a controlling interest in the voting stock of an institution or the institution’s parent corporation. With respect to a publicly traded corporation, Department of Education regulations provide that a change of control occurs in one of two ways: (i) if there is an event that would obligate the corporation to file a Current Report on Form 8-K with the SEC disclosing a change of control or (ii) if the corporation has a shareholder that owns at least 25% of the total outstanding voting stock of the corporation and is the largest shareholder of the corporation, and that shareholder ceases to own at least 25% of such stock or ceases to be the largest shareholder. These standards are subject to interpretation by the Department of Education. A significant purchase or disposition of our voting stock could be determined by the Department of Education to be a change of control under this standard. Many states include the sale of a controlling interest of common stock in the definition of a change of control requiring approval. A change of control under the definition of one of these agencies would require us to seek approval of the change in ownership and control to maintain our accreditation, state authorization or licensure. The requirements to obtain such approval from the states and our accrediting commission vary widely. In some cases, approval of the change of ownership and control cannot be obtained until after the transaction has occurred. When a change of ownership resulting in a change of control occurs at a for-profit institution, the Department of Education applies a different set of financial tests to determine the financial responsibility of the institution in conjunction with its review and approval of the change of ownership. The institution is required to submit a same-day audited balance sheet reflecting the financial condition of the institution immediately following the change in ownership. The institution’s same-day balance sheet must demonstrate an acid test ratio of at least 1:1, which is calculated by adding cash and cash equivalents to current accounts receivable and dividing the sum by total current liabilities (and excluding all unsecured or uncollateralized related party receivables). In addition, the same-day balance sheet must demonstrate positive tangible net worth. If the institution does not satisfy these requirements, the Department of Education may condition its approval of the change of ownership on the institution’s agreeing to letters of credit, provisional certification, and/or additional monitoring requirements, as described in the above section on Financial Responsibility. A change of control also could occur as a result of future transactions in which Capella Education Company or Capella University is involved. Some corporate reorganizations and some changes in the board of directors are examples of such transactions. 23 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to the Extensive Regulation of Our Business If we fail to comply with the extensive regulatory requirements for our business, we could face significant restrictions on our operations and monetary penalties, including loss of access to federal loans and grants for our learners on which we are substantially dependent. As a provider of higher education, we are subject to extensive U.S. regulation on both the federal and state levels. In particular, the Higher Education Act, as reauthorized by the Higher Education Opportunity Act in August 2008, and related regulations impose significant regulatory scrutiny on Capella University, and all other higher education institutions that participate in the various federal student financial aid programs under Title IV of the Higher Education Act (Title IV programs). In 2009, we derived approximately 78% of our revenues (calculated on a cash basis) from Title IV programs, administered by the U.S. Department of Education. A significant percentage of our learners rely on the availability of Title IV program funds to cover their cost of attendance at Capella University and related educational expenses. These regulatory requirements cover virtually all phases of our operations, including educational program offerings, facilities, instructional and administrative staff, administrative procedures, marketing and recruiting, financial operations, payment of refunds to students who withdraw, commencement of new educational programs and changes in our corporate structure and ownership. The Higher Education Act, as reauthorized, mandates specific regulatory responsibilities for each of the following components of the higher education regulatory triad: (1) the U.S. federal government through the U.S. Department of Education; (2) independent accrediting agencies recognized by the U.S. Secretary of Education; and (3) state education regulatory bodies. The regulations, standards and policies of these regulatory agencies frequently change and are subject to interpretation, particularly where they are crafted for traditional schools rather than our exclusively on-line academic delivery model. Changes in, or new interpretations of, applicable laws, regulations, or standards could have a material adverse effect on our accreditation, authorization to operate in various states, permissible activities, receipt of funds under Title IV programs, or costs of doing business. We cannot predict with certainty how all of the requirements applied by these agencies will be interpreted or whether we will be able to comply with these requirements in the future. If we are found to be in noncompliance with any of these regulations, standards or policies, any one of the relevant regulatory agencies may be able to do one or more of the following: • impose monetary fines or penalties; • limit or terminate our operations or ability to grant degrees and diplomas; • restrict or revoke our accreditation, licensure or other approval to operate; • limit, suspend or terminate our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs or state financial aid programs; • require repayment of funds received under Title IV programs or state financial aid programs; • require us to post a letter of credit with the U.S. Department of Education; • subject us to other civil or criminal penalties; and/or • subject us to other forms of censure. In addition, in some circumstances of noncompliance or alleged noncompliance, we may be subject to qui tam lawsuits under the Federal False Claims Act. In these actions, private plaintiffs seek to enforce remedies 24 Table of Contents under the Act on behalf of the U.S. and, if successful, are entitled to recover their costs and to receive a portion of any amounts recovered by the U.S. in the lawsuit. These lawsuits can be prosecuted by a private plaintiff in respect of some action taken by us, even if the Department of Education does not agree with plaintiff’s theory of liability. Any of the penalties, injunctions, restrictions or other forms of censure listed above could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we lose our Title IV eligibility, we would experience a dramatic and adverse decline in revenue and we would be unable to continue our business as it currently is conducted. The reauthorization of the federal Higher Education Act in August 2008 includes substantially increased reporting and other requirements which may impair our reputation and adversely affect our enrollments. In addition, not all of these new requirements are clear on their face. Our failure to accurately interpret these new requirements may subject us to penalties and other sanctions imposed by the U.S. Department of Education. The Higher Education Opportunity Act, enacted on August 14, 2008, extends the Higher Education Act through September 30, 2013. Among other things, the Higher Education Opportunity Act imposes more than 100 new reporting requirements. Many of the Higher Education Opportunity Act provisions will be further specified in regulations promulgated by the U.S. Department of Education. The U.S. Department of Education currently is evaluating which provisions in the law should be the subject of regulation. This regulatory process may impose additional or apparently different reporting and other requirements on institutions that participate in Title IV programs. Some period will elapse before the U.S. Department of Education determines which provisions of the Higher Education Opportunity Act will be the subject of administrative rulemaking and issues final rules. In the interim, the uncertainty about various requirements of the Higher Education Opportunity Act will remain. Any failure by us to properly interpret the effect of the Higher Education Opportunity Act could subject us to the consequences, penalties and other sanctions imposed by the U.S. Department of Education discussed in the preceding risk factor, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The prospect of such sanctions may cause us to conservatively interpret the Higher Education Opportunity Act’s requirements pending interpretive guidance, which may limit our flexibility in operating or growing our business. If we are not recertified to participate in Title IV programs by the Department of Education or if the Department otherwise suspends or terminates our certification, we would lose eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. Capella University’s current certification to participate in Title IV programs expired on December 31, 2008. We timely submitted our Title IV recertification application to the Department of Education in September 2008 and our eligibility continues on a month-to-month basis until the Department of Education issues its decision on the application. Generally, the recertification process includes a review by the Department of Education of an institution’s educational programs and locations, administrative capability, financial responsibility, and other oversight categories. The Department of Education may also review our continued certification to participate in Title IV programs in the event we expand our activities in certain ways, such as opening an additional location or, in certain cases, if we modify the academic credentials that we offer. The Department of Education could limit, suspend or terminate our participation in Title IV programs for violations of the Higher Education Act or Title IV regulations. Title IV eligibility is critical to the continued operation of our business. If Capella University is not recertified or otherwise becomes ineligible to participate in Title IV federal student financial aid programs, we could not conduct our business as it is currently conducted and it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 25 Table of Contents Congress may change the law or reduce funding for Title IV programs, which could reduce our learner population, revenues and profit margin. Congress reviews and determines appropriations for Title IV programs on an annual basis through the budget and appropriations process. Any action by Congress that significantly reduces funding for Title IV programs or the ability of our school or learners to participate in these programs could reduce the ability of certain of our learners to finance their education, and could thereby have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Congressional action may also require us to modify our practices in ways that could increase our administrative costs and reduce our profit margin, which could also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If the U.S. Congress significantly reduced the amount of available Title IV program funding, we would attempt to arrange for alternative sources of financial aid for our learners. We cannot assure that one or more private organizations would be willing or able to provide loans to learners attending Capella University, or that the interest rate and other terms of such loans would be as favorable as for Title IV program loans or acceptable to our learners, and therefore our enrollment could be materially impacted. In addition, private organizations could require us to guarantee all or part of this assistance and we might incur other additional costs. If we provided more direct financial assistance to our learners, we would incur additional costs and assume increased credit risks, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The recently concluded negotiated rulemaking sessions and subsequent rulemaking by the U.S. Department of Education could result in regulatory changes that materially and adversely affect our business. In November 2009, the U.S. Department of Education convened two new negotiated rulemaking teams related to Title IV program integrity issues and foreign school issues. The negotiated rulemaking process addressed numerous topics, including, but not limited to: • standards regarding the payment of incentive compensation to employees involved in student enrollment; • establishing a definition of “gainful employment” for purposes of the foundational requirement for Title IV student financial aid that a program of study prepare students for gainful employment in a recognized occupation; • establishing requirements for institutions to be authorized by a state entity in order to provide educational programs beyond secondary education; and • the definition of a credit hour for purposes of determining program eligibility for Title IV student financial aid, particularly in the context of distance learning. The negotiated rulemaking process, which consisted of three meetings for each team, recently concluded without reaching consensus on several issues. In the next few months, it is anticipated the U.S. Department of Education will publish proposed rules in a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking for public comment. After the public comment period expires, the U.S. Department of Education must publish final regulations in the Federal Register on or before November 1, 2010 for the regulations to be effective July 1, 2011. We cannot predict the outcome of this rulemaking process at this time. These rules could affect the manner in which we conduct our business. Compliance with these rules, which if adopted could be effective as early as July 1, 2011, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 26 Table of Contents The Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Education has an ongoing compliance audit of Capella University which may result in repayment of Title IV funds, interest, fines, penalties, remedial action and damage to our reputation in the industry. The Office of Inspector General (OIG) of the U.S. Department of Education is responsible for, among other things, promoting the effectiveness and integrity of the Department of Education’s programs and operations. With respect to educational institutions that participate in the Title IV funding programs, the OIG conducts its work primarily through compliance audits and investigations. An OIG compliance audit typically focuses upon whether an institution administers federal funds in accordance with applicable rules and regulations, whereas an investigation typically indicates a concern regarding potential fraud or abuse involving federal funds. In our case, the OIG has conducted a compliance audit (and not an investigation) of Capella University. The period under audit is the Title IV award years of 2002-2003, 2003-2004 and 2004-2005 (with each award year commencing on July 1st). The audit commenced on April 10, 2006 and we subsequently provided the OIG with periodic information, responded to follow up inquiries and facilitated site visits and access to our records. The OIG completed its field work in January 2007 and we received a draft audit report on August 23, 2007. Capella University provided written comments on the draft audit report to the OIG on September 25, 2007. On March 7, 2008, the OIG’s final report was issued to the Acting Chief Operating Officer (COO) for Federal Student Aid (FSA), which is responsible for primary oversight of the Title IV funding programs. The Company responded to the final report on April 8, 2008. In 2009, the Company provided FSA staff with certain requested information for financial aid years 2002-2003 through 2006-2007. The FSA will subsequently issue final findings and requirements for Capella University. The FSA may take certain actions, including that we refund certain federal student aid funds, modify our Title IV administration procedures and pay fines or penalties. The audit primarily focused on whether we properly calculated the amount of Title IV funds required to be returned for learners who withdrew from Capella University without providing an official notification of withdrawal and without engaging in the course room prior to such withdrawal. In its final report, the OIG identified several such learners for whom it believes proper returns of Title IV funds were not made. Based on the final audit report, the most significant potential financial exposure from the audit relates to repayments to the Department of Education that could be required if the FSA concludes that the Company did not properly calculate the amount of Title IV funds required to be returned for learners that withdrew from Capella University without providing an official notification of such withdrawal and without engaging in the course room prior to such withdrawal. If the FSA determines that Capella University improperly withheld any portion of these funds, Capella University would be required to return the improperly withheld funds. We and the OIG have differing interpretations of the relevant regulations regarding what constitutes engagement in the unofficial withdrawal context. As we interpret the engagement requirement, we currently estimate that for the three year audit period, and for the subsequent aid years through 2007-2008, the total amount of Title IV funds not returned—for learners who withdrew without providing official notification and without engaging as required by the relevant regulations—was approximately $1.0 million including interest, but not including fines and penalties. As part of our internal process of continuously evaluating and attempting to improve our policies and procedures, prior to the initiation of the OIG audit we had already begun modifying our policies and procedures for determining whether a learner is engaged in course room activity. We developed these policies and procedures during spring 2006 and fully implemented them for the 2006-2007 financial aid year. Based on our review and interpretation of the applicable regulations, we believe that these revised policies and procedures appropriately measure whether or not a learner has engaged prior to withdrawal without providing official notification. However, the OIG is currently interpreting the relevant regulations to require a different measure of engagement in academic activity in such circumstances. If this difference of interpretation is ultimately resolved in a manner adverse to us, then the total amount of Title IV funds not returned for learners who withdrew without providing official notification would be greater than the amount we have currently estimated. 27 Table of Contents The audit also focused on our policies and procedures for disbursing Title IV funding to learners, and to a lesser extent on our communication to our learners of our satisfactory academic progress policy, our exit counseling for federal student loan recipients, and our review of learners’ financial aid histories prior to disbursing Title IV funding. See “Regulatory Environment—Regulation of Federal Student Financial Aid Programs—Compliance Reviews” for information about the OIG audit staff’s inquiries. Because of the ongoing nature of the OIG audit process, we can neither know nor predict with certainty the ultimate extent of the final audit findings, or the potential liability or remedial actions that might result. Such findings and related remedial action may have an adverse impact on our reputation in the industry, our cash flows and results of operations and our ability to recruit learners, and may have an adverse effect on our stock price. The possible effects of a finding of a regulatory violation (including refunds, fines, penalties and limitations, conditions, suspension or termination of our participation in Title IV programs) are described more fully in “Regulatory Environment—Regulation of Federal Student Financial Aid Programs—Potential Effect of Regulatory Violations.” If we fail to maintain our institutional accreditation or if our institutional accrediting body loses recognition by the U.S. Department of Education, we could lose our ability to participate in Title IV programs and lose our authorization to operate in a number of states. Capella University is accredited by The Higher Learning Commission of the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools, one of six regional accrediting agencies recognized by the Secretary of the Department of Education as a reliable indicator of educational quality. Accreditation by a recognized accrediting agency is required for an institution to become and remain eligible to participate in Title IV programs. In February 2008, we received a letter of reaffirmation from The Higher Learning Commission, effective through 2015. To remain accredited we must continuously meet certain criteria and standards relating to, among other things, performance, governance, institutional integrity, educational quality, faculty, administrative capability, resources and financial stability. Failure to meet any of these criteria or standards could result in the loss of accreditation at the discretion of The Higher Learning Commission. If the U.S. Department of Education ceased to recognize The Higher Learning Commission for any reason, Capella University would not be eligible to participate in Title IV programs beginning 18 months after the date such recognition ceased unless The Higher Learning Commission was again recognized or our institutions were accredited by another accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education. In December 2009, the OIG requested the U.S. Department of Education review the appropriateness of the U.S. Department of Education’s recognition of The Higher Learning Commission as an accrediting body, following the OIG’s unfavorable review of The Higher Learning Commission’s initial accreditation of a non-traditional, for-profit postsecondary educational institution. We cannot predict the outcome of the U.S. Department of Education’s review of The Higher Learning Commission’s recognition. Regardless of the outcome of the U.S. Department of Education’s review of The Higher Learning Commission, the focus by the OIG and the U.S. Department of Education on the process pursuant to which The Higher Learning Commission accredited a non-traditional, for-profit postsecondary educational institution may make the accreditation review process more challenging for Capella University during future review processes. If this occurs, we may have to incur additional costs and/or curtail or modify certain program offerings in order to maintain our accreditation, which could increase our costs, reduce our enrollment and materially and adversely affect our business. The loss of accreditation would, among other things, render our learners and us ineligible to participate in Title IV programs, reduce the marketability of a Capella degree, affect our authorization to operate in certain states and decrease student demand. If Capella University became ineligible to participate in Title IV programs, we could not conduct our business as it is currently conducted and it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 28 Table of Contents If Capella University does not maintain its registration in Minnesota, it may not operate or participate in Title IV programs or operate in a number of other states. A school that grants degrees, diplomas or certificates must be authorized by the relevant education agency of the state in which it is located. Capella University is deemed to be located in the State of Minnesota and is registered with the Minnesota Office of Higher Education. State registration is also required for our learners to be eligible to receive funding under Title IV programs. Such registration may be lost or withdrawn if Capella University fails to submit renewal applications and other required submissions to the state in a timely manner, or if Capella University fails to comply with material requirements under Minnesota statutes and rules for continued registration. Loss of state registration of Capella University from the Minnesota Office of Higher Education would terminate our ability to provide educational services as well as our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. Capella must also remain in good standing with the Minnesota Office of Higher Education to obtain and maintain authorization or licensure to operate in states outside of Minnesota. Should our registration with the Minnesota Office of Higher Education be terminated, our ability to operate in other states would also cease. We are subject to sanctions if we fail to correctly calculate and timely return Title IV program funds for learners who withdraw before completing their educational program. A school participating in Title IV programs must correctly calculate the amount of unearned Title IV program funds that have been disbursed to learners who withdraw from their educational programs before completion and must return those unearned funds in a timely manner, generally within 45 days of the date the school determines that the learner has withdrawn. Under Department of Education regulations, late returns of Title IV program funds for 5% or more of learners sampled on the institution’s annual compliance audit constitutes material non-compliance. If unearned funds are not properly calculated and timely returned, an institution may have to post a letter of credit in favor of the Department of Education or otherwise be sanctioned by the Department of Education. In September 2008, Capella University issued the Department of Education an irrevocable letter of credit in the amount of $1.1 million in connection with the amount of Title IV program funds that we returned for learners who withdrew from their educational programs before completion and without providing official notification of such withdrawal. In July 2009, the Company renewed the letter of credit through July 31, 2010 and increased the amount to $1.4 million. While issuance of this letter of credit did not have a significant impact on our cost of regulatory compliance, any future violations or sanctions could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. A failure to demonstrate “financial responsibility” may result in the loss of eligibility by Capella University to participate in Title IV programs or require the posting of a letter of credit to maintain eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. To participate in Title IV programs, an eligible institution must satisfy specific measures of financial responsibility prescribed by the Department of Education, or post a letter of credit in favor of the Department of Education and possibly accept other conditions on its participation in Title IV programs. The Department of Education may also apply such measures of financial responsibility to the operating company and ownership entities of an eligible institution and, if such measures are not satisfied by the operating company or ownership entities, require the institution to post a letter of credit in favor of the Department of Education and possibly accept other conditions on its participation in Title IV programs. Any obligation to post a significant letter of credit could increase our costs of regulatory compliance. If Capella University is unable to secure a letter of credit, it would lose its eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. In addition to the obligation to post a letter of credit, an institution that is determined by the Department of Education not to be financially responsible can be transferred from the “advance” system of payment of Title IV funds to cash monitoring status or to the “reimbursement” system of payment. Limitations on, or termination of, Capella University’s participation in Title IV programs as a result of its failure to demonstrate financial responsibility would limit Capella University’s learners’ access to Title IV program funds, which could significantly reduce our enrollments and revenues and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 29 Table of Contents A failure to demonstrate “administrative capability” may result in the loss of Capella University’s eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. Department of Education regulations specify extensive criteria an institution must satisfy to establish that it has the requisite “administrative capability” to participate in Title IV programs. These criteria require, among other things, that the institution: • comply with all applicable Title IV program regulations; • have capable and sufficient personnel to administer the federal student financial aid programs; • have acceptable methods of defining and measuring the satisfactory academic progress of its learners; • not have cohort default debt rates above specified levels; • have various procedures in place for safeguarding federal funds; • not be, and not have any principal or affiliate who is, debarred or suspended from federal contracting or engaging in activity that is cause for debarment or suspension; • provide financial aid counseling to its learners; • refer to the Department of Education’s Office of Inspector General any credible information indicating that any applicant, learner, employee or agent of the institution has been engaged in any fraud or other illegal conduct involving Title IV programs; • submit in a timely manner all reports and financial statements required by the regulations; and • not otherwise appear to lack administrative capability. If an institution fails to satisfy any of these criteria or comply with any other Department of Education regulations, the Department of Education may: • require the repayment of Title IV funds; • transfer the institution from the “advance” system of payment of Title IV funds to cash monitoring status or to the “reimbursement” system of payment; • place the institution on provisional certification status; or • commence a proceeding to impose a fine or to limit, suspend or terminate the participation of the institution in Title IV programs. If we are found not to have satisfied the Department of Education’s “administrative capability” requirements we could be limited in our access to, or lose, Title IV program funding, which would significantly reduce our enrollment and revenues and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to sanctions if we pay impermissible commissions, bonuses or other incentive payments to individuals involved in certain recruiting, admissions or financial aid activities. A school participating in Title IV programs may not provide any commission, bonus or other incentive payment to any person involved in learner recruiting or admission activities or in making decisions regarding the awarding of Title IV program funds based on success in enrolling learners or securing financial aid. The law and regulations governing this requirement do not establish clear criteria for compliance in all circumstances. If the U.S. Department of Education determined that our compensation practices violated these standards, the U.S. Department of Education could subject us to monetary fines, penalties, or other sanctions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 30 Table of Contents Our failure to comply with regulations of various states could result in actions taken by those states that would have a material adverse effect on our enrollments, revenues and results of operations. Various states impose regulatory requirements on educational institutions operating within their boundaries. Several states have sought to assert jurisdiction over online educational institutions that have no physical location or other presence in the state but offer educational services to learners who reside in the state, or that advertise to or recruit prospective learners in the state. State regulatory requirements for online education are inconsistent between states and not well developed in many jurisdictions. As such, these requirements change frequently and, in some instances, are not clear or are left to the discretion of state employees or agents. Our changing business and the constantly changing regulatory environment require us to continually evaluate our state regulatory compliance activities. In the event we are found not to be in compliance, and a state seeks to restrict one or more of our business activities within its boundaries, we may not be able to recruit learners from that state and may have to cease providing service to learners in that state. Capella University is subject to extensive regulations by the states in which it is authorized or licensed to operate. In addition to Minnesota, Capella University is authorized or licensed in 19 states for all or some of its programs because we have determined that our activities in these states constitute a physical presence or otherwise require authorization or licensure by the respective state higher educational agencies. In some cases, the licensure or authorization to operate is only for specific programs. In the majority of these states, Capella University has determined that separate licensure or authorization for its certificate programs is not necessary, although approval of certificate programs is required and has been obtained from certain states. State laws typically establish standards for instruction, qualifications of faculty, administrative procedures, marketing, recruiting, financial operations and other operational matters. State laws and regulations may limit our ability to offer educational programs and award degrees. Some states may also prescribe financial regulations that are different from those of the Department of Education. Capella University is required to post surety bonds in several states. If we fail to comply with state licensing or authorization requirements, we may be subject to the loss of state licensure or authorization. Loss of authorization in one or more states could increase the likelihood of additional scrutiny and potential loss of operating and/or degree granting authority in other states in which we operate, which would further impact our business. The inability of our graduates to obtain licensure in their chosen professional fields of study could reduce our enrollments and revenues, and potentially lead to litigation that could be costly to us. Certain of our graduates seek professional licensure in their chosen fields following graduation. Their success in obtaining licensure depends on several factors, including the individual merits of the learner, but also may depend on whether the institution and the program were approved by the state or by a professional association, whether the program from which the learner graduated meets all state requirements and whether the institution is accredited. Certain states have refused to license learners who graduate from programs that do not meet specific types of accreditation, residency or other state requirements. Specifically, certain states have refused to license learners from particular Capella University programs due to the fact that the program did not meet one or more of the state’s specific licensure requirements or were not approved by the state for purposes of professional licensure. We have had to respond to claims brought against us by former learners as a result of such refusal. Certain states have denied our graduates professional licensure because the Capella University program from which they graduated did not have a sufficient number of residency hours, did not include a state-approved clinical program, did not satisfy state coursework requirements, or was not accredited by a specific third party (such as the American Psychological Association). The state requirements for licensure are subject to change, and we may not immediately become aware of changes that may impact our learners in certain states. In the event that one or more states refuses to recognize our learners for professional licensure in the future based on factors relating to our institution or programs, the potential growth of our programs would be negatively impacted, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, we could be exposed to litigation that would force us to incur legal and other expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 31 Table of Contents We may lose eligibility to participate in Title IV programs if the percentage of our revenue derived from those programs is too high, which would significantly reduce our learner population. Under a provision of the Higher Education Act commonly referred to as the “90/10 Rule,” as revised by the August 2008 reauthorization of the Higher Education Act, a for-profit institution loses its eligibility to participate in Title IV programs if, on a cash accounting basis, it derives more than 90% of its revenue, as defined by the Higher Education Act and Department of Education Regulations, from Title IV programs in two consecutive fiscal years. An institution that violates this 90/10 Rule for two consecutive fiscal years becomes ineligible to participate in Title IV programs for a period of not less than two institutional fiscal years. An institution that derived more than 90% of its revenue from Title IV programs for any single fiscal year will be placed on provisional certification and will be subject to possible additional sanctions by the Department of Education. If an institution violated the 90/10 Rule and became ineligible to participate in Title IV programs but continued to disburse Title IV program funds, the Department of Education would require the institution to repay all Title IV program funds received by the institution after the effective date of the loss of eligibility. In 2009, under the regulatory formula prescribed by the Department of Education, we derived approximately 78% of our revenues (calculated on a cash basis) from Title IV programs. Recent changes in federal law that increased Title IV grant and loan limits, and any additional increases in the future, may result in an increase in the revenues we receive from the Title IV programs, which could make it more difficult for us to satisfy the “90/10 Rule.” In addition, economic downturns that adversely affect our learners’ employment circumstances could also increase their reliance on Title IV programs. If we lose our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs because more than 90% of our revenues are derived from Title IV program funds in any year, our learners would no longer be eligible to receive Title IV program funds under various government-sponsored financial aid programs, which would significantly reduce our enrollments and revenues and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to Our Business Our financial performance depends in part on our ability to keep pace with current market needs and to update and expand the content of existing programs and develop new programs and specializations on a timely basis and in a cost-effective manner. The updates and expansions of our existing programs and the development of new programs and specializations may not be accepted by existing or prospective learners or the employers of our graduates. If we cannot respond to changes in market requirements, our business may be adversely affected. Even if we are able to develop acceptable new programs, we may not be able to introduce these new programs as quickly as learners require or as quickly as our competitors introduce competing programs. In addition, we may be unable to obtain specialized accreditations or licensures that may make certain programs desirable to learners. To offer a new academic program, we may be required to obtain appropriate federal, state and accrediting agency approvals, which may be conditioned or delayed in a manner that could significantly affect our growth plans. In addition, to be eligible for federal student financial aid programs, a new academic program may need to be certified by the Department of Education. If we are unable to respond adequately to changes in market requirements due to regulatory or financial constraints, rapid technological changes or other factors, our ability to attract and retain learners could be impaired, the rates at which our graduates obtain jobs involving their fields of study could suffer, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. Establishing new academic programs or modifying existing programs requires us to make investments in management and capital expenditures, incur marketing expenses and reallocate other resources. We may have limited experience with the courses in new areas and may need to modify our systems and strategy or enter into arrangements with other educational institutions to provide new programs effectively and profitably. If we are unable to increase the number of learners, or offer new programs in a cost-effective manner, or are otherwise unable to manage effectively the operations of newly established academic programs, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. 32 Table of Contents Our financial performance depends on our ability to continue to develop awareness among, and attract and retain, working adult learners. Building awareness of Capella University and the programs we offer among working adult learners is critical to our ability to attract prospective learners. If we are unable to successfully market and advertise our educational programs, Capella University’s ability to attract and enroll prospective learners in such programs could be adversely affected, and consequently, our ability to increase revenue or maintain profitability could be impaired. It is also critical to our success that we convert these prospective learners to enrolled learners in a cost-effective manner and that these enrolled learners remain active in our programs. Some of the factors that could prevent us from successfully enrolling and retaining learners in our programs include: • the emergence of more successful competitors; • factors related to our marketing, including the costs of Internet advertising and broad-based branding campaigns; • performance problems with our online systems; • failure to maintain accreditation; • learner dissatisfaction with our services and programs, including with our customer service and responsiveness; • adverse publicity regarding us, our competitors or online or for-profit education generally; • price reductions by competitors that we are unwilling or unable to match; • a decline in the acceptance of online education or our degree offerings by learners or current and prospective employers; • increased regulation of online education, including in states in which we do not have a physical presence; • a decrease in the perceived or actual economic benefits that learners derive from our programs; and • litigation or regulatory investigations that may damage our reputation. If we are unable to continue to develop awareness of Capella University and the programs we offer, and to enroll and retain learners, our enrollments would suffer and our ability to increase revenues and maintain profitability would be significantly impaired. Strong competition in the postsecondary education market, especially in the online education market, could decrease our market share, increase our cost of acquiring learners and put downward pressure on our tuition rates. Postsecondary education, especially in the online market, is highly competitive. We compete with traditional public and private two-year and four-year colleges and other for-profit schools, as well as corporate universities and software companies providing online education and training software. Each of these competitors may offer programs similar to ours at lower tuition levels as a result of government subsidies, government and foundation grants, tax-deductible contributions and other financial sources not available to for-profit institutions. In addition, some of our competitors, including both traditional colleges and universities and other for-profit schools, have substantially greater name recognition and financial and other resources than we have, which may enable them to compete more effectively for potential learners and decrease our market share. It is also possible that some of our competitors may develop platforms or other technologies that are superior to the platform and technology we use and we may not have the resources necessary to acquire or compete with these technologies. We also expect to face increased competition as a result of new entrants to the online education market, including established colleges and universities that had not previously offered online education programs. Moreover, one or more of our competitors may obtain specialized accreditations that improve their competitive positions against us. 33 Table of Contents We may not be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors and may face competitive pressures that could adversely affect our business or results of operations. For example, as the market continues to mature, certain of our competitors have begun to reduce tuition rates. We may therefore be required to reduce our tuition or increase spending in response to competition to retain or attract learners or pursue new market opportunities. We may also face increased competition in maintaining and developing new marketing relationships with corporations, particularly as corporations become more selective as to which online universities they will encourage their current employees to attend and from which online universities they will hire prospective employees. These competitive factors could cause our enrollments, revenues and profitability to significantly decrease. System disruptions and vulnerability from security risks to our online computer networks could impact our business and financial performance and damage the reputation of Capella University, limiting our ability to attract and retain learners. The performance and reliability of our technology infrastructure is critical to our reputation and ability to attract and retain learners. Any system error or failure, or a sudden and significant increase in bandwidth usage, could result in the unavailability of our courseroom platform, damaging our business and financial performance and the reputation of Capella University. Our technology infrastructure could be vulnerable to interruption or malfunction due to events beyond our control, including natural disasters, terrorist activities and telecommunications failures. We have only limited redundancies in our core computer network infrastructure, which is concentrated in a single geographic area. If we experience a catastrophic failure or unavailability for any reason of our principal data center, we may need to replicate the function of this data center at our existing remote data facility or elsewhere, which may require expensive and time-consuming equipping and restoring activities. The disruption from such an event could significantly impact our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may experience interruptions or failures in our computer systems as a result of ongoing maintenance of and enhancements to our enterprise resource planning system, courseroom platform, and/or server system. Any interruption to our technology infrastructure could have a material adverse effect on our ability to attract and retain learners and could require us to incur additional expenses to correct or mitigate the interruption. Our computer networks may also be vulnerable to cyber attacks such as unauthorized access, computer hackers, computer viruses and other security problems and system disruptions. We engage with multiple security assessment providers on a periodic basis to review and assess our security. We utilize this information to audit ourselves to ensure that we are continually monitoring the security of our technology infrastructure, but it may still be vulnerable to threats. A user who circumvents security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in operations. As a result, we may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of these security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The personal information that we collect may be vulnerable to breach, theft or loss that could adversely affect our reputation and operations. Possession and use of personal information in our operations subjects us to risks and costs that could harm our business. Capella University collects, uses and retains large amounts of personal information regarding our learners and their families, including social security numbers, tax return information, personal and family financial data and credit card numbers. We also collect and maintain personal information of our employees in the ordinary course of our business. Some of this personal information is held and managed by certain of our vendors. Although we use security and business controls to limit access and use of personal information, a third party may be able to circumvent those security and business controls, which could result in a breach of student or employee privacy. In addition, errors in the storage, use or transmission of personal information could result in a breach of student or employee privacy. Possession and use of personal information in our operations also 34 Table of Contents subjects us to legislative and regulatory burdens that could require notification of data breaches and restrict our use of personal information. We cannot assure you that a breach, loss or theft of personal information will not occur. A breach, theft or loss of personal information regarding our learners and their families or our employees that is held by us or our vendors could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and results of operations and result in liability under state and federal privacy statutes and legal actions by state attorneys, general and private litigants, and any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may experience increased costs, reduced margins and an increase in bad debt expense if the proportion of our learners who are enrolled in our bachelor’s degree programs continues to increase. Our bachelor’s degree programs are currently growing at a faster rate than our doctoral or master’s degree programs. This bachelor’s degree growth has caused the proportion of our learners enrolled in bachelor’s degree programs to increase, while the proportion enrolled in our doctoral programs has decreased. This mix shift may continue in the future, and we may experience certain negative consequences, such as decreased revenue per learner, higher cost per new enrollment, lower retention rates and/or higher student services costs, higher default rates, an increase in our student loan cohort default rate, an increase in bad debt expense, an increase in the percentage of our revenue derived from Title IV funding under the 90/10 Rules, more limited ability to implement tuition price increases and other effects that may adversely affect our operating results. Similarly we could experience the same impact from other changes in our business model, such as a potential change to permit a deferred payment schedule for certain of our learners, or a change in the timing of financial aid disbursements. We may not be able to sustain our recent growth rate or profitability, and we may not be able to manage future growth effectively. Our ability to sustain our current rate of growth or profitability depends on a number of factors, including our ability to obtain and maintain regulatory approvals, our ability to attract and retain students, our ability to maintain operating margins, our ability to recruit and retain high quality academic and administrative personnel and competitive factors. If we do not sustain our growth rate in the bachelor’s degree program, in particular, or fail to transition students to our advanced degree programs, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, growth may place a significant strain on our resources and increase demands on our management information and reporting systems, financial management controls, and personnel, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We rely on exclusive proprietary rights and intellectual property that may not be adequately protected under current laws, and we encounter disputes from time to time relating to our use of intellectual property of third parties. Our success depends in part on our ability to protect our proprietary rights. We rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secrets, domain names and agreements to protect our proprietary rights. We rely on service mark and trademark protection in the United States and select foreign jurisdictions to protect our rights to the marks “CAPELLA,” “CAPELLA EDUCATION COMPANY,” and “CAPELLA UNIVERSITY,” as well as distinctive logos and other marks associated with our services. We rely on agreements under which we obtain rights to use course content developed by faculty members and other third-party content experts. We cannot assure you that these measures will be adequate, that we have secured, or will be able to secure, appropriate protections for all of our proprietary rights in the United States or select foreign jurisdictions, or that third parties will not infringe upon or violate our proprietary rights. Despite our efforts to protect these rights, unauthorized third parties may attempt to duplicate or copy the proprietary aspects of our curricula, online resource material and other content. Our management’s attention may be diverted by these attempts and we may need to use funds in litigation to protect our proprietary rights against any infringement or violation, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. 35 Table of Contents We may encounter disputes from time to time over rights and obligations concerning intellectual property, and we may not prevail in these disputes. In certain instances, we may not have obtained sufficient rights in the content of a course. Third parties may raise a claim against us alleging an infringement or violation of the intellectual property of that third party. Some third party intellectual property rights may be extremely broad, and it may not be possible for us to conduct our operations in such a way as to avoid those intellectual property rights. Any such intellectual property claim could subject us to costly litigation and impose a significant strain on our financial resources and management personnel regardless of whether such claim has merit. Our general liability and cyber liability insurance may not cover potential claims of this type adequately or at all, and we may be required to alter the content of our classes or pay monetary damages or license fees to third parties, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Legislation pending before Congress may make it easier and more desirable for employees to form unions, which may increase our costs. The Employee Free Choice Act is currently pending before Congress. If passed into law, this Act would make it easier for employees to organize unions and force companies to submit to binding arbitration for first contracts with newly formed unions. In addition, penalties for firing union backers would be significantly increased. Any efforts by our employees or faculty to form a union, whether or not successful, could increase our costs, which could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our learner population and revenues could decrease if the government tuition assistance offered to U.S. Armed Forces personnel is reduced or eliminated, if the tuition discounts which we offer to U.S. Armed Forces personnel are reduced or eliminated, or if our informal arrangements with any military bases deteriorate. Active duty members of the U.S. Armed Forces are eligible to receive tuition assistance from the government, which they may use to pursue postsecondary degrees. We offer tuition discounts generally ranging from 10% to 15% to all members of the U.S. Armed Forces and immediate family members of active duty U.S. Armed Forces personnel. During 2009, we provided approximately $5.0 million of such discounts. We also have non-exclusive agreements with various educational institutions of the U.S. Armed Forces pursuant to which we have agreed to accept credits toward a Capella University degree from certain military educational programs. These agreements generally may be terminated by either party upon 30 to 45 days’ notice. Additionally, we have informal arrangements with several military bases pursuant to which the bases make information about Capella University available to interested service members. Each of these informal arrangements is not binding on either party and either party could end the arrangement at any time. If our informal arrangement with any military base deteriorates or ends, our efforts to recruit learners from that base will be impaired. In the event that governmental tuition assistance programs to active duty members of the U.S. Armed Forces are reduced or eliminated, if our tuition discount program which we offer U.S. Armed Forces personnel and their immediate family members is reduced or eliminated, or if our informal arrangements with any military base deteriorates, this could materially and adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. If we do not maintain existing, and develop additional, relationships with employers, our future growth may be impaired. We currently have relationships with large employers to provide their employees with the opportunity to obtain degrees through us while continuing their employment. These relationships are an important part of our strategy as they provide us with a steady source of potential working adult learners for particular programs and also serve to increase our reputation among high-profile employers. If we are unable to develop new relationships, or if our existing relationships deteriorate or end, our efforts to seek these sources of potential working adult learners will be impaired, and this could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 36 Table of Contents Our business may be adversely affected by a further economic slowdown or recession in the U.S. or abroad or by an economic recovery in the U.S. The U.S. and much of the world economy are in a recession. In addition, homeowners in the U.S. have experienced an unprecedented reduction in wealth due to the decline in residential real estate values across much of the country. These events, particularly unemployment and residential real estate financing challenges, may reduce the number of courses taken simultaneously by each of our learners or otherwise reduce the demand for our programs and colloquia among learners, including among learners who receive financial aid and determine they are unwilling to incur additional debt during current economic conditions, regardless of financial aid availability. Further, these events may reduce the willingness of employers to sponsor educational opportunities for their employees. To the extent the economic downturn has increased demand for our programs, a subsequent economic recovery may eliminate this effect and reduce such demand as fewer potential students seek to advance their education. Any of these events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, these events could adversely affect the ability or willingness of our former learners to repay student loans, which could increase our student loan cohort default rate and require increased time, attention and resources to manage these defaults. Our current transition from the Federal Family Education Loan Program to the Federal Direct Lending Program may restrict or limit our learners’ access to federal student loans, thereby materially impacting our enrollment and revenue. Student loans under the Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP) are currently the most significant source of U.S. federal student aid and are low interest, federally guaranteed loans made by private lenders. In addition to FFELP loans made by private lenders, the U.S. Department of Education also administers the Federal Direct Loan Program (FDLP), which eliminates the private financial institution as the lender. Under the FDLP, the federal government makes the loans directly to the students on terms consistent with FFELP loans. In U.S. President Barack Obama’s 2010 budget request to Congress, the U.S. Department of Education proposed to eliminate FFELP loans and instead require all Title IV student loans to be administered through the FDLP commencing July 1, 2010. Beginning in September 2009, all new Capella University learners participating in Title IV programs have utilized FDLP. We anticipate transitioning all existing learners currently participating in FFELP to FDLP before July 1, 2010, regardless of the U.S. Department of Education proposal. However, we may experience a delay in the transition or a disruption in our ability to process student loans through FDLP, either because of administrative challenges on our part or the inability of the U.S. Department of Education to process the increased volume of direct student loans on a timely basis. In either case, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely and materially affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 