Risk Factors The Company’s sales, operating results and financial position are dependent on general economic conditions and other factors affecting consumer spending. The success of the Company’s operations depends to a significant extent upon a number of factors affecting disposable consumer income and consumer spending patterns, both nationally and internationally, including general economic conditions and factors such as employment, business conditions, interest rates and taxation. Uncertainty about current and future global economic conditions may cause the Company’s customers to defer or cancel purchases of the Company’s products. In addition, recessionary economic cycles, higher interest rates on consumer or business borrowings, restricted credit availability, inflation, higher levels of unemployment and consumer debt, higher tax rates or other economic factors may cause consumer confidence to decline, which could adversely affect the demand for the Company’s products. Consumer spending patterns may be affected by changes in the amount or severity of inclement weather, the acceptability of U.S. brands in international markets and the growth or decline of global footwear markets. If demand for the Company’s products declines, the Company’s sales and profit margins may also decline. 11 Table of Contents General economic conditions and regulatory factors such as those listed above, as well as increased costs of fuel, labor, commodities, insurance and health care, may increase the Company’s cost of sales and operating expenses, which may adversely affect the Company’s financial position and results of operations. The Company’s business will be adversely affected if the Company is not able to maintain its competitive position in the footwear industry, or compete effectively in retail and apparel markets. The Company competes with numerous other marketers of footwear, some of which are larger and have greater resources than the Company. Product performance and quality, including technological improvements, product identity, competitive pricing and the ability to adapt to style changes are all important elements of competition in the footwear industry. The footwear industry in general is subject to changes in consumer preferences with respect to the popularity of particular designs and categories of footwear. The Company strives to maintain and improve its competitive position through increasing brand awareness, gaining sourcing efficiencies, and enhancing the style, comfort and value of its products. Future sales by the Company will be affected by its continued ability to sell its products at competitive prices and to meet shifts in consumer preferences. If the Company is unable to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in consumer spending, the Company’s business, results of operations and financial position may be adversely affected. In addition, the Company has only recently begun to expand into apparel and has increased its focus on its consumer-direct initiatives. Many of its competitors in these areas have greater experience, a more developed consumer and customer base in these sectors, lower prices, or greater financial, technical or marketing resources than the Company. The Company’s competitors in these sectors may be able to undertake more effective marketing campaigns; adopt more aggressive pricing policies; make more attractive offers to potential employees, distribution partners and manufacturers; or may be able to respond more quickly to changes in consumer preferences, than the Company. If the Company’s consumer-direct or apparel initiatives are not successful, the Company’s business, results of operations and financial position may be adversely affected. If the Company is not able to manage its inventories effectively, its costs could increase and/or its sales could decrease, each of which could adversely affect its operating results. The Company’s ability to manage its inventories properly is an important factor in its operations. Inventory shortages can impede the Company’s ability to meet at-once orders and can adversely affect the timing of shipments to customers and diminish brand loyalty. Conversely, excess inventories can result in lower gross margins due to the necessity of lowering prices in order to liquidate excess inventories, as well as increased interest costs. If the Company is unable to effectively manage its inventory, its business, results of operations and financial position may be adversely affected. The potential imposition of additional duties, quotas, tariffs and other trade restrictions could have an adverse impact on the Company’s sales and profitability. All of the Company’s products manufactured overseas and imported into the United States, the European Union and other countries are subject to customs duties collected by customs authorities. Customs information submitted by the Company is routinely subject to review by customs authorities. Additional U.S. or foreign customs duties, quotas, tariffs, anti-dumping duties, safeguard measures, cargo restrictions to prevent terrorism or other trade restrictions may be imposed on the importation of the Company’s products in the future. The imposition of such costs or restrictions in foreign countries where the Company operates, as well as in countries where the Company’s third-party distributors and licensees operate, could result in increases in the cost of the Company’s products generally and could adversely affect the sales and profitability of the Company. In December 2009, the European Union approved a 15-month extension of anti-dumping duties on specific types of leather upper footwear originating in China and Vietnam and imported into member states of the European Union. Because the Company sources a substantial portion of its products from suppliers located in China and Vietnam, the imposition of these anti-dumping duties has negatively affected, and, for as long as such anti-dumping duties remain in effect, will continue to negatively affect, the Company’s sales and gross margin in the European Union. 12 Table of Contents The Company’s business could be adversely affected by changes in currency values. Foreign currency fluctuations relative to the U.S. dollar affect the Company’s revenue and profitability. In addition, because currency valuations fluctuate and the Company may employ hedging strategies over time, changes in currency exchange rates may impact the Company’s financial results positively or negatively in one period and not another, which may also make it difficult to compare the Company’s operating results from different periods. Currency exchange rate fluctuations may also adversely impact the third parties that manufacture the Company’s products by making their purchases of raw materials or other production costs more expensive and harder to finance and thereby raising prices for the Company, its distributors and licensees. For a more detailed discussion of risk relating to foreign currency fluctuation, see Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. A majority of the Company’s products are produced outside the United States where the Company is subject to the risks of international commerce. The Company currently sources most of its products from third-party manufacturers in foreign countries, predominantly China. As is common in the industry, the Company does not have long-term contracts with its third-party suppliers. There can be no assurance that the Company will not experience difficulties with such suppliers, including reduction in the availability of production capacity, failure to meet production deadlines or increases in manufacturing costs. The Company’s future results will depend partly on its ability to maintain positive working relationships with its third-party suppliers. Foreign manufacturing is subject to a number of risks, including work stoppages, transportation delays and interruptions, political instability, foreign currency fluctuations, changing economic conditions, expropriation, nationalization, the imposition of tariffs, import and export controls and other non-tariff barriers and changes in governmental policies. Various factors could significantly interfere with the Company’s ability to source its products, including adverse developments in trade or political relations with China or other countries where the Company sources its products, or China shifting its manufacturing capacity away from footwear and apparel to other industries. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial position and in particular on the Company’s ability to meet customer demands and produce its products in a cost-effective manner. Currency exchange rate fluctuations in China could result in higher costs and decreased margins. The Company sources a substantial portion of its products from China. The official exchange rate for conversion of the Chinese yuan was pegged to the U.S. dollar from 1994 to 2005. Beginning in 2005, the exchange rate for the yuan was linked to a trade-weighted basket of foreign currencies of China’s primary trading partners. The exchange rate is permitted to float each day up to 0.5% in either direction from the previous day’s close. As a result, the value of the yuan may increase incrementally over time. Such increases could significantly increase production costs of products the Company sources from China. Additional revaluations in the yuan could impact the prices the Company pays its Chinese manufacturers if they adjust their selling prices accordingly. Increases in the Company’s production costs will decrease its gross margin unless the Company is able to increase prices to offset such increased costs. Any disruption in the supply of key production materials could interrupt product manufacturing and increase product costs. The Company’s ability to competitively price its products depends on the cost of components, services, labor, equipment and raw materials, including leather and materials used in the production of footwear outsoles. The cost of services and materials is subject to change based on availability and market conditions that are difficult to predict. Conditions such as diseases affecting the availability of leather affect the cost of the footwear marketed by the Company. In addition, fuel prices and numerous other factors, such as the possibility of service interruptions at shipping and receiving ports, affect the Company’s shipping costs. Increases in cost for services and materials used in production could have a negative impact on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial position. 13 Table of Contents The Company purchases raw pigskins for its leathers operations from a single domestic source pursuant to short-term contracts. Although this source has been a reliable and consistent supplier for over 30 years, there are no assurances that it will continue as a supplier. Failure of this source to continue to supply the Company with raw pigskin or to supply the Company with raw pigskin on less favorable terms could have a negative impact on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial position, including increasing the Company’s cost of raw materials for its leathers business and as a result, decreasing the Company’s profits. If the Company’s customers significantly reduce their purchases from the Company or are not able to pay for its products in a timely manner, the Company’s business, results of operations and financial position may be adversely affected. The Company’s financial success is directly related to the willingness of its customers to continue to purchase its products. The Company does not typically have long-term contracts with its customers. Sales to the Company’s customers are generally on an order-by-order basis and are subject to rights of cancellation and rescheduling by the customers. Failure to fill customers’ orders in a timely manner could harm the Company’s relationships with its customers. Furthermore, if any of the Company’s major customers experience a significant downturn in its business, or fail to remain committed to the Company’s products or brands, then these customers may reduce or discontinue purchases from the Company, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial position. The Company sells its products to wholesale customers and extends credit based on an evaluation of each customer’s financial condition, usually without requiring collateral. The financial difficulties of a customer could cause the Company to stop doing business with that customer or reduce its business with that customer. The Company’s inability to collect from its customers or a cessation or reduction of sales to certain customers because of credit concerns could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial position. The recent trend toward consolidation in the retail industry could lead to customers seeking more favorable terms of purchase from the Company and could lead to a decrease in the number of stores that carry the Company’s products. In addition, changes in the channels of distribution, such as the growth of Internet commerce and the trend toward the sale of private label products by major retailers, could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial position. The Company has been awarded a number of U.S. Department of Defense contracts that include future purchase options for Bates® footwear. Failure to exercise these purchase options by the Department of Defense or the failure of the Company to secure future U.S. Department of Defense contracts could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial position. The Company’s consolidation of its manufacturing facilities in North America could disrupt manufacturing and supply of its products to customers, and any such disruption could adversely affect the Company’s ability to obtain future business. The Company has consolidated its manufacturing facilities in North America. The Company has ceased its manufacturing operations in Arkansas and relocated those operations to the Company’s facilities in Michigan. If the Company does not integrate the consolidation of its manufacturing facilities in an efficient manner, the manufacture and supply of certain of the Company’s products, including products intended for the U.S. Department of Defense, may be disrupted. Failure to fill orders in a timely manner due to the consolidation or other factors could harm the Company’s relationships with U.S. Department of Defense and other customers and adversely affect the Company’s ability to obtain future contracts with the U.S. Department of Defense and other customers on favorable terms or otherwise. 14 Table of Contents The Company’s financial success may be adversely affected by the ongoing effects of the recent crisis in the credit markets. Difficulties in the credit markets over the last 24 months have led to a substantial decrease in the availability of both consumer and business credit. Commercial banks are demanding that borrowers pay higher interest rates and agree to more onerous terms, and in other cases are refusing to provide financing. If these conditions continue or worsen, they could adversely impact the Company’s future results of operations and financial position. If the Company’s third-party distributors, suppliers and retailers are not able to obtain financing on favorable terms, or at all, they may delay or cancel orders for the Company’s products, or fail to meet their obligations to the Company in a timely manner, either of which could adversely impact the Company’s sales, cash flow and operating results. In addition, the lack of available credit and/or the increased cost of credit may significantly impair the Company’s ability to obtain additional credit to finance future expansion plans, or refinance existing credit, on favorable terms, or at all. The extent and duration of any future weakening of the credit markets is unknown. In addition, there can be no assurance regarding either the length of time it will take for the credit markets to recover or how successful any such recovery will be. The market price of the Company’s common stock may be adversely affected by market volatility. Market disruption and volatile credit and financial markets may contribute to extreme price and volume fluctuations in the stock market. This volatility could negatively affect the market price of Company’s common stock for reasons unrelated to its operating performance. Unfavorable findings resulting from a government audit could subject the Company to a variety of penalties and sanctions, and could negatively impact the Company’s future revenues. The federal government has the right to audit the Company’s performance under its government contracts. If a government audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, the Company could be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or debarment from doing business with U.S. federal government agencies. The Company could also suffer serious harm to its reputation if the government alleges that the Company acted in an improper or illegal manner, whether or not any such allegations have merit. If, as the result of an audit or for any other reason, the Company is suspended or barred from contracting with the federal government generally, or any specific agency, if the Company’s reputation or relationship with government agencies is impaired, or if the government otherwise ceases doing business with the Company or significantly decreases the amount of business it does with the Company, the Company’s revenue and profitability could decrease. The Company is also subject to tax, customs and other audits in various jurisdictions where it operates. Negative audit findings could have a negative effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial position. Failure of the Company’s international licensees and distributors to meet sales goals could have an adverse effect on the Company. The Company’s products are sold in many international markets through independent licensees or distributors. Failure by the Company’s licensees or distributors to meet planned annual sales goals could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial position, and it may be difficult and costly to locate an acceptable substitute distributor or licensee. If a change in distributors becomes necessary, the Company may experience increased costs, as well as substantial disruption and a resulting loss of sales and brand equity in the market where such distributors operate. The Company’s reputation and competitive position could suffer if its third-party manufacturers, distributors, licensees and others violate laws or fail to conform to the Company’s ethical standards. The Company requires its independent contract manufacturers, distributors, licensees and others with which it does business to comply with the Company’s standards relating to working conditions and other matters. If a party with which the Company does business is found to have violated the Company’s standards, the Company could receive negative publicity that could damage its reputation and negatively affect the value of its brands. 15 Table of Contents The Company’s business could be adversely affected by global political and economic uncertainty. Concerns regarding acts of terrorism, international conflict and subsequent events have created significant global economic and political uncertainties that may have material and adverse effects on consumer demand, foreign sourcing of footwear, shipping and transportation, product imports and exports and the sale of products in foreign markets, any of which could adversely affect the Company’s ability to source, manufacture, distribute and sell its products. The Company is subject to risks of doing business in developing countries and economically volatile areas. These risks include social, political and economic instability; nationalization of the Company’s assets and operations in a developing country by local government authorities; slower payment of invoices; and restrictions on the Company’s ability to repatriate foreign currency. In addition, commercial laws in these areas may not be well-developed or consistently administered, and new laws may be retroactively applied. Any of these risks could have an adverse impact on the Company’s prospects and results of operations in these areas. If the Company’s efforts to establish and protect its intellectual property are unsuccessful, the value of its brands could suffer. The Company invests significant resources to develop and protect its intellectual property, and believes that its trademarks and other intellectual property rights are important to its success. The Company’s ability to remain competitive is dependent upon its continued ability to secure and protect trademarks, patents and other intellectual property rights in the United States and internationally for all of its lines of business. The Company relies on a combination of trade secret, patent, trademark, copyright and other laws, license agreements and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect its intellectual property rights; however, some countries’ laws do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do U.S. laws. The Company’s business could be significantly harmed if it is not able to protect its intellectual property, or if a court found that the Company was infringing on other persons’ intellectual property rights. Any intellectual property lawsuits or threatened lawsuits in which the Company is involved, either as a plaintiff or as a defendant, could cost the Company a significant amount of time and money and distract management’s attention from operating the Company’s business. In addition, if the Company does not prevail on any intellectual property claims, the Company may have to change its manufacturing processes, products or trade names, any of which could reduce its profitability. In addition, some of the Company’s branded footwear operations are operated pursuant to licensing agreements with third-party trademark owners. These agreements are subject to early termination for breach. Expiration or early termination of any of these license agreements by the licensor could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial position. Loss of services of the Company’s key personnel could adversely affect its business. The Company is dependent on the efforts and abilities of its senior officers. While the Company believes that its senior management team has significant depth and that appropriate senior management succession plans are in place, the loss of one or more members of senior executive management or the failure to successfully implement succession planning could have an adverse effect on the Company, its results of operations and financial position. The Company’s future success also depends on its ability to identify, attract and retain additional qualified personnel. Competition for such employees in the footwear, apparel and retail industries is intense and failure to retain or attract key employees could adversely impact the Company. Inflationary and other pressures may lead to higher employment and pension costs for the Company. General inflationary pressures, changes in employment laws and regulations, and other factors could increase the Company’s overall employment costs. The Company’s employment costs include costs relating to health care benefits and benefits under the Company’s retirement plans, including a U.S.-based defined benefit plan. The annual cost of benefits can vary significantly depending on a number of factors, including changes in the assumed or actual rate of return on pension plan assets, a change in the discount rate used to measure pension obligations, a change in method or timing of meeting pension funding obligations and the rate of health care cost inflation. Increases in the Company’s overall employment and pension costs could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial position. 16 Table of Contents Disruption to the Company’s information technology systems could adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company’s technology systems are critical to the operations of its business. Any interruption, impairment or loss of data integrity or malfunction of these systems could severely impact the Company’s business, including delays in product fulfillment and reduced efficiency in operations. In addition, costs and potential problems and interruptions associated with the implementation of new or upgraded systems or with maintenance or adequate support of existing systems could also disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations. The Company is subject to risks associated with its growth strategy and acquiring other businesses. The Company completed two acquisitions in 2009 and may make other strategic acquisitions in the future, and the Company cannot provide assurance that it will be able to successfully integrate the operations of these newly-acquired businesses into the Company’s operations. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including risks inherent in entering new markets in which the Company may not have prior experience; potential loss of significant customers or key personnel of the acquired business; managing geographically-remote operations; and potential diversion of management’s attention from other aspects of the Company’s business operations. Acquisitions may also result in incurrence of debt, dilutive issuances of the Company’s equity securities and write-offs of goodwill and substantial amortization expenses of other intangible assets. The failure to integrate newly acquired businesses or the inability to make suitable strategic acquisitions in the future could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial position. The maintenance and growth of the Company’s business depends upon the availability of adequate capital. The maintenance and growth of the Company’s business depends on the availability of adequate capital, which in turn depends in large part on cash flow generated by its business and the availability of equity and debt financing. The Company’s current revolving credit agreement expires in July 2010, and the likelihood of replacing it on similar terms as favorable to the Company is limited. Distress in the financial markets over the past 24 months has had an adverse impact on the availability and cost of credit. The Company cannot provide assurance that its operations will generate positive cash flow or that it will be able to obtain equity or debt financing on acceptable terms or at all. Further, the Company cannot provide assurance that it will be able to finance any expansion plans. Expanding the Company’s brands into new markets may be difficult and costly, and if the Company is unable to successfully continue such expansion, its brands may be adversely affected. As part of its growth strategy, the Company seeks to enhance the positioning of its brands, to extend its brands into complementary product categories such as apparel, to expand geographically, to expand the Company’s owned retail operations and to improve operational performance. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to successfully implement any or all of these growth strategies, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial position. The Company has invested substantial resources into these strategies and the failure of one or more of these strategies could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial position. Counterfeiting of the Company’s brands can divert sales and damage its brand image. The Company periodically discovers products that are counterfeit reproductions of its products or that otherwise infringe on its intellectual property rights in its markets. The Company has not always been able to successfully stop production and sales of counterfeit products and infringement of the Company’s intellectual property rights. The actions the Company takes to establish and protect trademarks, patents and other intellectual property rights both inside and outside of the United States may not be adequate to prevent imitation of its products by others. If the Company is unsuccessful in challenging a party’s products on the basis of infringement of the Company’s intellectual property rights, continued sales of these products could adversely affect the Company’s sales, devalue its brands and result in the shift of consumer preference away from the Company’s products. 17 Table of Contents Changes in government regulation may increase the costs of compliance. The Company’s business is affected by changes in government and regulatory policies in the United States and on a global basis. New requirements relating to product safety and testing and new environmental requirements, as well as changes in interest rates, tax laws, duties, tariffs and quotas could have a negative impact on the Company’s ability to produce and market footwear at competitive prices. The disruption, expense, and potential liability associated with existing and future litigation against the Company could have a material adverse effect on its reputation, financial position and results of operations. The Company is a defendant from time to time in lawsuits and regulatory actions relating to its business. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and regulatory proceedings, the Company cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings. An unfavorable outcome could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial position and results of operations. In addition, regardless of the outcome of any litigation or regulatory proceedings, such proceedings are expensive and may require that the Company devote substantial resources and executive time to defend the Company. Provisions of Delaware law and the Company’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws could prevent or delay a change in control or change in management that could be beneficial to the Company’s stockholders. Provisions of the Company’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control of the Company. These provisions are intended to protect stockholders’ interests by providing the Board of Directors a means to attempt to deny coercive takeover attempts or to negotiate with a potential acquirer in order to obtain more favorable terms. Such provisions include a board of directors that is classified so that only one-third of directors stand for election each year. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 