Item 1A. Risk Factors. Current conditions in the global economy and the major industry sectors that we serve may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our business and operating results will continue to be affected by worldwide economic conditions and, in particular, conditions in the communications, computing, military/aerospace, industrial electronics, instrumentation, medical, high-durability commercial markets, and other significant industries we serve. As a result of continuing slow global economic 9 Table of Contents growth, uncertain consumer and business confidence, high levels of unemployment, reduced levels of capital expenditures, fluctuating commodity prices, bankruptcies and other challenges currently affecting the global economy, our customers may experience deterioration of their businesses, cash flow shortages, and difficulty obtaining financing. As a result, existing or potential customers may delay or cancel plans to purchase products produced by our customers which would have a material adverse effect on us. Further, our vendors may experience similar conditions, which may impact their ability to fulfill their obligations to us. If the global economic slowdown continues for a significant period or there is significant further deterioration in the global economy, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. There are risks in owning our common stock. The market price and volume of our common stock have been, and may continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations. These may arise from general stock market conditions, the impact of the risk factors described in this Annual Report on our financial condition and results of operations, a change in sentiment in the market regarding us or our business prospects or from other factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among other things, actual or anticipated variations in our operating results and cash flows, the nature and content of our earnings releases and our competitors’ earnings releases, announcements of technological innovations that impact our services, customers, competitors or markets, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, business conditions in our markets and the general state of the securities markets and the market for similar stocks, changes in capital markets that affect the perceived availability of capital to companies in our industry, the amount and frequency of share repurchases, governmental legislation or regulation, currency and exchange rate fluctuations, as well as general economic and market conditions. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. Limited trading volume of our common stock could affect the trading price by magnifying the effect of larger purchase or sale orders and could increase the trading price volatility in general. No prediction can be made as to future trading volumes of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. We may need additional capital in the future and it may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Looking ahead at long-term needs, we may need to raise additional funds for a number of purposes, including: • to fund our operations beyond 2011; • to fund working capital requirements for future growth that we may experience; • to enhance or expand the range of services we offer; • to increase our sales and marketing activities; or • to respond to competitive pressures or perceived opportunities, such as investment, acquisition and international expansion activities. If such funds are not available when required or on acceptable terms, our business and financial results could suffer. Further, if we attempt to obtain future additional financing, the issues facing the credit market could negatively impact our ability to obtain such financing. We may issue additional shares of common stock that may dilute the value of our common stock and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition to the approximately 20.2 million shares of our common stock outstanding at December 31, 2010, we may issue additional shares of common stock in the following scenarios: • up to approximately 2.7 million shares of our common stock may be required to be issued pursuant to outstanding and/or future equity compensation awards; • a significant number of additional shares of our common stock may be issued if we seek to raise capital through offerings of our common stock, securities convertible into our common stock, or rights to acquire such securities or our common stock. A large issuance of shares of our common stock, in any or all of the above scenarios, will decrease the ownership percentage of current outstanding stockholders and will likely result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. Any large issuance may also result in a change in control of DDi. The terms of our credit facility may restrict our financial and operational flexibility. The terms of our credit facility restrict, among other things, our ability to incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends or make certain other restricted payments, consummate certain asset sales, enter into certain transactions with affiliates, merge or consolidate with other persons, or sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all 10 Table of Contents of our assets. Further, we may be required to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial conditions. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and there can be no assurance that we will meet those tests. Substantially all of our assets, except equipment and real property, are pledged as collateral under our credit facility. We cannot assure that we will continue to pay dividends, and our dividends may not grow over time. In 2010, our board of directors adopted a cash dividend policy. The actual declaration of future cash dividends, and the establishment of record and payment dates, is subject to final determination by our board of directors each quarter after its review of our financial performance Our ability to pay dividends in any period will depend upon factors including satisfying the requirements under our revolving credit facility and applicable provisions of Delaware law. We cannot assure that we will pay any dividends on our common stock in the future. All dividend determinations (including the size and frequency of dividends) will depend upon, among other things, our future operations and earnings, capital requirements and surplus, general financial condition , contractual restrictions, alternative uses for our cash including acquisitions, and other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant. Our board of directors may change our dividend policy at any time, and from time to time. We are dependent upon the electronics industry, which is highly cyclical and suffers significant downturns in demand resulting in excess manufacturing capacity and increased price competition. The electronics industry, on which a substantial portion of our business depends, is cyclical and subject to significant downturns characterized by diminished product demand, rapid declines in average selling prices and over-capacity. This industry has experienced periods characterized by relatively low demand and price depression and is likely to experience recessionary periods in the future. Economic conditions affecting the electronics industry in general, or specific customers in particular, have adversely affected our operating results in the past and may do so in the future. The electronics industry is characterized by intense competition, rapid technological change, relatively short product life cycles and pricing and profitability pressures. These factors adversely affect our customers and we suffer similar effects. Our customers are primarily high-technology equipment manufacturers in the communications and computing, military and aerospace, industrial electronics, instrument, medical, and high-durability commercial markets of the electronics industry. Due to the uncertainty in the markets served by most of our customers, we cannot accurately predict our future financial results or accurately anticipate future orders. At any time, our customers can discontinue or modify products containing components manufactured by us, adjust the timing of orders and shipments or affect our mix of consolidated net sales generated from quick-turn and premium services revenues versus standard lead time production, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our customers are subject to economic cycles and fluctuations in product demand. A significant downturn in demand for our customers’ products would similarly affect demand for our products and as such, our sales, gross margin and operating performance would be adversely affected. Our customers that purchase PCB engineering and manufacturing services from us are subject to their own business cycles. Some of these cycles show predictability from year to year. However, other cycles are unpredictable in commencement, depth and duration. A downturn, or any other event leading to additional excess capacity, will negatively impact our sales, gross margin and operating performance. We cannot accurately predict the continued demand for our customers’ products and the demands of our customers for our products and services. As a result of this uncertainty, our past operating performance and cash flows may not be indicative of our future operating performance and cash flows. Unless we are able to respond to technological change at least as quickly as our competitors, our services could be rendered obsolete, which would reduce our sales and operating margins. The market for our services is characterized by rapidly changing technology and continuing process development. The future success of our business will depend in large part upon our ability to maintain and enhance our technological capabilities, to develop and market services that meet evolving customer needs and to successfully anticipate or respond to technological changes on a cost-effective and timely basis. In addition, the PCB engineering and manufacturing services industry could in the future encounter competition from new or revised technologies that render existing technology less competitive or obsolete or that reduce the demand for our services. It is possible that we will not effectively respond to the technological requirements of the changing market. To the extent we determine that new technologies and equipment are required to remain competitive, the development, acquisition 11 Table of Contents and implementation of such technologies and equipment may require us to make significant capital investments. It is possible that we will not be able to obtain capital for these purposes in the future or that any investments in new technologies will not result in commercially viable technological processes. We may experience significant fluctuation in our revenue because we sell primarily on a purchase order basis, rather than pursuant to long-term contracts. Our operating results fluctuate because we sell primarily on a purchase-order basis rather than pursuant to long-term contracts, and we expect these fluctuations to continue in the future. We are therefore sensitive to variability in demand by our customers. Because we time our expenditures in anticipation of future sales, our operating results may be less than we estimate if the timing and volume of customer orders do not match our expectations. Furthermore, we may not be able to capture all potential revenue in a given period if our customers’ demand for quick-turn services exceeds our capacity during that period. Because a significant portion of our operating expenses are fixed, even a small revenue shortfall can have a disproportionate effect on our operating results. We rely on a core group of significant customers for a substantial portion of our revenue, and a reduction in demand from, or an inability to pay by, this core group could adversely affect our revenue. Although we have a large number of customers, net sales to our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 27%, 30% and 30% of our net sales in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We may continue to depend upon a core group of customers for a material percentage of our net sales in the future. In addition, we generate significant accounts receivable in connection with providing services to our customers. If one or more of our significant customers were to become insolvent or otherwise were unable to pay us for the services provided, our results of operations and cash flows would be adversely affected. If we experience lower sales due to variability in customer demand, our gross margins may decline. We maintain our production facilities at less than full capacity to retain our ability to respond to quick-turn orders. However, if these orders are not received, we could experience losses due to excess capacity. Whenever we experience excess capacity, our revenue may be insufficient to fully cover our fixed overhead expenses and our gross margins would decline. Conversely, we may not be able to capture all potential revenue in a given period if our customers’ demands for quick-turn services exceed our capacity during that period. We are subject to intense competition, and our business may be adversely affected by these competitive pressures. The PCB industry is highly fragmented and characterized by intense competition. We principally compete with independent and captive manufacturers of complex quick-turn and longer-lead PCBs. Our principal competitors include other established public companies, smaller private companies and integrated subsidiaries of more broadly based volume producers that also manufacture multi-layer PCBs. We also expect that competition will increase as a result of industry consolidation. For us to be competitive in the quick-turn sector, we must maintain a large customer base, a large staff of qualified sales and marketing personnel, considerable engineering resources and proper tooling and equipment to permit fast turnaround of small lots on a daily basis. Some of our competitors and potential competitors may have a number of advantages over us, including: • significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and manufacturing resources; • preferred vendor status with some of our existing and potential customers; • more focused production facilities that may allow them to produce and sell products at lower price points; • more capital; and • larger customer bases. In addition, these competitors may have the ability to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies, be more successful in entering or adapting to existing or new end markets, adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements and devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. 12 Table of Contents If Asian-based production capabilities increase in sophistication, we may lose market share, and our gross margins may be adversely affected by increased pricing pressure. Price competition from PCB manufacturers based in Asia and other locations with lower production costs may play an increasing role in the PCB markets in which we compete. While PCB manufacturers in these locations have historically competed primarily in markets for less technologically-advanced products with high volumes, they are expanding their manufacturing capabilities to produce higher layer count and higher technology PCBs. In the future, competitors in Asia may be able to effectively compete in our higher technology markets, which may result in decreased net sales or force us to lower our prices, reducing our gross margins. Defects in our products could result in financial or other damages to our customers, which could result in reduced demand for our services and liability claims against us. We manufacture highly complex products to our customers’ specifications. These products may contain manufacturing errors or failures despite our quality control and quality assurance efforts. Defects in the products we manufacture, whether caused by a design, manufacturing or materials failure or error, may result in delayed shipments, increased warranty costs, customer dissatisfaction, or a reduction in or cancellation of purchase orders. If these defects occur either in large quantities or too frequently, our business reputation may be impaired. Since our products are used in products that are integral to our customers’ businesses, errors, defects or other performance problems could result in financial or other damages to our customers beyond the cost of the PCB, for which we may be liable in some cases. Although we generally attempt to sell our products on terms designed to limit our exposure to warranty, product liability and related claims, in certain cases, the terms of our agreements allocate to us substantial exposure for product defects. In addition, even if we can contractually limit our exposure, existing or future laws or unfavorable judicial decisions could negate these limitations of liability provisions. Product liability litigation against us, even if it were unsuccessful, would be time consuming and costly to defend. Although we maintain a warranty reserve, this reserve may not be sufficient to cover our warranty or other expenses that could arise as a result of defects in our products. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property or infringe or are alleged to infringe others’ intellectual property, our operating results may be adversely affected. We primarily rely on trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights will prevent unauthorized use of our technology. Our inability to protect our intellectual property rights could diminish or eliminate the competitive advantages that we derive from our proprietary technology. We may become involved in litigation in the future to protect our intellectual property or in defense of allegations that we infringe others’ intellectual property rights. These claims and any resulting litigation could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidate our property rights. In addition, these lawsuits, regardless of their merits, could be time consuming and expensive to resolve and could divert management’s time and attention. Any potential intellectual property litigation alleging our infringement of a third-party’s intellectual property also could force us or our customers to: • stop producing products that use the intellectual property in question; • obtain an intellectual property license to sell the relevant technology at an additional cost, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; and • redesign those products or services that use the technology in question. The costs to us resulting from having to take any of these actions could be substantial and our operating results could be adversely affected. Complying with applicable environmental laws requires significant resources and, if we fail to comply, we could be subject to substantial liability. Our operations are regulated under a number of federal, state, local and foreign environmental and safety laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the discharge of hazardous materials into the air and water, as well as the handling, storage and disposal of such materials. These laws and regulations include the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as well as analogous state and foreign laws. Compliance with these environmental laws is a major consideration for us because we use in our manufacturing process materials classified as hazardous such as ammoniacal etching solutions, copper and nickel. Our efforts to comply with applicable environmental laws require an ongoing and significant commitment of our resources. Over the years, environmental laws have become, and may in the future become, more stringent, imposing greater compliance costs on us. In addition, because we are a generator of hazardous wastes and our sites may become contaminated, we may be subject to potential financial liability for costs associated with an investigation and any remediation of such sites. Even if we fully comply with applicable environmental laws and are not directly at fault for the contamination, we may still be liable. The wastes we generate include spent ammoniacal etching solutions, solder stripping solutions and hydrochloric acid solutions containing palladium, waste water which contains heavy metals, acids, cleaners and conditioners and filter cake from equipment used for on-site waste treatment. 13 Table of Contents Violations of environmental laws could subject us to revocation of the environmental permits we require to operate our business. Any such revocations could require us to cease or limit production at one or more of our facilities, thereby negatively impacting revenues and potentially causing the market price of our common stock to decline. Additionally, if we are liable for any violation of environmental laws, we could be required to undertake expensive remedial actions and be subject to additional penalties. We depend on our key personnel and may have difficulty attracting and retaining skilled employees. Our future success will depend to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our key management, marketing, technical, financial, accounting and operational personnel, including Mikel H. Williams, our President and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of one or more key employees could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We also believe that our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain additional highly skilled managerial and technical resources. Competition for such personnel is intense. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. In addition, potential future facility shutdowns and workforce reductions could have a negative impact on employee recruiting and retention. Our manufacturing processes depend on the collective industry experience of our employees. If these employees were to leave and take this knowledge with them, our manufacturing processes may suffer, and we may not be able to compete effectively. Other than our trade secret protection, we rely on the collective experience of our employees to ensure that we continuously evaluate and adopt new technologies in our industry. If a significant number of employees involved in our manufacturing processes were to leave our employment and we are not able to replace these people with new employees with comparable experience, our manufacturing processes may suffer as we may be unable to keep up with innovations in the industry. As a result, we may not be able to continue to compete effectively. There may be shortages of, or price fluctuations with respect to, raw materials which could disrupt our operations or negatively impact our operating margins. To manufacture printed circuit boards, we use raw materials such as laminated layers of fiberglass, copper foil, chemical solutions, gold, and other commodity products, which we order from our suppliers. From time to time, we may experience increases in raw material prices, based on demand trends, which can negatively affect our gross margins. In addition, shortages of raw materials may occur in the future, which could negatively impact our ability to deliver our products on a timely basis. Such shortages of raw materials or increases in raw material prices could have a material adverse effect on our operating margins, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. If we are unable to maintain satisfactory capacity utilization rates, our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. Given the high fixed costs of our operations, decreases in capacity utilization rates can have a significant effect on our business. Accordingly, our ability to maintain or enhance gross margins depends, in part, on maintaining satisfactory capacity utilization rates. Our ability to maintain satisfactory capacity utilization depends on the demand for our products, the volume of orders we receive, and our ability to properly allocate the workload among our facilities in an efficient manner. If current or future production capacity fails to match current or future customer demands, or we fail to properly allocate the workload among our facilities, our facilities would be underutilized, which could result in decreased operating margins. We rely on suppliers for the timely delivery of materials used in manufacturing our PCBs, and an increase in industry demand or a shortage of raw materials may increase the price of the raw materials we use and may limit our ability to manufacture certain products and adversely impact our gross margins. To manufacture our PCBs, we use materials such as laminated layers of fiberglass, copper foil and chemical solutions which we order from our suppliers. Suppliers of laminates and other raw materials that we use may from time to time extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors, which could adversely affect our gross margins and our ability to deliver our products on a timely basis. In previous years we experienced, and may experience again, increases in the cost of materials, including laminate, copper products, gold, and oil-based or oil-derivative raw materials, which could adversely impact our gross margins. Some of our products use types of laminates that are only available from a single supplier that holds a patent on the material. Although other manufacturers of advanced PCBs also must use the single supplier and our OEM customers generally determine the type of laminates used, a failure to obtain the material from the single supplier for any reason may cause a disruption, and possible cancellation, of orders for PCBs using that type of laminate, which in turn would cause a decrease in our sales. 14 Table of Contents Our acquisition strategy involves numerous risks. As part of our business strategy, we have made and may continue to make acquisitions of, or investments in, companies, products or technologies that complement our current products, augment our market coverage, enhance our technical capabilities or production capacity or that may otherwise offer growth opportunities. In connection with our previous acquisitions or any future acquisitions or investments, we could experience: • problems integrating the purchased operations, technologies or products; • failure to achieve potential sales, materials costs and other synergies: • unanticipated expenses and working capital requirements, including those associated with assumed actual or contingent liabilities; • difficulty achieving sufficient sales to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions; • diversion of management’s attention; • adverse effects on business relationships with our or the acquired company’s suppliers and customers; • difficulty in entering markets in which we have limited or no prior experience; • losses of key employees, particularly those of the acquired organization; and • problems implementing adequate internal controls and procedures. In addition, in connection with any future acquisitions or investments, we could: • issue stock that would dilute our current stockholders’ percentage ownership; • incur debt and assume liabilities that could impair our liquidity; • incur substantial transaction-related costs, regardless of whether the proposed acquisition or investment is actually consummated; • incur amortization expenses related to intangible assets; or • incur large and immediate write-offs that would negatively impact our results of operations. Any of these factors could prevent us from realizing anticipated benefits of an acquisition or investment, including operational synergies, economies of scale and increased profit margins and revenue. Acquisitions are inherently risky, and any acquisition may not be successful. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions could harm our business and operating results in a material way. Damage to our manufacturing facilities due to fire, natural disaster, or other event could harm our financial results. We have manufacturing facilities in California, Colorado, Ohio, Virginia, and Ontario, Canada. The destruction or closure of any of our facilities for a significant period of time as a result of fire; explosion; blizzard; act of war or terrorism; or flood, tornado, earthquake, lightning, or other natural disaster could harm us financially, increasing our costs of doing business and limiting our ability to deliver our manufacturing services on a timely basis. Pending or future litigation could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We are involved, from time to time, in litigation incidental to our business. This litigation could result in substantial costs and could divert management’s attention and resources which could harm our business. Risks associated with legal liability are often difficult to assess or quantify, and their existence and magnitude can remain unknown for significant periods of time. In cases where we record a liability, the amount of our estimates could be wrong. In addition to the direct costs of litigation, pending or future litigation could divert management’s attention and resources from the operation of our business. While we maintain director and officer insurance, the amount of insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover a claim and the continued availability of this insurance cannot be assured. As a result, there can be no assurance that the actual outcome of pending or future litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. A trend toward consolidation among our customers could adversely affect our business. Recently, some of our large customers have consolidated and further consolidation of customers may occur. Depending on which organization becomes the controller of the supply chain function following the consolidation, we may not be retained as a preferred or approved supplier. In addition, product duplication could result in the termination of a product line 15 Table of Contents that we currently support. While there is potential for increasing our position with the combined company, the potential exists for decreased revenue if we are not retained as a continuing supplier. We also face the risk of increased pricing pressure from the combined customer because of its increased market share. We are exposed to the credit risk of some of our customers and to credit exposures in weakened markets. Most of our sales are on an “open credit” basis, with standard industry payment terms. We monitor individual customer payment capability in granting such open credit arrangements, seek to limit such open credit to amounts we believe the customers can pay, and maintain reserves we believe are adequate to cover exposure for doubtful accounts. During periods of economic downturn in the electronics industry and the global economy, our exposure to credit risks from our customers increases. Although we have programs in place to monitor and mitigate the associated risks, such programs may not be effective in reducing our credit risks. Our 10 largest customers accounted for approximately 27% of our net sales in 2010. Additionally, our OEM customers often direct a significant portion of their purchases through a relatively limited number of EMS companies. Our contractual relationship is often with the EMS companies, who are obligated to pay us for our products. Because we expect our OEM customers to continue to direct our sales to EMS companies, we expect to continue to be subject to the credit risk with a limited number of EMS customers. If one or more of our significant customers were to become insolvent or were otherwise unable to pay us, our results of operations would be harmed. Some of our customers are EMS companies located abroad. Our exposure has increased as these foreign customers continue to expand. Our foreign sales are denominated in U.S. dollars and are typically on the same “open credit” basis and terms described above. Our foreign receivables were approximately 17% of our net accounts receivable as of December 31, 2010 and may grow as a percentage of our total receivables. We do not utilize credit insurance as a risk management tool. The increasing prominence of EMS providers in the PCB industry could reduce our gross margins, potential sales, and customers. Sales to EMS providers represented approximately 39% of our net sales in 2010. Sales to EMS providers include sales directed by OEMs as well as orders placed with us at the EMS providers’ discretion. EMS providers source on a global basis to a greater extent than OEMs. The growth of EMS providers increases the purchasing power of such providers and could result in increased price competition or the loss of existing OEM customers. In addition, some EMS providers, including some of our customers, have the ability to directly manufacture PCBs. If a significant number of our other EMS customers were to acquire these abilities, our customer base might shrink, and our sales might decline substantially. Moreover, if any of our OEM customers outsource the production of PCBs to these EMS providers, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be harmed. Increasingly, our larger customers are requesting that we enter into supply agreements with them that have increasingly restrictive terms and conditions. These agreements typically include provisions that increase our financial exposure, which could result in significant costs to us. Increasingly, our larger customers are requesting that we enter into supply agreements with them. These agreements typically include provisions that generally serve to increase our exposure for product liability and warranty claims — as compared to our standard terms and conditions — which could result in higher costs to us as a result of such claims. In addition, these agreements typically contain provisions that seek to limit our operational and pricing flexibility and extend payment terms, which can adversely impact our cash flow and results of operations. We export military and commercial products from the United States to other countries. If we fail to comply with export laws, we could be subject to fines and other punitive actions. Exports from the United States are regulated by the U.S. Department of State and U.S. Department of Commerce. Failure to comply with these regulations can result in significant fines and penalties. Additionally, violations of these laws can result in punitive penalties, which would restrict or prohibit us from exporting certain products, resulting in significant harm to our business. We may not be able to fully recover our costs for providing design services to our customers, which could harm our financial results. 16 Table of Contents Although we enter into design service activities with purchase order commitments, the cost of labor and equipment to provide these services may in fact exceed what we are able to fully recover through purchase order coverage. We also may be subject to agreements with customers in which the cost of these services is recovered over a period of time or through a certain number of units shipped as part of the ongoing product price. While we may make contractual provisions to recover these costs in the event that the product does not go into production, the actual recovery can be difficult and may not happen in full. In other instances, the business relationship may involve investing in these services for a customer as an ongoing service not directly recoverable through purchase orders. In any of these cases, the possibility exists that some or all of these activities are considered costs of doing business, are not directly recoverable, and may adversely impact our operating results. We may have exposure to income tax rate fluctuations as well as to additional tax liabilities, which would impact our financial position. We are subject to taxes in the United States and Canada. Our effective tax rate is subject to fluctuation as the income tax rates for each year are a function of the following factors, among others: • the effects of a mix of profits or losses earned by us and our subsidiaries in numerous tax jurisdictions with a broad range of income tax rates; • our ability to utilize net operating losses; • changes in contingencies related to taxes, interest or penalties resulting from tax audits; and • changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such laws. Changes in the mix of these items and other items may cause our effective tax rate to fluctuate between periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. In addition, changes in the ownership of our common stock could further limit our ability to utilize our net operating losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. We are also subject to non-income taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in both the United States and Canada. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. Our tax determinations are regularly subject to audit by tax authorities, and developments in those audits could adversely affect our income tax provision. Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes may be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions, which could affect our operating results. We are subject to risks associated with currency fluctuations, which could have a material effect on our results of operations and/or financial condition. A portion of our cash and other current assets is held in the Canadian dollar. Changes in the exchange rates of the Canadian dollar and the U.S. dollar will affect the value of these assets as translated to U.S. dollars on our balance sheet. To the extent that we ultimately decide to repatriate some portion of these funds to the United States, the actual value transferred could be impacted by movements in exchange rates. Any such type of movement could negatively impact the amount of cash available to fund operations or to repay debt. In addition, a portion of our business operations are transacted in Canadian dollars, and as a result, similar changes in exchange rates of the Canadian dollar and the U. S. dollar could result in exchange losses, which could impact our results of operations. The impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations and/or financial condition cannot be predicted. We lease a number of our manufacturing facilities on leases that expire in the near future, and renewals or replacements of the leases may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. We lease approximately 56% of the building space we utilize for the manufacture of quick-turn PCBs and administrative purposes. Our lease agreements expire at various dates through 2015. There can be no assurance that we will be able to renew these leases on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to renew a lease, we would be required to relocate or close the affected manufacturing facility. Relocation of a manufacturing facility could result in significant exit costs with respect to the existing facility, the diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations, increased 17 Table of Contents expenses and capital expenditures associated with the relocation of the operations, difficulties in managing production and coordinating operations at the new site, a potential decrease in overall gross margins associated with the relocation. The closure of a facility could result in our recording restructuring charges such as severance, other exit costs, and asset impairments. If we are unable to provide our customers with high-end technology, high quality products, and responsive service, or if we are unable to deliver our products to our customers in a timely manner, our results of operations and financial condition may suffer. In order to maintain our existing customer base and obtain business from new customers, we must demonstrate our ability to produce our products at the level of technology, quality, responsiveness of service, timeliness of delivery, and at costs that our customers require. If our products are of substandard quality, if they are not delivered on time, if we are not responsive to our customers’ demands, or if we cannot meet our customers’ technological requirements, our reputation as a reliable supplier would likely be damaged. If we are unable to meet these product and service standards, we may be unable to obtain new contracts or keep our existing customers, and this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If events or circumstances occur in our business that indicate our goodwill and definite-lived intangibles may not be recoverable, we could incur impairment charges that would negatively affect our earnings. As of December 31, 2010, our consolidated balance sheet reflected $4.3 million of goodwill and definite-lived intangible assets. We periodically evaluate whether events and circumstances have occurred, such that the potential for reduced expectations for future cash flows coupled with further decline in the market price of our stock and market capitalization may indicate that the remaining balance of goodwill and definite-lived intangible assets may not be recoverable. If factors indicate that assets are impaired, we would be required to reduce the carrying value of our goodwill and definite-lived intangible assets, which could harm our results during the periods in which such a reduction is recognized. Our goodwill and definite-lived intangible assets may increase in future periods if we consummate other acquisitions. Amortization or impairment of these additional intangibles would, in turn, reduce our earnings. A significant portion of our business is derived from products and services ultimately sold to the U.S. government by our customers. Changes affecting the government’s capacity to do business with us or our direct customers or the effects of competition in the defense industry could have a material adverse effect on our business. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from products and services ultimately sold to the U.S. government and is therefore affected by, among other things, the federal budget process. We are a supplier, primarily as a subcontractor, to the U.S. government and its agencies as well as foreign governments and agencies. These contracts are subject to the respective customers’ political and budgetary constraints and processes, changes in customers’ short-range and long-range strategic plans, the timing of contract awards, and in the case of contracts with the U.S. government, the congressional budget authorization and appropriation processes, the government’s ability to terminate contracts for convenience or for default, as well as other risks such as contractor suspension or debarment in the event of certain violations of legal and regulatory requirements. Additionally, defense expedite (DX)-rated orders from the U.S. federal government, which by law receive priority, can interrupt scheduled shipments to our other customers. The termination or failure to fund one or more significant contracts by the U.S. government could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or prospects. Our business has benefited from OEMs deciding to outsource their PCB manufacturing needs to us. If OEMs choose to provide these services in-house or select other providers, our business could suffer. Our future revenue growth partially depends on new outsourcing opportunities from OEMs. Current and prospective customers continuously evaluate our performance against other providers. They also evaluate the potential benefits of manufacturing their products themselves. To the extent that outsourcing opportunities are not available either due to OEM decisions to produce these products themselves or to use other providers, our financial results and future growth could be adversely affected. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our business could be negatively affected. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, growth in the scope and complexity of our operations. This growth may strain our managerial, financial, manufacturing, and other resources. In order to manage our growth, we may be required to continue to implement additional operating and financial controls and hire and train additional personnel. There 18 Table of Contents can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future, and failure to do so could jeopardize our expansion plans and seriously harm our operations. In addition, growth in our capacity could result in reduced capacity utilization and a corresponding decrease in gross margins. Our development plans involve significant capital expenditures and financing requirements, which are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Our business is capital intensive. Our ability to increase revenue, profit, and cash flow depends upon continued capital spending. There can be no assurance as to whether — or at what cost — our anticipated capital projects will be completed, if they will be completed on schedule, or as to the success of these projects if completed. In addition, we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations or obtain necessary external financing to finance our capital expenditures and investments. Further, our ability to obtain external financing in the future is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including the following: • our future results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows; • the condition of the global economy generally and the demand for our products, specifically; and • the cost of financing and the condition of financial markets. If adequate funds are not available on satisfactory terms, we may be forced to curtail our expansion plans, which could result in a loss of customers, the inability to successfully implement our business strategy, and limitations on the growth of our business. Our business and operations could be adversely impacted by climate change initiatives. Our manufacturing processes require that we purchase significant quantities of energy from third parties, which results in the generation of greenhouse gases, either directly on-site or indirectly at electric utilities. Both domestic and international legislation to address climate change by reducing greenhouse gas emissions and establishing a price on carbon could create increases in energy costs and price volatility. Considerable international attention is now focused on development of an international policy framework to guide international action to address climate change. Proposed and existing legislative efforts to control or limit greenhouse gas emissions could affect our energy source and supply choices as well as increase the cost of energy and raw materials derived from sources that generate greenhouse gas emissions. A material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could harm our financial condition and operating results. If one of our manufacturing facilities were to be shut down unexpectedly, or certain of our manufacturing operations within an otherwise operational facility were to cease production unexpectedly, our revenue and profit margins would be adversely affected. Such a disruption could be caused by a number of different events, including: • maintenance outages; • information technology systems outages or disruptions; • prolonged power failures; • an equipment failure; • fires, floods, earthquakes or other catastrophes; • potential unrest or terrorist activity; • labor difficulties; or • other operational problems. If any of these or other events were to result in a material disruption of our manufacturing operations, our ability to meet our production capacity targets and satisfy customer requirements may be impaired. We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these laws. Despite our compliance program, we 19 Table of Contents cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures always will protect us from reckless or negligent acts committed by our employees or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, may have a negative effect on our results of operations, financial condition and reputation. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 