Risk Factors 18 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 34 Item 2 Properties 34 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 35 Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 35 PART II Item 5 Market for the Registrant’s Common Stock, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 35 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 36 Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 38 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk 53 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 56 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 56 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 56 Item 9B Other Information 56 PART III 56 Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 56 Item 11 Executive Compensation 56 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 56 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 57 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 57 PART IV 57 Item 15 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K 57 Signatures Index to Consolidated Financial Statements F-1 Exhibit Index Table of Contents PART I As used in this report, references to “us”, “we”, “our”, “our company”, “Sohu” and “Sohu.com” are to Sohu.com Inc. and, except where the context requires otherwise, our subsidiaries, Sohu.com (Hong Kong) Limited (or Sohu Hong Kong), Sohu.com Limited, Kylie Enterprises Limited, All Honest International Limited, Marvel Hero Limited, Go2Map Inc., Sohu.com (Search) Limited, Sogou Inc., Sogou (BVI) Limited, 21 East Entertainment Limited (or 21 East HK), Sohu ITC Information Technology (Beijing) Co., Ltd. (or Beijing ITC), Beijing Sohu New Era Information Technology Co., Ltd. (or Sohu Era), Beijing Sohu Interactive Software Co., Ltd. (or Sohu Software), Go2Map Software (Beijing) Co., Ltd. (or Go2Map Software), Beijing Sogou Technology Development Co., Ltd. (or Sogou Technology) and Beijing Sohu New Media Information Technology Co., Ltd. (or Sohu Media), and our variable interest entities (or VIEs) Beijing Century High Tech Investment Co., Ltd. (or High Century), Beijing Sohu Entertainment Culture Media Co., Ltd. (or Sohu Entertainment, formerly known as Beijing Hengda Yitong Internet Technology Development Co., Ltd ,or Hengda), Beijing Sohu Internet Information Service Co., Ltd. (or Sohu Internet), Beijing Goodfeel Information Technology Co., Ltd. (or Goodfeel), Beijing Huohu Digital Technology Co., Ltd. (or Huohu), Beijing Tu Xing Tian Xia Information Consultancy Co., Ltd. (or Tu Xing Tian Xia), Beijing Feng Yang Tian Lang Advertising Co., Ltd. (or Feng Yang Tian Lang), Beijing Sogou Information Services Co., Ltd. (or Sogou Information), Guangzhou Sohu Interactive Network Technology Co., Ltd. (or Guangzhou Interactive) and Beijing 21 East Culture Development Co., Ltd (21 East Beijing), and these references should be interpreted accordingly. Unless otherwise specified, references to “China” or “PRC” refer to the People’s Republic of China and do not include the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, the Macau Special Administrative Region or Taiwan. This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including, without limitation, statements regarding our expectations, beliefs, intentions or future strategies that are signified by the words “expect”, “anticipate”, “intend”, “believe”, or similar language. All forward-looking statements included in this document are based on information available to us on the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements. Our business and financial performance are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. In evaluating our business, you should carefully consider the information set forth below under the caption “Risk Factors”. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Sohu is one of China’s premier Internet media companies providing millions of Chinese consumers with their daily source of information, entertainment and communication. We have built one of the most comprehensive matrices of Chinese languages Web properties and proprietary search engines, consisting of: • www.sohu.com, a leading mass portal and online media destination; • www.sogou.com, an interactive proprietary search engine with an expanded database capacity of more than ten billion retrieved web pages; • www.chinaren.com, a leading online alumni club; • www.17173.com, a leading games information portal; • www.focus.cn, a top real estate Website; • www.goodfeel.com.cn, a wireless service provider; and • www.go2map.com, one of the leading online mapping service providers. Sohu corporate services consist of brand advertising on its matrix of Websites as well as paid listing and bid listing on its in-house developed search directory and engines. Sohu also offers two types of consumer services. Sohu offers wireless value-added services such as news, information, music, ringtone and picture content sent over mobile phones. The company also operates a massive multi-player online role-playing game and a casual game platform. We were incorporated in Delaware in August 1996 as Internet Technologies China Incorporated, and launched our original Website, itc.com.cn, in January 1997. During 1997, we developed the Sohu online directory and search engine and related technology infrastructure, and also focused on recruiting personnel, raising capital and aggregating content to attract and retain users. In February 1998, we re-launched our Website under the domain name Sohu.com and, in September 1999, we renamed our company Sohu.com Inc. On October 18, 2000, we completed the acquisition of ChinaRen, the leading youth community Website in China. On November 24, 2003, we completed the acquisition of Kylie Enterprises Limited, the owner of 17173.com, a Website providing information about multiplayer online games in China. On November 25, 2003, we completed the acquisition of All Honest International Limited, the owner of Focus.cn, a Website providing information about real estate in Beijing and Shanghai. On May 31, 2004, we completed the acquisition of Marvel Hero Limited and Goodfeel, a leading provider of value-added mobile data services for Wireless Application Protocol, or WAP, in China. On May 31, 2005, we completed the acquisition of Go2Map Inc. (and its affiliate, Tu Xing Tian Xia) one of the leading online mapping service providers in China. On November 1, 2006, we completed the acquisition of 21 East HK and its subsidiary 21 East Beijing, an entertainment provider in China. Through our acquisition and successful integration of these companies, we have built one of the most comprehensive networks of Web properties in China. 2 Table of Contents Substantially all of our operations are conducted through our indirect wholly owned PRC subsidiaries, Sohu Era, Sohu Software, Go2Map Software, Sogou Technology and Sohu Media and our VIEs, High Century, Sohu Entertainment, Sohu Internet, Goodfeel, Huohu, Tu Xing Tian Xia, Feng Yang Tian Lang, Sogou Information, Guangzhou Interactive and 21 East Beijing. Since our inception, our business model has expanded to include other major business lines, including brand advertising, sponsored search, wireless services and other businesses, including online games. We derive revenues from the sale of brand advertising, sponsored search, wireless and online game services. In 2000, we started the e-commerce business, selling consumer products through store.sohu.com. We discontinued the e-commerce business on June 20, 2006 in order to focus on profitable segments. In 2001, we began to provide wireless services for mobile phone users through sms.sohu.com. We then expanded our wireless services to include short messaging services, or SMS, Wireless Application Protocol, or WAP, multimedia messaging services, or MMS, Ring Back Tone, or RBT and interactive voice response, or IVR. In 2003, we launched our first multiplayer online game, Knight Online. Because the license to Knight Online expired in November 2006, we discontinued the operation of the game since then. In 2004, we launched our second multiplayer online game, Blade Online. In August 2004, developed from the existing directory search capabilities, we introduced our new, all-inclusive, proprietary search engine under the brand name Sogou through Sogou.com. On January 1, 2007, we announced the launch of Sogou version 3.0, which offers further enhanced updating speeds, shortened search times and more accurate search results, based on an expanded database capacity of more than ten billion retrieved web pages. Official Internet Content Service Sponsor for Beijing 2008 Olympic Games In November 2005, we were selected as the official sponsor of Internet Content Services (or ICS) for the Beijing 2008 Olympic Games. According to the sponsorship agreement we entered into with the Beijing Organizing Committee for the Games of the XXIX Olympiad (or BOCOG), we will provide exclusive services to BOCOG to construct, operate and host the official BOCOG Website, www.beijing2008.com, for this historic event. Our Web Properties We have matrices of seven Web properties, with Sohu.com being the Website attracting the highest level of Internet traffic. On all of our Websites, we offer basic content to our users on a free of charge basis. Mass Portal - Sohu.com Sohu.com’s portal consists of sophisticated Chinese language Web navigational capabilities, 31 main content channels, Web-based communications and community services and short messaging services. Each of our interest-specific main channels contains multi-level sub-channels that cover a comprehensive range of topics, including news, business, entertainment and sports. We also offer free Web-based e-mail services. We offer a universal registration system, whereby a user that has registered for our e-mail service is automatically registered for our chat, bulletin board and other services. Our portal attracts consumers and merchants alike because it is designed to meet the specific needs and interests of Internet users in China. Key features of our portal include proprietary Web navigational capabilities that reflect particular cultural characteristics and viewing habits of PRC Internet users. Proprietary Search Engine - Sogou.com Sogou, which means “Search Dog”, is Sohu’s proprietary search engine launched in August 2004. Sogou performs interactive searches of billions of Web pages using advanced algorithms. The user is taken through a fast and convenient interactive process to arrive at the most relevant selection of the integrated Website and page search results. On February 25, 2005, we launched our upgraded search engine Sogou 2.0 with an expanded breadth of one billion Chinese language indexed web pages, higher updating speed and shorter search time. In November 2005, we announced the launch of Sogou version 2.5, a further upgrade for our proprietary search engine. This upgraded Sogou 2.5 was more sophisticated with advanced spider technology and more intelligent in terms of crawling, selecting and ranking capabilities so as to provide more relevant, accurate and up-to-date Web search results. On January 1, 2007, we announced the launch of Sogou 3.0, a newly upgraded version for our intelligent search engine. This new version of Sogou can provide our users with higher updating speeds, shortened search times and more accurate search results based on an expanded database capacity of more than ten billion retrieved pages. We intend to integrate Sogou 3.0 with the content strength of our comprehensive Internet platform and our community based product offering, which will enable us to obtain knowledge of our users’ online habits and interests, in order to optimize the overall search experience for our users. Vertical Sites Chinaren.com We acquired ChinaRen in October 2000. ChinaRen is the largest online youth community in China, with over seventy-seven million registered users as of December 2006. Schools and universities in China generally do not have alumni offices to cater to the needs of former students to organize their classes into long-term communities. As in other Asian societies, Chinese people hold strong ties of 3 Table of Contents friendship and loyalty with their fellow alumni, which form the basis of their personal and professional relationship networks. ChinaRen has leveraged a critical mass of loyal users to create one of the leading on-line alumni networks in China. 17173.com The Sohu games portal www.17173.com was launched in 2000 as the first online games portal in China and was acquired by Sohu in November 2003. 17173.com is a leading online destination for game players seeking information on games and feedback from other players on the site’s message boards. With over 100 game zones and millions of registered users supported by alliances with over 10,000 Internet cafés, 17173.com is the largest online games information and community Website in China. The games portal www.17173.com is widely recognized as a market leader among the games Websites in China, with strong expertise in running the Website, building a game community and developing relationships with advertising clients in the online games industry. Focus.cn Focus.cn is one of the leading real estate Websites in China. Focus.cn attracts many users who are homeowners with high incomes and real estate professionals. Launched in 1999, Focus.cn has developed into what we believe is one of the most influential Websites serving the Beijing market. The Focus.cn platform serves as a basis for regional expansion in other key urban areas where Internet penetration is highest in China. As of December 31, 2006, the Website has successfully rolled out into 16 cities. Goodfeel.com.cn Goodfeel is a leading WAP service provider in China, offering various WAP services including ring tone and picture download. Goodfeel.com was founded in November 2001 and was acquired by us in May 2004. Goodfeel has since been integrated with our WAP business. We believe it is important for Sohu to maintain a presence on the wireless side, and more specifically in WAP, in anticipation of the imminent launch of the third generation of mobile networks in China in the future and the burgeoning market that it will bring. Go2Map.com Go2Map is one of the leading online mapping services providers in China founded in 1999. Go2Map mapping information platform enables online mapping services through different Internet/Intranet platforms, mobile phones, call centers and PDAs. Go2Map’s database covers points of interests in more than 307 cities across China, which has enabled it to develop multiple business applications, including sales of software and map information resources. Go2Map also provides Web surfers a free online mapping inquiry system in large Chinese cities. We acquired Go2Map in May 2005 and believe that Go2Map’s expertise in professional location-based information will enhance our search engine capabilities as well as online Website content. Our Products and Services Products and Services for Businesses Brand Advertising In brand advertising, we enjoy a strong competitive position as one of the top portals in China. We provide brand advertising services across our matrices of Web properties. Our offerings enable advertisers to post their advertisements in different forms, including textual, rich media and graphic advertisements, and in different locations on the Sohu matrix of Web properties. Our brand advertising products include but are not limited to banners, links, logos, buttons and stream advertisements placed on our Websites and sponsorships that typically focus on a particular event or a particular Website area. We charge advertisers daily or hourly rates for banners, links, logos, buttons and stream advertisements. Sponsorship contracts for a particular area of a Website or for a particular event may require fixed payments over the contract period. Our standard advertising charges vary depending on the terms of the contract and the advertisement’s location within our Website. Discounts from standard rates are typically provided for higher-volume, longer-term advertising contracts, and may be provided for promotional purposes. We rely on both direct sales by our internal sales force and sales by advertising agents for advertising on our Websites. During the year ended December 31, 2006, approximately 850 companies advertised on our Websites. Our customers include multinational companies that have significant operations in Chinese markets, many of which are Fortune 500 companies, as well as numerous Chinese domestic companies, which are mainly large or medium size companies. We plan to continue focusing on multinational and Chinese domestic companies as our key advertisers. In 2006, our five largest advertisers accounted for approximately 14% of total brand advertising revenues. Sohu has entered into agreements with each of these advertisers. Most of these agreements have terms of less than 12 months. 4 Table of Contents The focus of our marketing strategy is to generate brand and product awareness for Sohu.com in China with advertisers, Internet users and the general public. During the year ended December 31, 2006, we spent approximately $10.6 million in advertising expenses. As a pioneer of the PRC Internet industry, we have been able to generate substantial public awareness of Sohu in China. As of December 31, 2006, we had obligations to provide, and advertisers had obligations to purchase, advertising services under existing contracts in the amount of $3.4 million, of which $2.0 million of services were required to be provided during the year ended December 31, 2007. Sponsored Search We offer a series of sponsored search offerings, aiming at small and medium sized enterprises that pay fees to list on our search results, in our directory. Through our sponsored search services, we provide advertisers a cost-effective way to deliver advertisement to targeted customers by displaying advertisements in response to user actions, such as a keyword search. We offer both paid listing and bid listing on our search engine and online directory, as well as listings in our classified advertisement section. For paid listing, advertisers pay fixed lump-sum fees based on priority and keywords within a certain period. For bid listing, advertisers pay us according to a cost per click bidding price set by the advertisers. We market our paid search services through the use of approximately 550 distribution agents as well as our internal sales force. We also have a Website Alliance network with more than 5,600 members, whereby our bid listing advertisers could choose to also post their links in different Websites of the Website Alliance members so as to increase the chance of click-through. In 2006, we had more than 48,000 customers for our sponsored search business. Products and Services for Users We provide an array of products and services to our users through our Web properties, including aggregated content, communication and community, search and directory, wireless services and online games. Aggregated Content We also are a leading aggregator of content, and provide content on a variety of topics. We organize our content around 31 main channels on the Sohu portal. Each main channel contains numerous sub-channels and features news, commentaries and various utilities and solutions relating to a specific topic. We also have regional Websites in four different cities in China. As of December 31, 2006, we had over one thousand and five hundred content partners, which enables us to provide a wide range of content offerings. Our content partners are leading Chinese language media and information providers in a variety of fields with coverage of major cities in China. Our arrangements with content partners are normally short-term and non-exclusive. In addition, we have established exclusive partnership/sponsorships with some of our important content partners and sponsors, including the Beijing 2008 Olympic Games, NBA, Team China Football, Team China Basketball, the fifteenth Asian Games and the sixth Inner City Games of PRC. Such exclusive content partnerships or sponsorships enable us to differentiate our brand advertising offering from other brands and to improve and strengthen our brand. All of our channels, including co-branded third party content on our portal, are defined by the following features, that together constitute the distinct Sohu “look and feel”: the Sohu.com logo, the “Search Fox” mascot that displays different postures in different channels, the navigation bar, the color combination, the size and type of the Chinese characters, the spacing of the characters used in our directories and the reporting style. Below are descriptions of some of our main channels: News Delivers a comprehensive selection of local, national and international news from newspapers, magazines and other information providers throughout China. Full text search is also available on each page. Entertainment Contains extensive coverage of entertainment arenas that are of interest to Chinese users, including movies, television programs, plays, operas and popular and classical music. Sports Provides the latest in national and international sports headlines, results, commentaries and analyses as well as exclusive contents obtained from exclusive partners, such as NBA, Team China Football and Team China Basketball. Business and Finance Features business and financial news provided by leading financial information services in China covering both domestic and international markets. Users can retrieve real-time stock quotes, exchange rates, annual reports, research reports and other information on selected listed companies in China. 5 Table of Contents Automobile Includes industry forums, industry policies and trends, and online communications with the CEOs of the top Chinese automakers. Also provides automobile features, news, and product previews. Real Estate Together with Focus.cn, this channel offers directories of apartment, residential housing and commercial housing listings in nine major cities in China, and publishes advice and information on general real estate and home furnishing matters. Information Technology Includes industry forums, industry policies and trends, and online communications with the CEOs of the top Chinese companies in the information technology industry. Features information technology news, product reviews and software downloads. Women Covers a broad range of lifestyle-related topics that are of particular interest to Chinese women, including fashion and trends, beauty, society, emotion and other areas. Online Video – V.Sohu.com and S.Sohu.com In addition to providing traditional text and picture-based content, we have focused on developing new media technologies. We have launched two online TV-like channels, V.Sohu for entertainment and S.Sohu for sports, specifically geared for video content. In addition to watching pre-set programs with broadcasting schedules, users can also enjoy programs on an on-demand basis. Communication and Community Tools We offer a variety of communication and community tools for our Chinese online users that are important in promoting user affinity to our portal network: Alumni Club Alumni Club is a database service containing information on schools, classes and classmates that allows classmates to communicate and find each other. As of December 31, 2006, there were approximately seventy-seven million registered users. Blogs Blogs in an interactive platform for users to build their own space by posting their articles and pictures, and allow sharing of information amongst users. As a “customized portal”, we offer blog services to our users with “Fun and Personalization” features, such as, unique facility for personalized blog’s front page layout, interactive communication facilities for blog users and services integrated with a selection of Sohu products. E-Mail We offer e-mail services to our users with up to two-gigabyte free memory. Picture Gallery Offers users to post their favorite pictures and allows interaction with other users. Organizes the collected pictures in categories and offers searching function to users for locating different pictures. Message Boards Users can post and exchange information on message boards covering 16 main topics, ranging from education and travel to fashion, sports and all news web pages. Search and Directory Services In 1997, we started as China’s first online search company under the brand, Sohu, which means Search Fox in Chinese, and have continuously developed our in-house search technology. In 2004, we launched our search brand, Sogou, which means Search Dog in Chinese. Currently, we provide both keyword search services and search directory services to our users. 6 Table of Contents Under the keyword search, the end users type in the keyword in the search box on the Website, and a list of Website links related to the searched keyword will be shown as search results. The search directory is structured as a search engine by categories. The end users can choose the search type from the nine categories and are linked to the corresponding Websites to continue the search process. Over the years, our in-house directory of Websites has been continuously expanded. With a search database of more than ten billion retrieved web pages, we believe Sohu has one of the world’s largest Chinese language online search databases. We offer our users the following search services: Web Page Search Our Web Page Search is based on our latest search technology, with an expanded database capacity of more than ten billion retrieved web pages. Our web page search provides users a better experience by increasing updating speed and higher relevancy for search results. Music Search Music Search enables people to easily find music, songs, lyrics, ring tones and other multimedia files on the Internet. The users can also sort our Music Search links by various categories, such as lists of top pop songs and singers, which are updated automatically every week based on the number of clicks. News Search Our News Search gathers information from over 2,000 sources, provides links to local, national and international news which are updated every minute. Say Board Our Say Board provides users with a query-based searchable community to exchange views and share knowledge and experiences. Users can search, read and browse Internet message boards and post messages. Picture Search Picture Search enables users a convenient method to search for relevant pictures by keywords. Map Search With advanced technology, our Map Search helps users search for maps, get directions, and find locations quickly and easily within China. Wireless Services We operate as a service provider to China’s leading mobile network operators, offering a wide range of wireless products focused on entertainment, information and communications. These products are available to end users via a broad choice of technologies, such as SMS, WAP, MMS, RBT and IVR services. We provide wireless services mainly pursuant to our cooperation arrangements with all of the four Chinese mobile network operators and their provincial subsidiaries. We offer a variety of products and services to our users by utilizing the content of our portals to create fee-based services. Users can purchase our wireless services through our Websites or through mobile phones and pay for such services on a monthly subscription basis or per-message basis. Users may subscribe to receive news, alerts and other information, download ring tones and logos and alumni clubs, participate in dating and friends matching as well as play games, and order other mobile related content. Pursuant to our cooperation arrangement with mobile network operators, the monthly service fees charged on users range from $0.062 to $3.835 per month and single message fees range from $0.006 to $0.511 per message. For the year ended December 31, 2006, approximately 61% of our SMS revenues was derived from consumers who subscribe for monthly services. We do not directly bill and collect fees from users. Instead, we rely on mobile network operators to bill and collect our service fees. After collecting service fees from users on behalf of Sohu, mobile network operators will deduct a percentage of such revenue as gateway fees and service fees before paying the balance to us. Such percentages normally ranges from 15%-55% based on contract rates. Online Games In 2006, we operated two multiplayer online role playing games (MMORPG games), namely, Knight Online and Blade Online. The former was licensed from a Korean developer and launched in 2003. The latter was co-developed with a Beijing-based game studio and launched in 2004. In addition to MMORPG games, we also operate a casual game platform on our portal, mainly consisting of self-developed chess and board games. Our online games revenues have been included within our other non-advertising revenues and are a relatively small part of our business. In November 2006, we terminated the operation of Knight Online when the license contract expired. We will maintain servers for Knight Online until March 20, 2007. In December 2006, we announced the launch of Blade Hero Online, which is the upgraded version of Blade Online. Blade Hero Online was offered on a free-to-play basis and we sell virtual products in the game to generate income. 7 Table of Contents E-commerce We started the e-commerce portion of our business in 2000, selling products at store.sohu.com. We made direct sales to customers (the B2C model). Under the B2C model, we purchased products from suppliers, stocked the goods in our warehouse, and, upon receiving orders from customers through our Websites, arranged for delivery. In 2005, we implemented an additional business model - the n2N model. Under the n2N model, suppliers list their products on our Website and receive orders directly from customers through the Website. On June 20, 2006, we discontinued the e-commerce platform of physical consumer goods in order to focus on profitable segments. Competition The Internet and Internet-related markets in China are relatively new and rapidly evolving. There are many companies in the domestic and international markets that distribute online content, value-added telecommunications services targeting Chinese users. We now are facing more intense competition from both domestic and international competitors for providing content and services over the Internet, including brand advertising, content, community tools, search engines, web directories, wireless services and online games. For example, there are a number of existing or new PRC Internet portals, including those controlled or sponsored by private and PRC government entities. As an Internet portal, we compete with these portals, including but not limited to Sina, Tencent, Netease and Tom Online, and vertical sites, such as SouFun. Our search engine faces intense competition from software and other Internet products and services incorporating search and retrieval capabilities, such as Baidu, ZhongSou, Google and Yahoo! China. In addition, we compete with pure-play services providers, such as, KongZhong and Linktone; operators of global leading Websites or Internet service providers, including Yahoo!, Microsoft/MSN and AOL; and other online games operators including Shanda and The9, currently offer, and could expand, their online products and services targeting China. These sites compete with us for visitor traffic, advertising dollars, Internet services, wireless services and potential partners. In the PRC Internet market, competition is intense and is expected to increase significantly in the future because there are no substantial barriers to entry in our market. Our competitors may have certain competitive advantages over us in terms of: • substantially greater financial and technical resources; • more extensive and well developed marketing and sales networks; • better access to original content and information; • greater global brand recognition among consumers; and • larger customer bases. We compete with other portals in China primarily on the following basis: • technological advancements; • attractiveness of products; • brand recognition; • volume of traffic and users; • quality of our Websites and content; • strategic relationships; • quality of our services; • effectiveness of sales and marketing efforts; • talented staff; and • price. Our existing competitors may in the future achieve greater market acceptance and gain additional market share. It is also possible that new competitors may emerge and acquire significant market share. We believe the rapid increase in China’s online population will draw more attention from these multinational players to the PRC Internet market. We also compete with traditional forms of media — such as newspapers, magazines, radio and television — for advertisers, advertising revenues and content. Some of these traditional media have extended their businesses into the Internet market such as CCTV.com and XinHuaNet. Accordingly, we will face more intense competition with traditional media companies in both their traditional media, and in the Internet-related markets. 8 Table of Contents Government Regulation and Legal Uncertainties The following description of PRC laws and regulations is based upon the opinions of TransAsia Lawyers, our PRC counsel. For a description of legal risks relating to our ownership structure and business, see “Risk Factors”. Regulatory Authorities Certain areas related to the Internet, such as telecommunications, Internet information services, international connections to computer information networks, information security and censorship are covered extensively by a number of existing laws and regulations issued by various PRC governmental authorities, including: • the Ministry of Information Industry, or MII (formerly the Ministry of Post and Telecommunications, or MPT); • the Ministry of Culture, or MOC; • the Ministry of Public Security; • the State Administration of Industry and Commerce, or State AIC; • the General Administration for Press and Publication, or GAPP (formerly the State Press and Publications Administration, or SPPA); • the State Administration for Radio, Film and Television, or SARFT; and • the State Council Information Office, or SCIO. Telecommunications Laws and Regulations Among all of the applicable laws and regulations, the Telecommunications Regulations of the People’s Republic of China, or the Telecom Regulations, implemented on September 25, 2000, is the primary governing law, and sets out the general framework for the provision of telecommunication services by domestic PRC companies. Under the Telecom Regulations, it is a requirement that telecommunications service providers procure operating licenses prior to their commencement of operations. The Telecom Regulations draw a distinction between “basic telecommunications services” and “value-added telecommunications services”. Value-added telecommunications services are defined as telecommunications and information services provided through public networks. A “Catalogue of Telecommunications Business” was issued as an attachment to the Telecom Regulations to categorize telecommunications services as basic or value-added. In February 2003, the Catalogue was updated, and categorizing online data and transaction processing, on-demand voice and image communications, domestic Internet virtual private networks, Internet data centers, message storage and forwarding (including voice mailbox, e-mail and online fax services), call centers, Internet access, and online information and data search as value-added telecommunications services. Accordingly, there are various types of telecommunications services, in which Sohu is engaged that are regulated as value-added telecommunications services. Foreign direct investment in telecommunications companies in China is regulated by the Regulations for the Administration of Foreign-Invested Telecommunications Enterprises, or the FITE Regulations, which were issued by the PRC State Council on December 11, 2001, and became effective on January 1, 2002. The FITE Regulations stipulate that telecommunications enterprises in the PRC with foreign investors, or FITEs, must be established as Sino-foreign equity joint ventures. FITEs can undertake operations in basic telecommunications services and value-added telecommunications services. Under the FITE Regulations and in accordance with WTO-related agreements, the foreign party to an FITE engaging in value-added telecommunications services may hold up to 50% of the equity of the FITE, with no geographic restrictions on its operations. The PRC government has not made any further commitment to liberalize its regulation of FITEs. In view of the restrictions on foreign direct investment in the telecommunications sector, we established several domestic Variable Interest Entities, or VIEs, to engage in value-added telecommunications services. For a detailed discussion of our VIEs, please refer to below “Our PRC Corporate Structure”. In view of the FITE Regulations and Sino-Foreign Equity Joint Venture Law, we may consider establishing a foreign-invested telecom entity at an appropriate time. On December 26, 2001, the MII promulgated the Administrative Measures for Telecommunications Business Operating Licenses, or Telecom License Measures, to supplement the Telecom Regulations. The Telecom License Measures confirm that there are two types of telecom operating licenses for operators in China (including FITEs), namely, licenses for basic telecommunications services and licenses for value-added telecommunications services. With respect to the latter, a distinction is made as to whether a license is granted for intra-provincial or “trans-regional” (inter-provincial) activities. An appendix to the license will detail the permitted activities of the enterprise to which it was granted. An approved telecommunication services operator must conduct its business (whether basic or value-added) in accordance with the specifications recorded on its Telecommunications Services Operating License. On August 18, 2004 and May 30, 2005, the MII issued to Sohu Internet and Goodfeel, respectively, a Value-Added Telecommunications Services Operating License each of which authorized the provision of value-added telecommunication services 9 Table of Contents nationwide. Both of these licenses have a valid term of five years and are subject to annual inspections. In addition to the Value-Added Telecommunications Services Operating License, we require various other licenses and permits so as to provide Internet-related services in China. For a detailed discussion, please refer below to “Classified Regulations”. Our PRC Corporate Structure We have the following subsidiaries in China: • Beijing ITC, established in 1997 by Sohu Hong Kong; • Sohu Era, established in 2003 by Sohu Hong Kong; • Sohu Software, established in 2003 by Sohu Hong Kong; • Go2Map Software, acquired in 2005 as a result of the acquisition of Go2Map Inc; • Sogou Technology, established in 2006 by Sogou BVI; and • Sohu Media, established in 2006 by Sohu Hong Kong. Beijing ITC, Sohu Era, Sohu Software, Go2Map Software, Sogou Technology and Sohu Media are structured as wholly foreign-owned companies engaged in the development of Internet technologies and related software. Under current PRC law, the establishment of wholly foreign-owned companies must be approved by the relevant local branch of the MOC, and such companies may commence operations only upon the issuance of a business license by the relevant local branch of the State AIC, such as the Beijing AIC. Beijing ITC, Sohu Era, Sohu Software, Go2Map Software, Sogou Technology and Sohu Media have been issued business licenses by Beijing AIC, and Sohu Era, Sohu Software, Go2Map Software, Sogou Technology and Sohu Media have obtained a New Technology Enterprise Qualification Certificate issued by Beijing Science and Technology Commission. In the opinion of TransAsia Lawyers, Beijing ITC, Sohu Era, Sohu Software, Go2Map Software, Sogou Technology and Sohu Media have presently satisfied both of the aforementioned requirements. As mentioned above, the telecommunications value-added services business is an area in which foreign investment is restricted. Thus, we have established the following VIEs through contractual arrangements with our subsidiaries to perform certain value-added telecommunications services. • High Century, a PRC company established in 2001, and 80% owned by Dr. Zhang, our founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and 20% owned by one of our employees. High Century is structured as an investment management and consulting company in China; • Sohu Entertainment, formerly known as Beijing Hengda Yitong Internet Technology Development Co., Ltd, or Hengda, a PRC company established in 2002, that is owned by two of our employees. Hengda is structured to provide Internet-related services in China. The company’s name of Hengda was changed to Sohu Entertainment as of June 9, 2006; • Sohu Internet, a PRC company established in 2003, that is 75% owned by High Century and 25% owned by Sohu Entertainment. Sohu Internet is structured to provide Internet-related services in China; • Goodfeel, a PRC company we acquired in 2004. Goodfeel is owned by two of our employees and has entered into a series of agreements to provide wireless services in China; • Huohu, a PRC company established in 2005. Huohu is owned by Sohu Era and an employee of Sohu. Huohu is structured to engage in software and technology development for the gaming business; • Tu Xing Tian Xia, a PRC company we acquired in 2005. High Century and Sohu Internet own 56.1% and 43.9% interests in Tu Xing Tian Xia, respectively. Tu Xing Tian Xia is structured to provide online mapping service in China; • Feng Yang Tian Lang, a PRC company that we established in December 2005. High Century and Sohu Internet each hold 50% of the equity interests in Feng Yang Tian Lang, which is structured to engage in the online advertising business; • Sogou Information, a PRC company that we established in December 2005. Sogou Information is owned by two of our employees and is structured to provide Internet-related services in China; 10 Table of Contents • Guangzhou Interactive, a PRC company that we established in November 2006. Guangzhou Interactive is 50% owned by Sohu Internet and 50% owned by High Century. Guangzhou Interactive is structured to provide Internet-related and wireless services in Guangdong; and • 21 East Beijing, a PRC company engaging in entertainment business in China. We acquired 70% interests in 21 East Beijing through High Century in October 2006. The remaining 30% interests in 21 East Beijing were owned by third party individuals. Sohu has extended interest-free loans to the individual shareholders of the VIEs to fund their capital investment in the VIEs. We have also entered into a series of agreements with the individual shareholders to transfer their shares in the VIEs to us when required to do so. All of our VIEs presently have valid business licenses issued by the relevant local branch of the State AIC. In addition, Sohu Entertainment, Sohu Internet, Goodfeel, Huohu, Tu Xing Tian Xia and Sogou Information have been issued New Technology Enterprise Qualification Certificates by Beijing Science and Technology Commission. In February 2007, we completed the liquidation of one of our former VIEs, Beijing Sohu Online Network Information Services, Ltd. (or Beijing Sohu), a PRC company that was 80% owned by Dr. Zhang, our founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and 20% owned by High Century. In addition, Beijing ITC is in the process of liquidation. The MII promulgated on July 13, 2006 a Notice of the Ministry of Information Industry on Intensifying the Administration of Foreign Investment in Value-added Telecommunications Services. The notice is designed to strengthen the administration of foreign investment in PRC telecommunication businesses, particularly those involving value-added telecommunications services, which encompass a wide variety of activities related to the provision of service/content via telecommunications networks. As such, the notice requires the following: Telecom companies (or their shareholders) must hold the domain names and trademarks that they use in their provision of value-added telecommunication services, and must hold necessary business premises and facilities (including servers) within the region covered by their ICP licenses and correspond to the ICP services. In compliance with the Notice of the Ministry of Information Industry on Intensifying the Administration of Foreign Investment in Value-added Telecommunications Services, an enterprise holding an ICP permit must be the entity that possesses the key intellectual property rights, e.g., domain names and trademarks. In this connection, Sohu Era is in the process of transferring several of its domain names and trademarks to Sohu Internet, which will license the same to Sohu Era and Sohu Media. In the opinion of TransAsia Lawyers, the ownership structures of each of Beijing ITC, Sohu Era, Sohu Software, Go2Map Software, Sogou Technology, Sohu Media, High Century, Sohu Entertainment, Sohu Internet, Goodfeel, Huohu, Tu Xing Tian Xia, Feng Yang Tian Lang, Sogou Information, Guangzhou Interactive and 21East Beijing comply with all existing laws, rules and regulations of the PRC and each of the sixteen companies as described herein has the full legal right, power and authority, and has been duly approved to carry on and engage in the business as described in its business license. Classified Regulations Online Advertising Under the Administrative Regulations for Advertising Licenses and the Implementation Rules for the Administrative Regulations for Advertising, both of which were issued by the State AIC on November 30, 2004 and effective as of January 1, 2005, enterprises (except for broadcast stations, television stations, newspapers and magazines, non-corporate entities and other entities specified in laws or administrative regulations) are generally exempted from the previous requirement to obtain an advertising license. Exempted enterprises are only required to apply for the inclusion of advertising services in their business license. We established Feng Yang Tian Lang and Sohu Media in 2005 and 2006, respectively. Both companies had included the provision of advertising services in their business scope on their business licenses. Internet Information Services On September 25, 2000, the State Council approved the Measures for the Administration of Internet Information Services, or the ICP Measures. Under the ICP Measures, any entity that provides information to online users of the Internet is obliged to obtain an operating license from the MII or its local branch at the provincial or municipal level in accordance with the Telecom Regulations described above. The ICP Measures stipulate further that entities providing online information services regarding news, publishing, education, medicine, health, pharmaceuticals and medical equipment must procure the consent of the national authorities responsible for such areas prior to applying for an operating license from the MII or its local branch at the provincial or municipal level. Moreover, ICPs must display their operating license numbers in conspicuous locations on their home pages. ICPs are required to police their Websites and remove certain prohibited content. This obligation reiterates Internet content restrictions that have been promulgated by other PRC ministries. 11 Table of Contents Most importantly for foreign investors, the ICP Measures stipulate that ICPs must obtain the prior consent of the MII prior to establishing an equity or cooperative joint venture with a foreign partner. On July 28, 2003, the BTA issued to Sohu Internet a Telecommunications and Information Services Operating License (or ICP license). On June 10, 2004, Goodfeel obtained an ICP license issued by BTA. On April 21, 2005, Tu Xing Tian Xia was issued an ICP license by BTA. On December 3, 2005, the BTA issued to Sogou Information an ICP license. All of these ICP licenses have a term of five years and are subject to annual inspections. Online News Dissemination On September 25, 2005, the Administrative Regulations for Internet News Information Services (or News Regulations) were jointly promulgated by the State Council Information Office and MII to replace the previous Provisional Rules for the Administration of the Operation of News Publication Services by Web Sites (or Old News Rules) issued on November 7, 2000. The News Regulations stipulate that general Websites established by non-news organizations, such as Sohu, may publish news released by certain official news agencies if such Websites satisfy the requirements set forth in Article 8 of the regulations but may not publish news items produced by themselves or other news sources. The aforementioned requirements include the following: • they must comply with the constitution, laws and regulations of the PRC, uphold and not mislead the society’s public opinion, and safeguard national and public interests; • they must have sound administrative rules and regulations concerning Internet news services; • they must have the necessary premises, equipment and legally-raised funds; • they must have ten or more professional news editors, at least five of whom have worked at a news agency for a minimum of three years; • they must be legal persons who have been legally established for at least two years, engaged in the operation of Internet news services and have not had administrative penalties imposed due to violation of laws and regulations on the administration of Internet news services within the last two years; • if the applicant is an enterprise legal person, its registered capital must not be less than RMB 10,000,000; and • they must only republish or disseminate news published by State news agencies or news agencies directly subordinate to the respective governments of the provinces, autonomous regions or directly-administered municipalities without distorting the original news information regarding current events and political affairs to the public, and indicate the source of such news information; and shall not publish news gathered and edited by themselves. The aforementioned rules also require the general Websites of non-news organizations to apply to the SCIO at the national level for approval after securing the consent of the SCIO at the provincial level before they commence providing news dissemination services. Also, general Websites intending to publish news released by the aforementioned news agencies or bureaus must enter into agreements with them and submit copies of those agreements to the relevant administration department. On May 11, 2004, Sohu Internet obtained the permit to engage in online news dissemination services, which was issued by the Information Office of the Beijing Municipal Government (the local arm of the SCIO) under the Old News Rules. On June 6, 2006, such permit was updated by the SCIO in accordance with the News Regulations. Internet Medical, Health and Pharmaceuticals Information Services The Measures for the Administration of Internet Medical and Health Information Services were issued by the Ministry of Health, or MOH, on January 8, 2001. Under these measures, the MOH is responsible for reviewing the qualifications of Websites and approving their publication of health-related information. Additionally, in accordance with the Provisional Rules for the Administration of Internet Pharmaceuticals Information Services, issued by the State Food and Drug Administration, or SFDA, on July 8, 2004, the formal approval of the SFDA or one of its local branches is required before a Website may disseminate information concerning pharmaceuticals. According to the aforementioned regulations, medical, health and pharmaceutical information provided by Websites must be scientific and accurate and must indicate the sources of such information. Websites that are approved to disseminate such information must also publish or reprint health policies, information on epidemics and major health-related incidents, and other health-related information in accordance with law. Furthermore, medical and pharmaceutical advertisements published by such Websites must not exaggerate the efficacy or promote the medical uses of such products. 12 Table of Contents Sohu Internet obtained the aforementioned approvals from and completed registration with the MOH on November 17, 2005. On October 25, 2004, Sohu Internet received from the SFDA approval to disseminate information concerning pharmaceuticals. Online Audiovisual Transmission On July 6, 2004, the SARFT issued the Measures for the Administration of the Transmission of Audiovisual Programs over Information Networks such as the Internet, which came into effect on October 11, 2004. These measures provide that Websites authorized to disseminate news may apply to the SARFT to obtain a Permit for the Network Transmission of Audiovisual Programs allowing the online dissemination of streaming video. In accordance with these measures, we have applied to the SARFT for this permit in 2005. We also understand that the SARFT is adjusting its regulatory system in this area and may promulgate new legislation in 2007. Internet Publishing The Rules for the Administration of the Publications Market, issued by the GAPP on July 16, 2003, define the online distribution of publications as the offering of online subscriptions for, and the purchase, storage, shipment, and sale of, publications over the Internet. On June 27, 2002, the GAPP and MII jointly issued the Provisional Rules for the Administration of Internet Publishing, or Internet Publishing Rules, which define “Internet publications” as works that are either selected or edited to be published on the Internet or transmitted to end-users through the Internet for the purposes of browsing, reading, using or downloading by the general public. Such works primarily include content or articles formally published publicly in other press such as: (a) books, newspapers, periodicals, audio-visual products and electronic publications and (b) literature, art and articles on natural science, social science, engineering and other topics that have been edited. Under the Internet Publishing Rules, Web portals such as ours are required to apply to and register with the GAPP before distributing Internet publications. In this regard, Sohu Internet obtained approval from the Beijing News and Publications Bureau (the local arm of the GAPP) on January 26, 2004, to distribute Internet publications. Online Games and Cultural Products On December 30, 1997, the SPPA (renamed as the GAPP) issued the Rules for the Administration of Electronic Publications, or Electronic Publication Rules, which took effect as of January 1, 1998. The Electronic Publication Rules outline a licensing system for business operations involving electronic publications, which are currently interpreted by the GAPP to include online games. Under the Electronic Publication Rules, if a PRC company is contractually authorized to publish foreign electronic publications, it must obtain the approval of, and register the copyright license contract with GAPP. On July 27, 2004, the GAPP issued a Notice for the Implementation of the State Council Decision for Centralization of the Approval Power of the Electronic, which required that foreign games be imported through the holder of Permit for Internet Publishing. At the end of 2006, the GAPP further required the holder of the Permit for the Internet Publishing to submit a monthly report stating that any foreign online game which it publishes has not had significant changes in content since the approval. On May 10, 2003, the MOC issued the Provisional Regulations for the Administration of Online Culture, which took effect on July 1, 2003. This regulation applies to entities engaging in activities related to “online cultural products”, including music and video files, network games, animation features and audiovisual products, performed plays and artwork converted for dissemination via the Internet. Pursuant to this legislation, commercial entities are required to apply to the relevant local branch of the MOC for an Online Culture Operating Permit if they engage in any of the following types of activities: • the production, duplication, importation, wholesale, retail, leasing or broadcasting of online cultural products; • the dissemination of online cultural products on the Internet or transmission thereof to computers, fixed-line or mobile phones, radios, television sets or gaming consoles for the purpose of browsing, reading, using or downloading such products; or • the exhibition or holding of contests related to online cultural products. On May 14, 2004, the MOC issued the Notice Regarding the Strengthening of Network Game Censorship. This notice mandates the establishment of a new committee under the MOC that will screen imported online games for politically sensitive content. The committee will censor games that “threaten state security”, “disturb the social order”, “distort historical facts” or infringe on third party intellectual property rights. On July 12, 2005, the MOC and the MII promulgated the Opinions on the Development and Administration of Online Gaming, reflecting the Chinese government’s intent to foster and control the development of the online gaming industry in China. 13 Table of Contents On September 5, 2003, the MOC issued an Online Culture Operating Permit to Sohu Internet, authorizing us to provide online game services. This permit is subject to annual inspection. Online Audiovisual Products Distribution On November 25, 2006, the newly amended Measures for the Administration of the Wholesale Retail and Rental of Audiovisual Products were promulgated by the Ministry of Culture as Decree No.40 and were effective as of December 1, 2006; the original Measures for the Administration of the Wholesale, Retail and Rental of Audiovisual Products were repealed. The new measures substantially amend the old measures by lowering the requirements related to market access, business premises size and number of full-time staff, by canceling restrictions on the registered capital of entities distributing audiovisual products, and by encouraging diversity in business models. On August 10, 2004, the Beijing Cultural Bureau (the local arm of the MOC) issued to Sohu Internet an Audiovisual Products Operating Permit authorizing the online distribution of audiovisual products. In addition, the 2003-2010 Development Plan for the Cultural Market, issued on February 20, 2003 by the MOC, outlines the MOC’s plans to initiate an electronic administration system for the distribution of audiovisual products online. Although no specific legislation has been issued in this regard, we are aware that further administrative approvals may be required in the future in connection with our online audiovisual product business activities. International Connections for Computer Information Networks The State Council and the MII have promulgated regulations governing international connections for PRC computer networks, including: • Measures for the Administration of International Connections to China’s Public Computer Interconnected Networks (1996); • Provisional Regulations of the People’s Republic of China for the Administration of International Connections to Computer Information Networks (1997) and their Implementing Measures (1998); • Reply Concerning the Verification and Issuance of Operating Permits for Business Relating to International Connections for Computer Information Networks and for Public Multimedia Telecommunications Business (1998); and • Administrative Measures for International Communications Gateways (2002). Under the above regulations, any entity wishing to access international connections for their computer information networks in the PRC must comply with the following requirements: • be a PRC legal person; • have the appropriate equipment, facilities and technical and administrative personnel; • have implemented and registered a system of information security and censorship; and • effect all international connections through an international communications gateway established with the approval of the MII. We adopted the relevant measures to ensure that we are in proper compliance with all of these requirements. Information Security and Censorship The principal pieces of PRC legislation concerning information security and censorship are: • The Law of the People’s Republic of China on the Preservation of State Secrets (1988) and its Implementing Rules (1990); • The Law of the People’s Republic of China Regarding State Security (1993) and its Implementing Rules (1994); • Rules of the People’s Republic of China for Protecting the Security of Computer Information Systems (1994); 14 Table of Contents • Notice Concerning Work Relating to the Filing of Computer Information Systems with International Connections (1996); • Administrative Regulations for the Protection of Secrecy on Computer Information Systems Connected to International Networks (1999); • Regulations for the Protection of State Secrets for Computer Information Systems on the Internet (2000); • Notice issued by the Ministry of Public Security of the People’s Republic of China Regarding Issues Relating to the Implementation of the Administrative Measure for the Security Protection of International Connections to Computer Information Networks (2000); • The Decision of the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress Regarding the Safeguarding of Internet Security (2000); and • Measures for the Administration of Commercial Website Filings for the Record (2002) and their Implementing Rules (2002). These pieces of legislation specifically prohibit the use of Internet infrastructure where it results in a breach of public security, the provision of socially destabilizing content or the divulgence of State secrets, as follows: • “A breach of public security” includes breach of national security or disclosure of state secrets; infringement on state, social or collective interests or the legal rights and interests of citizens or illegal or criminal activities. • “Socially destabilizing content” includes any action that incites defiance or violation of Chinese laws; incites subversion of state power and the overturning of the socialist system; fabricates or distorts the truth, spreads rumors or disrupts social order; advocates cult activities; or spreads feudal superstition, involves obscenities, pornography, gambling, violence, murder, or horrific acts or instigates criminal acts. • “State secrets” are defined as “matters that affect the security and interest of the state”. The term covers such broad areas as national defense, diplomatic affairs, policy decisions on state affairs, national economic and social development, political parties and “other State secrets that the State Secrecy Bureau has determined should be safeguarded.” According to the aforementioned legislation, it is mandatory for Internet companies in the PRC to complete security filing procedures with the local public security bureau and for them to update regularly with the local public security bureau regarding information security and censorship systems for their Websites. In this regard, the Detailed Implementing Rules for the Measures for the Administration of Commercial Website Filings for the Record, promulgated in September 1, 2000 by the Beijing AIC, state that Websites must comply with the following requirements: • they must file with the Beijing AIC and obtain electronic registration marks; • they must place the registration marks on their Websites’ homepages; and • they must register their Website names with the Beijing AIC. Sohu Internet successfully registered its Website with the Beijing AIC on September 11, 2003. Accordingly, the electronic registration mark is prominently placed on its homepage. In addition, the State Security Bureau has issued regulations authorizing the blocking of access to any site it deems to be leaking State secrets or failing to meet the relevant legal legislation regarding the protection of State secrets in the distribution of information online. Specifically, Internet companies in China with message boards, chat rooms or similar services, such as Sohu, must apply for the approval of the State Secrets Bureau prior to operating such services. Accordingly, we have established an internal security committee and adopted security maintenance measures, employed a full-time supervisor and exchanged information on a regular basis with the local public security bureau with regard to sensitive or censored information and Websites. 15 Table of Contents Encryption Software In October 1999, the State Encryption Administration Commission promulgated the Regulations for the Administration of Commercial Encryption, followed in November 1999 by the Notice of the General Office of the State Encryption Administration Commission. Both of these regulations address the use in China of software with encryption functions. According to these regulations, encryption products purchased for use must be reported. Violation of the encryption regulations may result in the issuance of a warning, levying of a penalty, confiscation of the encryption products and even criminal liabilities. On March 18, 2000, the Office of the State Commission for the Administration of Cryptography issued a public announcement regarding the implementation of those regulations. The announcement clarifies that: • Only specialized hardware and software, the core functions of which are encryption and decoding, fall within the administrative scope of the regulations as “encryption products and equipment containing encryption technology”. Other products such as wireless telephone, Windows software and browsers do not fall within this scope. • The State Commission for the Administration of Cryptography changed its name to the State Cryptography Administration Bureau (SCAB) in March 2005. The SCAB maintains authority over the importation, research, production, sale and use of cryptographic products in China (“products” are defined to include any cryptographic technologies and products to be applied in the encryption or secure authentication of information other than state secrets). Legislation was issued to restrict the importation, research, production and sale of encryption products and requiring that the encryption functions of such products be placed in escrow with the SCAB for reasons of national security. We are in full compliance with current PRC legislation governing encryption software. Wireless Services Sohu Internet and Goodfeel’s business activities include the provision of online services related to wireless services, including SMS, WAP, MMS, RBT and IVR. On April 25, 2004, the MII issued a notice stating that mobile network operators can only provide mobile network access to those mobile Internet service providers which have obtained licenses from the relevant local arm of the MII before conducting operations, and that such carriers must terminate mobile network access for those providers who have not secured the required licenses within a thirty-day grace period. On the basis of the notice, China Mobile Communication Corporation, or CMCC, has required each of its mobile Internet service providers to first obtain a license for trans-regional value-added telecommunications services in order to gain full access to its mobile network, which is a nationwide policy in line with a similar notice issued by the Beijing branch of CMCC on April 12, 2004. Sohu Internet and Goodfeel were granted the license to provide trans-regional value-added telecommunication services on August 18, 2004 and March 30, 2005, respectively. Consumer Protection and E-mail Services The MII has set forth various requirements for consumer protection in a notice issued on April 15, 2004, which addresses certain problems in the telecommunications sector, including ambiguity in billing practices for premium services, poor quality of connections and unsolicited SMS messages, all of which infringe upon the rights of consumers. This trend was continued with the issuance of the Notice Regarding the Ratification and Administration of Mobile Information Services Fees and Charges Method by MII on May 23, 2006. In addition, there has been a movement in China toward industry self-regulation to combat the problem of unsolicited e-mails. Specifically, on March 25, 2003, the China Internet Association issued the Anti-Spam E-Mail Guidelines. These guidelines set forth a number of mechanisms that Internet service providers in China may adopt to cut down the use of their systems to send unsolicited e-mail. We have adopted these guidelines in our operations. On February 20, 2006, the MII promulgated the Measures for the Administration of Internet E-mails Services, effective as of March 30, 2006. Under these new regulations, the “Opt-in” System is expected to be introduced into the area of e-mail services, whereby e-mails containing commercial advertisements are not delivered unless specifically requested by users. Furthermore, the subject line of all e-mails containing commercial advertisements will be required to have the label of “advertisement” or “AD”. In addition, the IP address of each server that supports e-mail will be registered in order to facilitate the tracing and identification of spam sources. We have adjusted our e-mail systems and forms to fulfill the relevant requirements. We are aware of the increasingly strict legal environment covering consumer protection in China, and we attempt to adopt all necessary measures to ensure that our business complies with these evolving standards. 16 Table of Contents Conclusion In the opinion of TransAsia Lawyers, our companies are approved to engage in the specific online services (categorized and addressed in the above sections) as described in the respective scopes indicated in the corresponding licenses and/or permits issued to the respective companies. Intellectual Property and Proprietary Rights We regard our copyrights, service marks, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property as critical to our success. We rely on trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection, non-competition and confidentiality and/or license agreements with our employees, customers, partners and others to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for third parties to obtain and use our intellectual property without authorization. Furthermore, the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in Internet-related industries are uncertain and still evolving. The laws of the PRC and certain other countries do not protect intellectual property to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. We have registered three service marks with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. They are (i) Sohu.com, registered on August 1, 2000; (ii) Sohu.com (stylized), registered on August 1, 2000; and (iii) Sohu, registered on June 13, 2000. We received the registration certificate for the mark “Sohu.com” issued by the China Trademark Office in October 2000. We have also filed registration applications with the China Trademark Office to register other key marks, including the Sohu Fox logo, 17173.com, Focus.cn, Goodfeel, Sogou, Go2Map and their corresponding Chinese version marks. We received registration certificate for the marks “Focus.cn” and “Go2Map”, respectively, in November 2004 and November 2000, and transfer certificates for the marks “17173” and “GoodFeel”, respectively, in February 2005 and June 2006, while the others are still under examination by the China Trademark Office. Our rights to these marks could be affected adversely if any of our applications are rejected. In addition, it is possible that our competitors will adopt product or service names similar to ours, thereby impeding our ability to distinguish our brand and possibly leading to customer confusion. Many parties are actively developing chat, homepage, search and related Web technologies. We expect these parties to continue to take steps to protect these technologies, including seeking patent protection. There may be patents issued or pending that are held by others and cover significant parts of our technology, business methods or services. For example, we are aware that a number of patents have been issued in the areas of e-commerce, Web-based information indexing and retrieval and online direct marketing. Disputes over rights to these technologies may arise in the future. We cannot be certain that our products do not or will not infringe valid patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. We may be subject to legal proceedings and claims, from time to time, relating to the intellectual property of others in the ordinary course of our business. We also intend to continue licensing technology from third parties. The market is evolving and we may need to license additional technologies to remain competitive. We may not be able to license these technologies on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In addition, we may fail to successfully integrate any licensed technology into our services. Our inability to obtain any of these licenses could delay product and service development until alternative technologies can be identified, licensed and integrated. Technology Infrastructure Currently, we have established two main service provision centers in Beijing through China Netcom Communication Corporation, or CNC, to maintain most of our servers. In addition, we have established a branch node in the Sichuan Province through China Telecom Sichuan Publish Information Industry Co., Ltd., a branch node in Shanghai through Shanghai Telecom, and a branch node at the Tsinghua University through China Education and Research Network, or CERNET, in order to cover different areas and provide better services to users in China. CNC, China Telecom Corporation, or China Telecom, and CERNET are three largest Internet connection service providers in China and their nodes in Beijing are the central hubs of the ChinaNet backbone. We have developed a close working relationship with CNC and its Beijing Subsidiary, China Telecom and CERNET. Our operations depend on the ability of CNC’s Beijing Subsidiary, China Telecom and CERNET to protect their systems against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, break-ins and other events. CNC’s Beijing Subsidiary, China Telecom and CERNET provide us with support services twenty-four hours per day, seven days per week. CNC’s Beijing Subsidiary, China Telecom and CERNET also provide connectivity for our servers through multiple high-speed connections. All facilities are protected by multiple power supplies. For reliability, availability, and serviceability, we have created an environment in which each server can function separately. Key components of our server architecture are served by multiple redundant machines. We also use in-house and third-party monitoring software. Our reporting and tracking systems generate daily traffic, demographic and advertising reports. We deploy load balance equipment to avoid single point failure. Our portal must accommodate a high volume of traffic and deliver frequently updated information. Components or features of our portal have in the past suffered outages or experienced slower response times because of equipment or software down time. These events have not had a material adverse effect on our business to date, but such events could have a material adverse effect in the future. 17 Table of Contents Employees As of December 31, 2006, we had 1,971 full-time and part-time employees. We also employ independent contractors to support our research and development, marketing, sales and editorial departments. None of our personnel are represented under collective bargaining agreements. Our senior management, key executives and most full-time employees have entered into confidentiality, non-competition and non-solicitation agreements with us. In addition, most of our employees have employment agreements with Sohu Era, Sohu Software, Sohu Internet and Go2Map Software, our PRC operating entities, which contain similar confidentiality and non-competition undertakings. However, the degree of protection afforded to an employer pursuant to confidentiality and non-competition undertakings governed by PRC law may be more limited when compared to the degree of protection afforded under the laws of other jurisdictions. A significant number of our employees hold share-based awards in Sohu, which provides additional financial incentives to them. These options generally vest over a period of one to four years. Available Information Our corporate Website is located at http://corp.sohu.com. We make available free of charge on or through our corporate Website our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. You will find links to copies of these reports, and to copies of Section 16 filings related to Sohu, by clicking on “Investor Relations” on the first full English page. Information contained on our corporate Website is not part of this report or any other report filed with the SEC. ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business We are a relatively young company subject to the risks associated with operating in a new and evolving market. As a relatively young company in the new and rapidly evolving PRC Internet market, we face numerous risks and uncertainties. Some of these risks relate to our ability to: • continue to attract a larger audience to our matrices of Web properties and proprietary search engines by expanding the type and technical sophistication of the content and services we offer; • maintain our current, and develop new, strategic relationships to increase our revenue streams as well as product and service offerings; • increase the revenues derived from our fee-based services and products we offer online; • build our sponsored search, wireless, and online games businesses successfully; and • attract and retain qualified personnel. Our operating results are likely to fluctuate significantly and may differ from market expectations. Our annual and quarterly operating results have varied significantly in the past, and may vary significantly in the future, due to a number of factors which could have an adverse impact on our business, such as our reliance on advertisers in certain industries for brand advertising revenues, our reliance on certain key third party distributors for sponsored search revenues and our reliance on mobile network operators for our wireless revenues. The Chinese Internet industry is at an early stage of development. We are unsure if it will continue to grow, and if it does, the rate at which it will grow. In addition, we are subject to government regulations that may change at any time with or without notice. Fluctuations in the industries of our key advertisers may affect our brand advertising revenues materially, because they may cut their spending on online marketing if there is any downturn in their industries. We rely on certain third party distributors to sell our sponsored search products. If we lose any of our key distributors, our business may be materially affected. We rely on mobile network operators for, among other things, billing of and collection of wireless service fees from mobile phone users. If our arrangements with the operators were to be terminated, altered or not renewed, or if the operators did not provide continuous or adequate service, our wireless revenues could be reduced significantly. As a result, we believe that year-to-year and quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. In addition, we have experienced very high growth rates in certain business lines in the past, and there may be expectations that these growth rates will continue. In the past, our operating results have sometimes fallen below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, and they may do so again in the future. In this event, the trading price of our common stock may fall. 18 Table of Contents We face intense competition which could reduce our market share and adversely affect our financial performance. There are many companies that distribute online content and services targeting Chinese users. We compete with distributors of content and services over the Internet, including Web directories, search engines, content sites, Internet service providers and sites maintained by government and educational institutions. These sites compete with us for visitor traffic, advertising dollars, wireless services, online game users and potential partners. The Internet market in China is relatively new and rapidly evolving. Competition is intense and expected to increase significantly in the future, because there are no substantial barriers to entry in our market. We have many competitors in the PRC Internet market, including Sina, Netease, Tencent, Baidu, Tom Online, KongZhong, Linktone, Shanda, The9, Google and Yahoo! China. In addition, there are a number of existing or new PRC Internet portals, including those controlled or sponsored by PRC government entities. These private and government sponsored competitors may have certain competitive advantages over us in terms of: • substantially greater financial and technical resources; • more extensive and well developed marketing and sales networks; • better access to original content and information; • greater global brand recognition among consumers; and • larger customer bases. We compete with other portals in China primarily on the following bases: • attractiveness of products; • brand recognition; • volume of traffic and users; • quality of our Websites and content; • strategic relationships; • quality of our services; • effectiveness of sales and marketing efforts; • talented staff; and • price. Our existing competitors may in the future achieve greater market acceptance and gain a greater market share. It is also possible that new competitors may emerge and acquire significant market share. In particular, our search engine faces intense competition from software and other Internet products and services incorporating search and retrieval capabilities, such as Baidu, Google and Yahoo! China. In addition, operators of leading Websites or Internet service providers, including Yahoo!, Microsoft/MSN and America Online, currently offer, and could expand, their online products and services targeting China. Such entities may cooperate with other organizations, such as telecommunication operators, in China to accelerate their entry into, and to enhance their competitiveness in, the Chinese market. For example, on September 19, 2006, China Telecom Corporation (or China Telecom) and Microsoft announced an agreement pursuant to which Microsoft will provide Windows Live search service to 25 million users of China Telecom. We believe the rapid increase in China’s online population will draw more attention from these multinational players to the PRC Internet market. We also compete with traditional forms of media, such as newspapers, magazines, radio and television, for advertisers and advertising revenues. If we fail to successfully develop and introduce new products and services, our competitive position and ability to generate revenues could be harmed. We are continuously developing new products and services for our users. The planned timing or introduction of new products and services is subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual timing may differ materially from original plans. Unexpected technical, operational, distribution or other problems could delay or prevent the introduction of one or more of our new products or services. Moreover, we cannot be sure that any of our new products and services will achieve widespread market acceptance or generate incremental revenue. 19 Table of Contents Our business depends on a strong brand, thus we will not be able to attract users, customers and clients of our products and offerings if we do not maintain and develop our brands. It is critical for us to maintain and develop our brands so as to effectively expand our user base and our revenues. We believe that the importance of brand recognition will increase as the number of Internet users in China grows. In order to attract and retain Internet users, advertisers, wireless, and online games customers, we may need to substantially increase our expenditures for creating and maintaining brand loyalty. Accordingly, our revenues will need to increase at least proportionately in order for us to maintain our current levels of profitability. Our success in promoting and enhancing our brands, as well as our ability to remain competitive, will also depend on our success in offering high quality content, features and functionality. If we fail to promote our brands successfully or if visitors to our Websites or advertisers do not perceive our content and services to be of high quality, we may not be able to continue growing our business and attracting visitors, advertisers, wireless, and online game customers. Our failure to keep up with rapid technology changes may severely affect our future success. The Internet industry is undergoing rapid technological changes. Our future success will depend on our ability to respond to rapidly evolving technologies, adapt our services to changing industry standards and improve the performance and reliability of our services. If we fail to adapt to such changes, our business may be adversely affected. For example, with the evolution of Web 2.0, Internet users may shift to new modes of information sharing, such as blogs. Moreover, we have used peer-to-peer streaming technology on video content to promote our online video. Our competitors may develop their own peer-to-peer streaming technology or update their existing technology to surpass us. With the development of search engine technologies, Internet users may choose to access information, news and content through search engines rather than portals. In addition, with the development of 2.5G and even 3G technology, the focus of wireless applications has been transferred from text message services to multi-media message services, wireless games, wireless downloads and other applications. Accordingly, we will need to adapt our business to cope with the changes and support these new services to be successful. In addition, the online games industry is evolving rapidly, so we need to anticipate new technologies and games and evaluate their possible market acceptance. We may be unable to recover our game development costs if our new online games are less attractive to users. In addition, the MII is cooperating with other administrations, including the Ministry of Public Security, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Justice, to draft industry standards or regulations regarding Spyware software. If we cannot adapt to new industry standards, more technical expenses could be required in the future. We depend on online advertising for a significant portion of our revenues, but the online advertisement market includes many uncertainties, which could cause our advertising revenues to decline. We derive a significant portion of our revenues, and expect to derive a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future, from the sale of advertising on our Websites. Advertising revenues represented approximately 68% of our total revenues for both the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. For the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, our five largest advertisers accounted for approximately 14% and 17% of our total brand advertising revenues, respectively. The growth of our advertising revenues relies on increased revenue from the sale of advertising spaces on our Websites, which may be affected by many of the following risk factors: • The online advertising market is new and rapidly evolving, particularly in China. As a result, many of our current and potential advertising clients have limited experience using the Internet for advertising purposes and historically have not devoted a significant portion of their advertising budget to Internet-based advertising. • Changes in government policy could restrict or curtail our online advertising services. For example, since July 2006, the PRC government has enacted a series of regulations, administrative instructions and policies to restrict online medical advertising. As a result of these regulations, we may lose some of our existing medical advertising clients. • Advertising clients that have invested substantial resources in other methods of conducting business may be reluctant to adopt a new strategy that may limit or compete with their existing efforts. • The acceptance of the Internet as a medium for advertising depends on the development of a measurement standard. No standards have been widely accepted for the measurement of the effectiveness of online advertising. Industry-wide standards may not develop sufficiently to support the Internet as an effective advertising medium. If these standards do not develop, advertisers may choose not to advertise on the Internet in general or through our portals or search engines. In addition, our ability to generate and maintain significant online advertising revenues will also depend upon: • the development of a large base of users possessing demographic characteristics attractive to advertising clients; • the acceptance of online advertisement as an effective way for business marketing by advertising clients; • the effectiveness of our advertising delivery, tracking and reporting systems; and 20 Table of Contents • the resistance pressure on online advertising prices and limitations on inventory. The expansion of Internet advertisement blocking software may result in a decrease of advertising revenues. The development of Web software that blocks Internet advertisements before they appear on a user’s screen may hinder the growth of online advertising. The expansion of advertisement blocking on the Internet may decrease our revenues because when an advertisement is blocked, it is not downloaded from our advertisement server. As a result, such advertisements will not be tracked as a delivered advertisement. In addition, advertisers may choose not to advertise on the Internet or on our Websites because of the use by third parties of Internet advertisement blocking software. Our failure to retain key distributors or attract additional distributors for our sponsored search customers could have an adverse impact on our business. Sponsored search is at an early stage of development in China and is not as widely accepted by or available to businesses in China as in the United States. As a result, we rely heavily on our nationwide distribution network of third-party distributors for our sales to, and collection of payment from, our sponsored search customers. If our distributors do not provide quality services to our customers or otherwise breach their contracts with them, we may lose customers. We do not have long-term agreements with any of our distributors, including our key distributors, and cannot assure that we will continue to maintain favorable relationships with them. We rely on our Website Alliance members for a significant portion of our sponsored search revenues. If we fail to retain existing Website Alliance members or attract additional members, our revenues and growth may be adversely affected. By posting bid listing links on their Websites, we share the revenues generated from clicks by users with our Website Alliance members. For the year ended December 31, 2006, the total revenues generated from Website Alliance accounted for approximately 75% of our total bid listing revenues. We consider our Website Alliance critical to the future growth of our sponsored search revenues. If our Website Alliance members decide to use a competitor’s or their own Internet search services, or if we fail to attract additional Websites to join our Website Alliance, our sponsored search revenues may decline. We rely on wireless services for a significant portion of our revenues. Wireless revenues have decreased in prior periods and may decrease further in the future. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from wireless services. We have derived our wireless revenues in prior periods from providing SMS, WAP, MMS, RBT and IVR, mainly consisting of news, weather forecast, chatting, entertainment information, music, ring tone, picture and logo downloads and various other mobile related products to mobile phone users and Personal Handy-phone System (or PHS) users. For the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, wireless revenues represented approximately 24% and 25%, respectively, of our total revenues. Wireless revenues decreased in certain prior periods. Wireless revenues may decrease in the future due to the possibilities that: • Our consumers may not understand our services or the fees they are being charged, may not be satisfied with our services and/or may not use our services on a regular basis; • Consumers may cancel their services at any time without notice; • Revenues from new wireless services such as WAP, MMS, RBT and IVR may not continue to grow significantly and become a significant portion of our total wireless revenues; • Competitors, including mobile network operators, may launch competing or better products than ours at any time; • There are limited barriers to entry to the wireless services sector; • Changes in the billing practices or operational rules and procedures of any of the four mobile network operators on whom we rely for service delivery and fee collection — namely, CMCC, Unicom Corporation Limited (or Unicom), CNC and China Telecom — could have a material impact on our wireless revenues. For instance, in July 2006, two major mobile network operators, CMCC and Unicom, introduced new policies on wireless value-added service, including extension of the trial period, double reminders for new monthly subscriptions, billing reminders to existing monthly subscribers and conversion of per message-based SMS subscriptions. In October 2006, the MII issued a guideline to regulate wireless value-added services, which reiterated policies carried on by major mobile network operators, including double confirmation, billing reminders, etc. On January 1, 2007, a notice of the MII , which focuses on the protection of mobile phone users’ right to select services and the strengthening of regulation on billing procedure, came into effect. We believe that our wireless revenues would be negatively affected by the implementation of these policies in the near term; • Changes in government policy could restrict or curtail the services which we provide. The MII has proposed requiring all handset users (including pre-paid mobile phone users) to register using their real names. If this requirement is implemented, it may cause the decrease of new customers, and in turn, reducing our wireless revenues; 21 Table of Contents • Mobile network operators may impose penalties on wireless service providers, or SPs, for violating certain operating policies relating to the provision of wireless services. We have received several penalty notices from mobile network operators, claiming a breach of cooperation contracts and imposing both service suspension sanctions for a period of not more than a year and/or monetary penalties. There is no guarantee that we will not be subject to similar, or more severe, penalties from mobile network operators in the future, which could significantly impair our wireless business; • We may enter into cooperation agreements with mobile network operators on terms that are not favorable to us since we have limited bargaining power to negotiate contract terms. In addition, mobile network operators may unilaterally revise their agreement at any time. As a result of such contract terms, we could easily be found in breach of our agreement with an operator and may be subject to penalties; and • Mobile network operators may not enter new agreements or renew existing agreements with SPs with respect to wireless services. However, those mobile network operators will continue work with us to provide services and monthly statements. New or renewed agreements with mobile network operators could change in a way that would be unfavorable to us, or such agreements may not be entered into at all. We rely on contracts with the mobile network operators in a number of ways with respect to our wireless services, including the billing of, and collection from, mobile phone users of wireless service fees. If our arrangements with mobile network operators were to be terminated, altered or not renewed, or if such operators did not provide continuous or adequate service, our revenues could be reduced. Our wireless services depend mainly on the cooperation of mobile network operators such as CMCC, Unicom, CNC, China Telecom and their respective subsidiaries. We rely on mobile network operators in the following ways: • we use mobile network operators’ networks and gateways to provide wireless services; • we use and rely on mobile network operators’ billing systems to charge our subscribers through the subscribers’ mobile phone bills; • we rely on mobile network operators’ collection proxy services to collect payments from subscribers; and • we rely on mobile network operators’ infrastructure to further develop our wireless services. We face significant risks with respect to our arrangements with mobile network operators which could adversely affect our wireless revenues. Such risks include the following: • Mobile network operators have changed their operating rules and may make further changes at any time. Such previous or any future changes could result in our being required to pay penalties for breaching or being alleged to have breached certain provisions of our agreements with the mobile network operators under new or revised operation rules, or having our service discontinued with or without notice. Changes in these operating rules could also have a material impact on our wireless revenues; • We provide wireless services through our Website and record the delivery of the service in our internal systems. However, in order to recognize revenues and receive payment for services provided, we rely on billing confirmations from mobile network operators as to the actual amount of services they have billed to their mobile customers. We are unable to collect wireless service fees from an operator in certain circumstances due to technical issues with the operator’s network. We refer to these failures as an operator’s “failure rate”, which can vary from operator to operator. An operator’s failure rate can vary from month to month, ranging from 0% to 98% and may change at any time without notice. If an operator encounters technical problems, increases in the failure rate for that operator could occur; • The service fees we pay for using an operator’s infrastructure are set on the basis of negotiation of annual contracts. Our negotiation leverage is limited and if an operator increases its service fees or does not comply with the terms of our contract, our gross margin and profitability could be materially reduced. It is possible that some subsidiaries of the mobile network operators may consider increasing their service fees; • We are required to follow the operators’ guidance in setting up wireless service fees. We also rely on the mobile network operators to collect the fees on our behalf which they have billed to our mobile customers. If an operator requires us to reduce the wireless service fees charged to mobile customers, disallows us from billing of certain inactive customers, refuses to pay us, requires us to share bad debts expenses, or, limits the amount of wireless service fees which can be billed or requires us to comply with any new billing rules, our wireless revenues could be adversely affected; 22 Table of Contents • An operator’s refusal to allow us to supply certain services could disrupt our wireless services. For example, during the period from September 1, 2004 to July 31, 2005, our MMS services were temporarily suspended by CMCC, based on allegations that Beijing Sohu, which was one of our VIEs at the time, breached certain provisions of its agreement with a CMCC subsidiary; • An operator could launch competing services at any time and could work with content providers directly so that SPs’ abilities to diversify their products might be limited. For example, in July 2006, CMCC introduced M.Music, an integrated music service platform which CMCC works directly with music record companies to provide downloads of various songs and music. If mobile network operators were unwilling to work with us, we would not be able to find substitute partners; and • CMCC set up rules for ranking of WAP service providers on its Monternet browser, which has a significant impact on WAP revenues. CMCC may change the rules at any time to affect the rank of the top five listings. As a result, the growth of our WAP revenues was lower than expected and we may lose our existing ranking because of lower visit rates. Many of our current and potential wireless customers have only limited experience using the Internet for subscription purposes, and may not be willing to fully embrace the products and services we offer, which would adversely affect our future revenues and business expansion. The wireless market is new and rapidly evolving in China. Many of our current and potential wireless customers have limited experience using the Internet for subscription services. The growth in our wireless revenues depends upon user acceptance of our existing and new services, such as our wireless dating, news, sports and jokes content, mobile alumni club and other products. Because these services are new and untested, we do not have a clear understanding of consumer behavior, making it difficult to predict future growth or usage. Customers may not be willing to fully embrace the products and services we offer. Our investment in the online games business may not be successful. We have invested and may invest further in our online games business. The offering of online games is currently one of the fastest growing online services in the PRC. We currently rely on licenses from third party game companies. Our license of Knight Online expired in November 2006, and we discontinued our operation of Knight Online when the license contract expired. Our license of Blade Online will expire in September 2008. In the event that a license expires and we wish to renew such license, the licensor may only agree to renew such license upon an increase in the license fee that we pay to such licensor. In addition, our business might be significantly affected if there are any changes in the PRC laws or regulations in relation to these businesses. For example, the PRC government has issued a new law to implement restrictions and further regulation on the online games industry. Based on these rules, online games companies are required to install an “anti-fatigue system”, which discourages game participants from playing games for more than five hours per day. In addition, the PRC government is planning to make a compulsory requirement for online game players to register their real names and provide ID numbers when playing games. Also, with the requirement of the real name registration for online game players, the government will implement a rating system for online games. For those online games rated as not suitable for children under the age of 18, children under the age of 18 will be unable to access such game if a real name registration is in place. As a result, our revenues from online games may be adversely affected. We may not succeed in these markets despite our investment of time and funds. If we fail to achieve a significant market position, we will fail to realize our anticipated returns on these investments. Our strategy of acquiring complementary assets, technologies and businesses may fail and result in equity or earnings dilution. As a component of our growth strategy, we have acquired and intend to actively identify and acquire assets, technologies and businesses that are complementary to our existing portal business. Our acquisitions could result in the use of substantial amounts of cash, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, significant impairment losses related to goodwill or amortization expenses related to intangible assets and exposure to undisclosed or potential liabilities of acquired companies. Moreover, the resources expended in identifying and consummating acquisitions may be significant. Furthermore, any acquisition we decide to pursue may be subject to the approval of the relevant PRC governmental authorities, as well as any applicable PRC rules and regulations. Considering the fast changing legal environment, our acquisition may be subject to government’s further scrutiny and the acquisition structures we used to adopt may be found to be inappropriate. The acquisition and integration of Go2Map create certain risks and uncertainties. We completed the acquisitions of all of the outstanding capital stock of Go2Map Inc., and all of the registered share capital of Tu Xing Tian Xia, a company incorporated in the PRC which was an affiliate of Go2Map Inc (collectively “Go2Map”) in May 2005. As a result of these acquisitions, we continue to spend considerable time and effort integrating into our company the employees, organization, customers and operations of Go2Map. Also, there can be no assurance that we will succeed in realizing the anticipated economic benefits of the acquisitions, including increased sponsored search revenues. During the year ended December 31, 2006, Go2Map was operating at a loss. In addition, we might be required to obtain additional licenses or approvals from relevant government authorities based on the application laws and regulations and might incur additional costs and expenses in obtaining any such licenses and approvals. 23 Table of Contents We may be required to record a charge to earnings if we must reassess our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets arising from acquisitions. We are required under generally accepted accounting principles to review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization and slower growth rates in our industry. We may be required to record a charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined. As of December 31, 2006, our goodwill and amortizable intangible assets arising from acquisitions were approximately $62.0 million. Changes in accounting rules for share-based compensation may adversely affect our operating results, our stock price and our competitiveness in the employee marketplace. Our performance is largely dependent on talented and highly skilled individuals. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to identify, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. We have a history of using employee stock options and restricted stock units to align employees’ interest with the interests of our shareholders and encourage quality employees to join us and retain our quality employees by providing competitive compensation packages. On January 1, 2006, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment, (or SFAS 123(R)), which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based compensation based on estimated fair values. As a result, our operating results contain a charge for share-based compensation expense related to employee stock options and restricted stock units. The recognition of share-based compensation in our statement of operations would have a negative effect on our reported results and earnings per share, which could in turn negatively affect our stock price. On the other hand, if we alter our employee stock incentive plan to minimize the share-based compensation expenses, it may limit our ability to continue to use share-based awards as a tool to attract and retain our employees, and it may adversely affect our operations. Our failure to manage growth and diversify our business could harm us. We have experienced dramatic growth in personnel since our inception and we expect to continue to hire additional personnel in selected areas. This growth requires significant time and resource commitments from us and our senior management. If we are unable to effectively manage a large and geographically dispersed group of employees or anticipate our future growth, our business could be adversely affected. Additionally, our business relies on our financial reporting and data systems (including our systems for billing users of our fee-based services), which have grown increasingly complex in the recent past due to acquisitions and the diversification and complexity of our business. Our ability to operate our business efficiently depends on these systems, and if we are unable to adapt to these changes, our business could be adversely affected. If we fail to establish and maintain relationships with content and technology providers and infrastructure providers, we may not be able to attract and retain users. Although, we may secure more attractive, high-quality music and content after the acquisition of 21 East, we will still need to rely on a number of third party relationships to attract traffic and provide content in order to make our Websites more attractive to users and advertisers. Most of our arrangements with content providers are short-term and may be terminated at the convenience of the other party. Some content providers have increased the fees they charge us for their content. This trend could increase our costs and operating expenses and could adversely affect our ability to obtain content at an economically acceptable cost. We have also entered into exclusive agreements with some of our premier content providers. If we are not able to renew our exclusive deals or premier content become exclusive to our competitors, our attractiveness to users will be severely impaired. Except for the exclusive content, much of the third party content provided to our Websites is also available from other sources or may be provided to other Internet companies. If other Internet companies present the same or similar content in a superior manner, it would adversely affect our visitor traffic. Our business also depends significantly on relationships with leading technology and infrastructure providers and the licenses that the technology providers have granted to us. Our competitors may establish the same relationships as we have, which may adversely affect us. We may not be able to maintain these relationships or replace them on commercially attractive terms. For example, there are uncertainties in the wireless industry, such as the delayed issuance of 3G licenses and rumors concerning the possible restructuring of state-owned telecommunication companies, that increase our risk in maintaining co-operation relationship with mobile network operators. 24 Table of Contents We depend on key personnel and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose the services of our key executives and employees. Our future success is heavily dependent upon the continued service of our key executives, particularly Dr. Zhang, who is the founder, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board, and a major shareholder of our company and a direct and indirect major shareholder of High Century, Sohu Internet, Tu Xing Tian Xia and Feng Yang Tian Lang. We rely on his expertise in our business operations, and on his personal relationships with the relevant regulatory authorities, our customers and suppliers. If one or more of our key executives and employees are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them easily and our business may be severely disrupted. In addition, if any of our key executives or employees joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose customers and suppliers and incur additional expenses to recruit and train personnel. Each of our executive officers has entered into an employment agreement and a confidentiality, non-competition and non-solicitation agreement with us. However, the degree of protection afforded to an employer pursuant to confidentiality and non-competition undertakings governed by PRC law may be more limited when compared to the degree of protection afforded under the laws of other jurisdictions. We do not maintain key-man life insurance for any of our key executives. We also rely on a number of key technology staff for the operation of Sohu. Given the competitive nature of the industry, the risk of key technology staff leaving Sohu is high and could have a disruptive impact on our operations. Rapid growth and a rapidly changing operating environment strain our limited resources. We have limited operational, administrative and financial resources, which may be inadequate to sustain the growth we want to achieve. As the demands of our audience and the needs of our customers change, and as the number of our users and volume of online advertising, and wireless activities increase, we will need to increase our investment in our network infrastructure, facilities and other areas of operations. If we are unable to manage our growth and expansion effectively, the quality of our services could deteriorate and our business may suffer. Our future success will depend on, among other things, our ability to: • adapt our services and maintain and improve the quality of our services; • protect our Website from hackers and unauthorized access; • continue training, motivating and retaining our existing employees and attract and integrate new employees; and • develop and improve our operational, financial, accounting and other internal systems and controls. Risks Related to China’s Telecommunications Infrastructure The telecommunications infrastructure in China, which is not as well developed as in the United States, may limit our growth. The telecommunications infrastructure in China is not well developed. Our growth will depend on the PRC government and state-owned enterprises establishing and maintaining a reliable Internet and telecommunications infrastructure to reach a broader base of Internet users in China. The Internet infrastructure, standards, protocols and complementary products, services and facilities necessary to support the demands associated with continued growth may not be developed on a timely basis or at all by the PRC government and state-owned enterprises. We depend on ChinaNet, CNC and China Telecom for telecommunications services, and any interruption in these services may result in severe disruptions to our business. Although private Internet service providers exist in China, almost all access to the Internet is maintained through ChinaNet, currently owned by CNC and China Telecom, under the administrative control and regulatory supervision of the MII. We rely on this infrastructure and CNC and China Telecom to provide data communications capacity primarily through local telecommunications lines. Although the government has announced aggressive plans to develop the national information infrastructure, this infrastructure may not be developed and the Internet infrastructure in China may not be able to support the continued growth of Internet usage. In addition, we will have no access to alternative networks and services, on a timely basis if at all, in the event of any infrastructure disruption or failure. We have signed Bandwidth Provision and Server Hosting Agreements with CNC and China Telecom. Under these agreements, we established two main service provision centers to maintain most of our servers in Beijing. However, as there are limited telecommunication infrastructure service providers, we may not be able to lease additional bandwidth on acceptable terms, on a timely basis, or at all. If we are not able to lease additional bandwidth, the development of our business can be affected. 25 Table of Contents The high cost of Internet access may limit the growth of the Internet in China and impede our growth. Access to the Internet in China remains relatively expensive, and may make it less likely for users to access and transact business over the Internet. Unfavorable rate developments could further decrease our visitor traffic and our ability to derive revenues from transactions over the Internet. To the extent we are unable to scale our systems to meet the increasing PRC Internet population, we will be unable to expand our user base and increase our attractiveness to advertisers and merchants. As Web page volume and traffic increase in China, we may not be able to scale our systems proportionately. To the extent we do not successfully address our capacity constraints, our operations may be severely disrupted, and we may not be able to expand our user base and increase our attractiveness to advertisers and merchants. Unexpected network interruptions caused by system failures may result in reduced visitor traffic, reduced revenue and harm to our reputation. Our Website operations are dependent upon Web browsers, Internet service providers, content providers and other Website operators in China, which have experienced significant system failures and system outages in the past. Our users have in the past experienced difficulties due to system failures unrelated to our systems and services. Any system failure or inadequacy that causes interruptions in the availability of our services, or increases the response time of our services, as a result of increased traffic or otherwise, could reduce our user satisfaction, future traffic and our attractiveness to users and advertisers. Our operations are vulnerable to natural disasters and other events, as we only have limited backup systems and do not maintain any backup servers outside of China. We have limited backup systems and have experienced system failures and electrical outages from time to time in the past, which have disrupted our operations. Most of our servers and routers are currently hosted in a single location within the premises of Beijing Telecom Administration (or BTA). Our disaster recovery plan cannot fully ensure safety in the event of damage from fire, floods, typhoons, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events. If any of the foregoing occurs, we may experience a complete system shutdown. We do not carry any business interruption insurance. To improve the performance and to prevent disruption of our services, we may have to make substantial investments to deploy additional servers or one or more copies of our Websites to mirror our online resources. Although we carry property insurance with low coverage limits, our coverage may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses, particularly with respect to loss of business and reputation, that may occur. Our network operations may be vulnerable to hacking, viruses and other disruptions, which may make our products and services less attractive and reliable. Internet usage could decline if any well-publicized compromise of security occurs. “Hacking” involves efforts to gain unauthorized access to information or systems or to cause intentional malfunctions or loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment. Hackers, if successful, could misappropriate proprietary information or cause disruptions in our service. We may be required to expend capital and other resources to protect our Website against hackers. We cannot assure you that any measure we may take will be effective. In addition, the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could expose us to a material risk of loss or litigation and possible liability, as well as materially damage our reputation and decrease our user traffic. Risks Related to China’s Regulation Environment If our current ownership structure is found to be in violation of current or future PRC laws, rules or regulations regarding the legality of foreign investment in the PRC Internet sector, we could be subject to severe penalties. We conduct our Internet and value-added telecommunication operations solely in the PRC through our indirect wholly owned subsidiaries, Beijing ITC, Sohu Era, Sohu Software, Go2Map Software, Sogou Technology and Sohu Media (or collectively PRC subsidiaries), and VIEs, High Century, Sohu Entertainment, Sohu Internet, Goodfeel, Huohu, Tu Xing Tian Xia, Feng Yang Tian Lang, Sogou Information, Guangzhou Interactive and 21 East Beijing. We are a Delaware corporation, while Sohu Hong Kong, our indirect wholly owned subsidiary and the parent company of Beijing ITC, Sohu Era, Sohu Software and Sohu Media, is a Hong Kong corporation and a foreign person under PRC law. In order to meet ownership requirements under PRC law which restrict or prohibit wholly foreign owned enterprises, or WFOEs, from operating in certain industries such as Internet information, wireless, Internet access, and certain other industries, our VIEs are companies incorporated in the PRC and owned by Dr. Zhang and certain other employees of Sohu, rather than by Sohu. The PRC began several years ago to regulate its Internet sector by making pronouncements or enacting regulations regarding the legality of foreign investment in the PRC Internet sector and the existence and enforcement of content restrictions on the Internet. We believe that our current ownership structure complies with all existing PRC laws, rules and regulations. There are, however, substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation of current PRC Internet laws and regulations. The PRC government may issue new interpretations of the regulations regarding supervision of the Information industry from time to time. In July 2006, the MII issued a notice to strengthen management of foreign investment in and operation of value-added telecommunication services. 26 Table of Contents The notice emphasizes that foreign investors who wish to engage in value-added telecommunication services must strictly follow the relevant rules and regulations on foreign investment in telecommunication sectors. The notice also prohibits domestic telecommunication services providers from leasing, transferring or selling telecommunications business operating licenses to any foreign investor in any form, or providing any resources, sites or facilities to any foreign investor for their illegal operation of a telecommunications business in China. According to the notice, either the holder of a value-added telecommunication service license or its shareholders must directly own the domain names and trademarks used by such license holders in their provision of Value-added Telecommunication Services. The notice further requires each license holder to have the necessary facilities, including servers, for its approved business operations and to maintain such facilities in the regions covered by its license. Value-added services license holders are required to evaluate the compliance with the requirements set forth in the notice. We are in the process of transferring several of our domain names and trademarks to Sohu Internet, which licensed the same to Sohu Era and Sohu Media, and we may modify other certain aspects of our business structure in order to further comply with these requirements. In addition, new PRC Internet and foreign exchange laws and regulations were recently adopted. Accordingly, it is possible that the PRC government may ultimately take a view contrary to ours. In addition, under the agreement reached in November 1999 between the PRC and the United States concerning the United States’ support of China’s entry into the World Trade Organization, or WTO, regulation of foreign investment in PRC Internet services is to be liberalized to allow for 30% foreign ownership in key telecommunication services, including PRC Internet ventures, for the first year after China’s entry into the WTO, 49% in the second year and 50% thereafter. China officially entered the WTO on December 11, 2001. However, the implementation of China’s WTO accession agreements is still subject to various conditions. Accordingly, it is possible that the relevant PRC authorities could, at any time, assert that any portion or all of the Sohu PRC subsidiaries’ and Sohu VIEs’ existing or future ownership structure and businesses violate existing or future PRC laws, regulations or policies. It is also possible that the new laws or regulations governing the PRC Internet sector that have been adopted or may be adopted in the future will prohibit or restrict foreign investment in, or other aspects of, any of our PRC subsidiaries’ and VIEs’ current or proposed businesses and operations. In addition, any such new laws and regulations may be retroactively applied to us and our PRC subsidiaries and VIEs. If we or any of our PRC subsidiaries and VIEs were found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, the relevant PRC authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations, including, without limitation, the following: • levying fines; • confiscating our income; • revoking our licenses; • shutting down our servers and/or blocking our Websites; • requiring us to restructure our ownership structure or operations; and • requiring us to discontinue any portion or all of its Internet and value-added telecommunication businesses. We may rely on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by Sohu.com Limited, our wholly owned subsidiary, to fund any cash requirements we may have. We may not be able to obtain cash from distributions to the extent such distributions are restricted by PRC law or future debt covenants. For any dividend received by Sohu.com Inc., it may be subject to US tax at 34% to 35%. We are a holding company with no operating assets other than investments in Chinese operating entities, including Beijing ITC, Sohu Era, Sohu Software, Go2Map Software, Sogou Technology and Sohu Media, through an intermediate holding company, Sohu.com Limited, our wholly-owned subsidiary in the Cayman Islands, and our VIEs, High Century, Sohu Entertainment, Sohu Internet, Goodfeel, Huohu, Tu Xing Tian Xia, Feng Yang Tian Lang, Sogou Information, Guangzhou Interactive and 21 East Beijing. We may need to rely on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by Sohu.com Limited for our cash requirements in excess of any cash raised from investors and retained by us. If Beijing ITC, Sohu Era, Sohu Software, Go2Map Software, Sogou Technology and Sohu Media incur debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict Beijing ITC’s, Sohu Era’s, Sohu Software’s, Go2Map Software’s, Sogou Technology’s and Sohu Media’s ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. In addition, PRC legal restrictions permit payment of dividends by Beijing ITC, Sohu Era, Sohu Software, Go2Map Software, Sogou Technology and Sohu Media only out of their net income, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Under PRC law, Beijing ITC, Sohu Era, Sohu Software, Go2Map Software, Sogou Technology and Sohu Media are also required to set aside 10% of their net income each year to fund certain reserve funds until these reserves equal 50% of the amount of paid-in capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. Furthermore, subject to possible reduction to the extent that our PRC subsidiaries pay a tax in China and would therefore be entitled to a foreign tax credit, dividends received by Sohu.com Inc. would be subject to taxation at United States tax rates of 34% or 35%. We do not expect any dividends or other distributions on equity from Sohu.com Limited in the foreseeable future. 27 Table of Contents We may be unable to collect long-term loans to officers and employees or exercise management influence associated with High Century, Sohu Entertainment, Goodfeel, Huohu, Sogou Information and Guangzhou Interactive. As of December 31, 2006, Sohu had outstanding long-term loans of $9.9 million to Dr. Zhang, Sohu’s Chief Executive Officer and a major Sohu shareholder, and certain of our employees. The long-term loans are used to finance investments in High Century; High Century, which is owned 80% by Dr. Zhang and 20% by an employee; Sohu Entertainment, which is owned by two of our employees; Goodfeel, which is owned by two of our employees; Huohu, which is owned 75% by Sohu Era and 25% by an employee; Sogou Information, which is owned by two of our employees, and Guangzhou Interactive, which is owned 50% by Sohu Internet and 50% by High Century. High Century, Sohu Entertainment, Goodfeel, Huohu, Sogou Information and Guangzhou Interactive are used to facilitate our participation in telecommunications, Internet content and certain other businesses in China where foreign ownership is either prohibited or restricted. As of December 31, 2006, the loans also included amounts used to finance investments in Beijing Sohu, which was owned 80% by Dr. Zhang and 20% by High Century, and was liquidated in February 2007. The loan agreements contain provisions that, subject to PRC law, (i) the loans can only be repaid to us by transferring the shares of High Century, Sohu Entertainment, Goodfeel, Huohu, Sogou Information or Guangzhou Interactive to us; (ii) the shares of High Century, Sohu Entertainment, Goodfeel, Huohu, Sogou Information or Guangzhou Interactive cannot be transferred without our approval; and (iii) we have the right to appoint all directors and senior management personnel of High Century, Sohu Entertainment, Goodfeel, Huohu, Sogou Information and Guangzhou Interactive. Dr. Zhang and the other employee borrowers have pledged all of their shares in High Century, Sohu Entertainment, Goodfeel, Huohu, Sogou Information and Guangzhou Interactive as collateral for the loans and the loans bear no interest and are due on demand after November 2003 in the case of High Century; after November 2005 in the case of Huohu; after August 12, 2006 in the case of Sogou Information; after October 2006 in the case of Goodfeel; after November 3, 2006 in the case of Sohu Entertainment and the earlier of a demand or, in any case, at such time as Dr. Zhang or the other employee borrowers, as the case may be, is not an employee of Sohu. Sohu does not intend to request repayment of the loans as long as PRC regulations prohibit it from directly investing in businesses being undertaken by the VIEs. Because these loans can only be repaid by the borrowers’ transferring the shares of the various entities, our ability to ultimately realize the effective return of the amounts advanced under these loans will depend on the profitability of High Century, Sohu Entertainment, Goodfeel, Huohu, Sogou Information and Guangzhou Interactive is uncertain. Furthermore, because of uncertainties associated with the PRC law, ultimate enforcement of the loan agreements is uncertain. Accordingly, we may never be able to collect these loans or exercise influence over High Century, Sohu Entertainment, Goodfeel, Huohu, Sogou Information and Guangzhou Interactive. We depend upon contractual arrangements with High Century, Sohu Entertainment, Sohu Internet, Goodfeel, Huohu, Tu Xing Tian Xia, Feng Yang Tian Lang, Sogou Information and Guangzhou Interactive for the success of our business and these arrangements may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct ownership of these businesses and may be difficult to enforce. Because we conduct our Internet operations only in the PRC, and are restricted or prohibited by the PRC government from owning Internet content or telecommunication operations in the PRC, we are dependent on High Century, Sohu Entertainment, Sohu Internet, Goodfeel, Huohu, Tu Xing Tian Xia, Feng Yang Tian Lang, Sogou Information and Guangzhou Interactive, in which we have no direct ownership interest, to provide those services through contractual agreements between the parties. These arrangements may not be as effective in providing control over our Internet content or telecommunications operations as direct ownership of these businesses. For example, some of our subsidiaries and VIEs could fail to take actions required for our business, such as entering into content development contracts with potential content suppliers or failing to maintain the necessary permit for the content servers. If High Century, Sohu Entertainment, Sohu Internet, Goodfeel, Huohu, Tu Xing Tian Xia, Feng Yang Tian Lang, Sogou Information and Guangzhou Interactive fail to perform its obligations under these agreements, we may have to rely on legal remedies under PRC law. We cannot assure you that such remedies under PRC law would be effective or sufficient. Dr. Zhang, our Chief Executive Officer and a major shareholder of our company, is also the direct and indirect majority shareholder of High Century, Sohu Internet, Tu Xing Tian Xia, Feng Yang Tian Lang and Guangzhou Interactive. As a result, our contractual relationships with those companies could be viewed as entrenching his management position or transferring certain value to him, especially if any conflict with him arises. If we are found to be in violation of current or future PRC laws, rules or regulations regarding Internet-related services and telecom-related activities, we could be subject to severe penalties. The PRC has enacted regulations that apply to Internet-related services and telecom-related activities. While many aspects of these regulations remain unclear, they purport to limit and require licensing of various aspects of the provision of Internet information and content, online advertising and value-added telecommunication services. In addition, the PRC may promulgate new laws, rules or 28 Table of Contents regulations at any time. If these current or future laws, rules or regulations regarding Internet-related activities, are interpreted to be inconsistent with our ownership structure and/or our business operations, our business will be severely impaired and we could be subject to severe penalties. In addition, we may be required to apply for a new license or new qualification or transfer from an old type of license to a new type of license at any time as a result of the requirements of newly promulgated laws or new regulations. From the promulgation of such requirements to the final issuance of the license or qualification, there might be a long pending period. Although the issuance of the new license will finally trace back to the date of filing of the application, we may be held liable for operating without a proper license and may be fined for the operation during the application period. We may not be able to collect payments of our wireless fees if the PRC government determines that our existing ownership structure does not comply with PRC laws, rules or regulations. As discussed above, the PRC began several years ago to regulate its Internet sector by making pronouncements or enacting regulations regarding the legality of foreign investment in the PRC Internet sector. We believe that our current ownership structure complies with all existing PRC laws, rules and regulations. There are, however, substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation of current PRC Internet laws and regulations. It is possible that the PRC government’s view will ultimately be contrary to ours. If the PRC government were to take a contrary view, we might not be able to collect payments of our wireless fees, which we receive from Sohu Internet and Goodfeel, which in turn collect the fees from mobile network operators. Even if we are in compliance with PRC governmental regulations relating to licensing and foreign investment prohibitions, the PRC government may prevent us from distributing, and we may be subject to liability for, content that it believes is inappropriate. The PRC has enacted regulations governing Internet access and the distribution of news and other information. In the past, the PRC government has stopped the distribution of information over the Internet that it believes to violate PRC law, including content that is obscene, incites violence, endangers national security, is contrary to the national interest or is defamatory. In addition, we may not publish certain news items, such as news relating to national security, without permission from the PRC government. Furthermore, the Ministry of Public Security has the authority to make any local Internet service provider block any Website maintained outside the PRC at its sole discretion. Even if we comply with PRC governmental regulations relating to licensing and foreign investment prohibitions, if the PRC government were to take any action to limit or prohibit the distribution of information through our network or to limit or regulate any current or future content or services available to users on our network, our business would be harmed. We are also subject to potential liabilities for content on our Websites that is deemed inappropriate and for any unlawful actions of our subscribers and other users of our systems under regulations promulgated by the MII, such potential liabilities including, but not limited to, the imposition of fines or even the shutting down of the Website. Furthermore, we are required to delete content that clearly violates the laws of the PRC and report content that we suspect may violate PRC law. We may have difficulty determining the type of content that may result in liability for us and, if we are wrong, we may be prevented from operating our Websites. We may not have exclusive rights over the marks that are crucial to our business, including but not limited to “Sohu.com”, “Sogou”, “17173”, “Focus.cn”, “Goodfeel” and “Go2Map”. We have applied for the registration of our key marks in the PRC, including but not limited to Sohu.com, Sogou, 17173, Focus.cn, Goodfeel and Go2Map, so as to establish and protect our exclusive rights to the marks. We have succeeded in registering the marks “Sohu.com”, “17173”, “Focus.cn”, “GoodFeel” and “Go2Map” in the PRC under certain classes. The applications for the registration of the other marks or some marks under other classes are still under examination by the Trademark Office of PRC. Completion of the registrations is subject to the Trademark Office of PRC’s determination that there are no prior rights in the PRC. Any rejection of these applications could adversely affect our rights to these marks. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties, and the expenses incurred in protecting our intellectual property rights, may adversely affect our business. We regard our copyrights, service marks, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property as critical to our success. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties may adversely affect our business and reputation. We rely on trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements with our employees, customers, business partners and others to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for third parties to obtain and use our intellectual property without authorization. Furthermore, the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property in Internet-related industries are uncertain and still evolving. In particular, the laws of the PRC and certain other countries are uncertain or do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Moreover, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Future litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. 29 Table of Contents We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims, which may force us to incur substantial legal expenses and, if determined adversely against us, materially disrupt our business. We cannot be certain that our products, services and intellectual property used in our normal course of business do not or will not infringe valid patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. We have in the past been, are currently, and may in the future be, subject to claims and legal proceedings relating to the intellectual property of others in the ordinary course of our business. In particular, if we are found to have violated the intellectual property rights of others, we may be enjoined from using such intellectual property, may be ordered to pay a fine and may incur licensing fees or be forced to develop alternatives. We may incur substantial expenses in defending against these third party infringement claims, regardless of their merit. Successful infringement claims against us may result in substantial monetary liability or may materially disrupt the conduct of our business by restricting or prohibiting our use of the intellectual property in question. For example, during 2006 five United States movie companies commenced a lawsuit against us in the PRC alleging that a free movie download service we had been providing infringed their copyrights in the movies. In December 2006, the PRC court decided the case against us, and ordered us to pay damages of approximately $138,000 to the U.S. movie companies. In addition, we provide search engine facilities capable of locating and accessing links to download MP3 music, movies, images and other multimedia files and/or other content hosted on third party Websites, which may be protected by law. Although, in a recent judgment in China, the court deemed that one of the industry participants was not infringed the rights of copyright owners for its MP3 search services, we still may face risks of increasing amounts of claims or lawsuits relating to our MP3 services in the future. We may be subject to, and may expend significant resources in defending against claims based on the content and services we provide over all of our Websites. As our services may be used to download and distribute information to others, there is a risk that claims may be made against us for defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement or other claims based on the nature and content of such information. Furthermore, we could be subject to claims for the online activities of our visitors and incur significant costs in their defense. In the past, claims based on the nature and content of information that was posted online by visitors have been made in the United States against companies that provide online services. We do not carry any liability insurance against such risks. We could be exposed to liability for the selection of listings that may be accessible through our Websites or through content and materials that our visitors may post in classifieds, message boards, chat rooms or other interactive services. If any information provided through our services contains errors, third parties may make claims against us for losses incurred in reliance on the information. We also offer Web-based e-mail and subscription services, which exposes us to potential liabilities or claims resulting from: • unsolicited e-mail; • lost or misdirected messages; • illegal or fraudulent use of e-mail; or • interruptions or delays in e-mail service. Investigating and defending any such claims may be expensive, even if they do not result in liability. Activities of Internet content providers are or will be subject to additional PRC regulations, which have not yet been put into effect. Our operations may not be consistent with these new regulations when put into effect, and, as a result, we could be subject to severe penalties. The MII has stated that the activities of Internet content providers are subject to regulation by various PRC government authorities, depending on the specific activities conducted by the Internet content provider. Various government authorities have stated publicly that they are in the process of preparing new laws and regulations that will govern these activities. The areas of regulation currently include online advertising, online news reporting, online publishing, online or wireless music providing, online securities trading, the provision of industry-specific (e.g., drug-related) information over the Internet and foreign investment in value-added telecommunication services. For instance, the MOC issued Several Opinions of Development and Supervision of Online Music in November 2006. In accordance with requirement of the MOC, we may submit all online music, which we distributed in the PRC through online or wireless ways, to the MOC for censoring and recording, and may be held liable for supervising nonprofit users’ distribution of online music on our portal. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we may be fined. Other aspects of our online operations may be subject to regulations in the future. Our operations may not be consistent with these new regulations when put into effect and, as a result, we may be subject to severe penalties as discussed above. 30 Table of Contents Regulation and censorship of information distribution in China may adversely affect our business. China has enacted regulations governing Internet access and the distribution of news and other information. Furthermore, the Propaganda Department of the Chinese Communist Party has been given the responsibility to censor news published in China to ensure, supervise and control a particular political ideology. In addition, the MII has published implementing regulations that subject online information providers to potential liability for contents included in their portals and the actions of subscribers and others using their systems, including liability for violation of PRC laws prohibiting the distribution of content deemed to be socially destabilizing. Furthermore, the MII may implement a requirement that users of blogs register under their real names. If such a regulation is implemented, our business may be negatively affected due to a decrease in the number of blog users. Furthermore, because many PRC laws, regulations and legal requirements with regard to the Internet are relatively new and untested, their interpretation and enforcement may involve significant uncertainty. In addition, the PRC legal system is a civil law system in which decided legal cases have limited binding force as legal precedents. As a result, in many cases a Website operator may have difficulties determining the type of content that may subject it to liability. Periodically, the Ministry of Public Security has stopped the distribution over the Internet of information which it believes to be socially destabilizing. The Ministry of Public Security has the authority to require any local Internet service provider to block any Website maintained outside China at its sole discretion. If the PRC government were to take action to limit or eliminate the distribution of information through our portal or to limit or regulate current or future applications available to users of our portal, our business would be adversely affected. The State Secrecy Bureau, which is directly responsible for the protection of state secrets of all PRC government and Chinese Communist Party organizations, is authorized to block any Website it deems to be leaking state secrets or failing to meet the relevant regulations relating to the protection of state secrets in the distribution of online information. Under the applicable regulations, we may be held liable for any content transmitted on our portal. Furthermore, where the transmitted content clearly violates the laws of the PRC, we will be required to delete it. Moreover, if we consider transmitted content suspicious, we are required to report such content. We must also undergo computer security inspections, and if we fail to implement the relevant safeguards against security breaches, we may be shut down. In addition, under recently adopted regulations, Internet companies which provide bulletin board systems, chat rooms or similar services, such as our company, must apply for the approval of the State Secrecy Bureau. As the implementing rules of these new regulations have not been issued, we do not know how or when we will be expected to comply, or how our business will be affected by the application of these regulations. Political and economic policies of the PRC government could affect our business. All of our business, operating assets, fixed assets and operations are located in China, and all of our revenues are derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our business may be adversely affected by changes in political, economic or social conditions in China, adjustments in PRC government policies or changes in laws and regulations. The economy of China differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in a number of respects, including: • structure; • level of government involvement; • level of development; • level of capital reinvestment; • growth rate; • control of foreign exchange; and • methods of allocating resources. Since 1949, China has been primarily a planned economy subject to a system of macroeconomic management. Although the PRC government still owns a significant portion of the productive assets in China, economic reform policies since the late 1970s have emphasized decentralization, autonomous enterprises and the utilization of market mechanisms. We cannot predict the future effects of the economic reform and macroeconomic measures adopted by the PRC government on our business or results of operations. The PRC legal system embodies uncertainties which could limit the legal protections available to us and you, or could lead to penalties on us. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. Our PRC operating subsidiaries, Beijing ITC, Sohu Era, Sohu Software, Go2Map Software, Sogou Technology and Sohu Media are wholly-foreign owned enterprises, or WFOEs, which are enterprises incorporated 31 Table of Contents in mainland China and wholly-owned by our indirect subsidiary, Sohu Hong Kong. Beijing ITC, Sohu Era, Sohu Software, Go2Map Software, Sogou Technology and Sohu Media are subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in mainland China. In addition, all of our subsidiaries and VIEs are incorporated in China and subject to all applicable Chinese laws and regulation. Because of the relatively short period for enacting such a comprehensive legal system, it is possible that the laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us and other foreign investors, including you, and may lead to penalties imposed on us because of the different understanding between the relevant authority and us. For example, according to current tax laws and regulation, we are responsible to pay business tax on a “Self-examination and Self-application” basis. However, since there is no clear guidance as to the applicability of those preferential treatments, we may be found in violation of the interpretation of local tax authorities with regard to the scope of taxable services and the percentage of tax rate and therefore might be subject to penalties, including but not limited to monetary penalties. In addition, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the PRC legal system, particularly with regard to the Internet, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. It may be difficult to enforce any civil judgments against us or our board of directors or officers, because most of our operating and/or fixed assets are located outside of the United States. Although we are incorporated in the State of Delaware, most of our operating and fixed assets are located in the PRC. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to enforce judgments outside the United States obtained in actions brought against us in the United States, including actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States or of the securities laws of any state of the United States. In addition, certain of our directors and officers (principally based in the PRC) and all or a substantial portion of their assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon those directors and officers, or to enforce against them or us judgments obtained in United States courts, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States or of the securities laws of any state of the United States. We have been advised by our PRC counsel that, in their opinion, there is doubt as to the enforceability in the PRC, in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of United States courts, of civil liabilities predicated solely upon the federal securities laws of the United States or the securities laws of any state of the United States. If tax benefits presently available to certain of our subsidiaries and VIEs located in China were not available, the income tax rate on most of our profits in China could increase to 33%. Presently, PRC law requires that a company, in order to be considered a “new technology enterprise”: (i) operate in the high-tech industry (which includes the Internet industry); (ii) be incorporated and operating in High and New Technology Development Zones, including Beijing Zhongguancun Science Park; (iii) receive 60% of its revenue from high-tech products or services; and (iv) have at least 20% of its employees involved in technology development. Each year new technology enterprises are subject to annual inspection to determine whether they continue to meet these requirements. Subject to the approval of the relevant tax authorities, the effective income tax rate for new technology enterprises registered and operating in Beijing Zhongguancun Science Park is 15%, while the local income tax will be exempted as long as the enterprise holds the new technology enterprise status. New technology enterprises are exempted from Chinese state corporate income tax for three years, beginning with their first year of operations, and are entitled to a 50% tax reduction at the rate of 7.5%, for the subsequent three years and 15% thereafter. Currently, our China-based subsidiaries and VIEs, Sohu Era, Sohu Internet, Sogou Information, Sogou Technology and Sohu Media enjoy tax benefits which are available to “new technology enterprises” beginning with their first year of operations. Providing there is no change in the new technology enterprise status or change in relevant regulations, Sohu Era and Sohu Internet are exempted from income tax for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005, are subject to a 7.5% tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2006 and the years ending December 31, 2007 and 2008, and are subject to a 15% tax rate for each year thereafter. Sogou Information, Sogou Technology and Sohu Media are exempted from income tax for the year ended December 31, 2006 and the years ending December 31, 2007 and 2008, are subject to a 7.5% tax rate for the years ending December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, and are subject to a 15% tax rate for each year thereafter. For these tax benefits to no longer be available, there would need to be a change in governmental policy or the governmental regulations concerning requirements necessary to be deemed a new technology enterprise, or we would have to be unable to meet the existing new technology enterprise requirements. If we did not meet the requirements of a new technology enterprise, we may be subject to enterprise income tax in China at rates up to 33%, which could cause a significant reduction in our after-tax income. Our subsidiaries and VIEs in China are subject to restrictions on paying dividends or making other payments to our overseas entities. We are a holding company and do not have any assets or conduct any business operations in China other than our investments in our Chinese subsidiaries and VIEs. As a result, we depend on dividend payments from our subsidiaries in China after they receive payments from our VIEs under various services and other arrangements. It is possible that our Chinese subsidiaries will not continue 32 Table of Contents to receive the payments in accordance with our contracts with our VIEs. To the extent that the VIEs have undistributed after tax net income, we must pay tax on behalf of our employees who hold interests in the VIEs when the VIEs distribute dividends in the future. The current dividend tax rate is 20%. In addition, under PRC law, our subsidiaries are only allowed to pay dividends to us out of their accumulated profits, if any, as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Moreover, our Chinese subsidiaries are required to set aside at least 10% of their respective accumulated profits, if any, up to 50% of their registered capital to fund certain mandated reserve funds that are not payable or distributable as cash dividends. The PRC government also imposes controls on the convertibility of RMB into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currencies out of China. We may experience difficulties in completing the administrative procedures necessary to obtain and remit foreign currencies. If we or any of our subsidiaries are unable to receive all of the revenues from our operations through these contractual or dividend arrangements, we may be unable to effectively finance our operations or pay dividends on our shares. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize our revenues effectively. Substantially all of our revenues and operating expenses are denominated in RMB. The RMB is currently freely convertible under the “current account”, which includes dividends, trade and service related foreign exchange transactions, but not under the “capital account”, which includes foreign direct investment. Currently, Beijing ITC or Sohu Era may purchase foreign exchange for settlement of “current account transactions”, including payment of dividends, without the approval of the State Administration for Foreign Exchange (or SAFE). Beijing ITC or Sohu Era may also retain foreign exchange in its current account (subject to a ceiling approved by the SAFE) to satisfy foreign exchange liabilities or to pay dividends. However, the relevant PRC governmental authorities may limit or eliminate our ability to purchase and retain foreign currencies in the future. Since a significant amount of our future revenues will be in the form of RMB, the existing and any future restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize revenue generated in RMB to fund our business activities outside China, if any, or expenditures denominated in foreign currencies. Foreign exchange transactions under the capital account are still subject to limitations and require approvals from the SAFE. This could affect Beijing ITC’s or Sohu Era’s ability to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing, including by means of loans or capital contributions from us. We may suffer currency exchange losses if the RMB depreciates relative to the US Dollar. Our reporting currency is the US Dollar. However, substantially all of our revenues are denominated in RMB. In July 2005, China reformed its exchange rate regime by establishing a managed floating exchange rate regime based on market supply and demand with reference to a basket of currencies. The RMB is no longer pegged to the US dollar and the exchange rate will have some flexibility. Hence, considering the floating exchange rate regime, if the RMB depreciates relative to the US Dollar, our revenues as expressed in our US Dollar financial statements will decline in value. In addition, there are very limited hedging transactions available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure, if at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert RMB into US Dollars. The market price of our common stock has been and will likely continue to be volatile. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, which may make it difficult for stockholders to sell shares of our common stock when desired or at attractive prices. The market price of our common stock has been volatile and is likely to continue to be so. The initial public offering price of our common stock in July 2000 was $13.00 per share. The trading price of our common stock subsequently dropped to a low of $0.52 per share on April 9, 2001. During 2005, the trading price of our common stock ranged from a low of $14.66 per share to a high of $23.74 per share. During 2006, the trading price of our common stock ranged from a low of $18.20 per share to a high of $29.43 per share. On March 6, 2007, the closing price of our common stock was $22.82 per share. In addition, the Nasdaq Stock Market’s National Market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for the securities of technology companies, and particularly Internet-related companies. The price for our common stock may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new products and media properties by us or our competitors, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us, and news reports relating to trends in our markets or general economic conditions. Additionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, all of whom have been granted stock options or other stock awards. 33 Table of Contents We issued $90.0 million of zero coupon convertible senior notes due July 2023 which we may not be able to repay in cash and could result in dilution of our earnings per share. In July 2003, we issued $90 million aggregate principal amount of zero coupon convertible senior notes due July 2023. The notes are convertible into our common stock at a conversion price of $44.76 per share, subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of specified events, which would result in the issuance of an aggregate of approximately two million shares. Therefore, each $1,000 principal amount of the notes will initially be convertible into 22.3414 shares of our common stock. Each holder of the notes will have the right, at the holder’s option, to require Sohu to repurchase all or any portion of the principal amount of the holder’s notes on July 14 in 2007, 2013 and 2018 at a price equal to 100% of the outstanding principal amount. We had early redeemed our zero coupon convertible senior notes with face value of $30,220,000 from the market in 2005 and 2006. We may also be required to repurchase all of the outstanding notes following a fundamental change of Sohu, such as a change of control, prior to maturity. As of December 31, 2006, the face value of outstanding zero coupon convertible senior notes was $59.8 million. All of the outstanding notes were classified as current liability as of December 31, 2006. We will continue to repurchase the outstanding notes on an ongoing and opportunistic basis. However, we may not have enough cash on hand or the ability to access cash to pay the notes if presented for redemption on a fundamental change, on a redemption date referred to above or at maturity. In addition, the redemption or purchase of our notes with shares of our common stock or the conversion of the notes into our common stock could result in a reduction of our earnings per share. We are controlled by a small group of our existing stockholders, whose interests may differ from other stockholders. Our Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Zhang, beneficially owns approximately 23.3% of the outstanding shares of our common stock and is our largest stockholder. Our Chief Executive Officer, together with our other executive officers and members of our Board of Directors, beneficially own approximately 26.5% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Accordingly these stockholders acting together will have significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the stockholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations, the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. They will also have significant influence in preventing or causing a change in control. In addition, without the consent of these stockholders, we may be prevented from entering into transactions that could be beneficial to us. The interests of these stockholders may differ from the interests of the other stockholders. Anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, our certificate of incorporation and Sohu’s Anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, our certificate of incorporation and Sohu’s Stockholder Rights Plan could delay or deter a change in control. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, as well as various provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, may make it more difficult to acquire our company or effect a change in control of our company, even if an acquisition or change in control would be in the interest of our stockholders or if an acquisition or change in control would provide our stockholders with a premium for their shares over then current market prices. For example, our certificate of incorporation provides for the division of the board of directors into two classes with staggered two-year terms and provides that stockholders have no right to take action by written consent and may not call special meetings of stockholders, each of which may make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our board in connection with, or obtain any necessary stockholder approval for, a proposed acquisition or change in control. In addition, we have adopted a stockholder rights plan under the terms of which, in general, if a person or group acquires more than 20% of the outstanding shares of common stock, all other Sohu stockholders would have the right to purchase securities from Sohu at a substantial discount to those securities’ fair market value, thus causing substantial dilution to the holdings of the person or group which acquires more than 20%. The stockholder rights plan may inhibit a change in control and, therefore, could adversely affect the stockholders’ ability to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for the common stock in connection with such a transaction. The power of our Board of Directors to designate and issue shares of preferred stock could have an adverse effect on holders of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to designate and issue one or more series of preferred stock, having rights and preferences as the board may determine, and any such designations and issuances could have an adverse effect on the rights of holders of common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 