Risk Factors.” These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof. Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS. Overview We are a leading provider of real-time service management software solutions designed to facilitate the identification, diagnosis and resolution of technology-related problems associated with the initiation and on-going support of services and products which are delivered across broadband or corporate computing networks. Our software solutions allow organizations to address the growing complexity and cost of servicing and supporting users and the key software and computing devices they rely on whether they are an employee of a corporate enterprise or a subscriber to a digital service, or both. Digital service providers, corporate enterprises and managed service providers can benefit from our software solutions through faster time-to-market for new or enhanced services and products, reduced operational costs, improved productivity and customer satisfaction. 3 Table of Contents Our software products offer organizations automated alternatives to traditional approaches used by technical professionals to identify, diagnose and resolve technical problems associated with installation, activation and on-going service and support of technology-enabled services and applications. Digital service providers (telecommunications companies and cable companies) can utilize our software across their broadband services including, high speed data, Voice over IP, or VoIP, and video, to help acquire new subscribers through automated installation, activation, verification and provisioning of services, retain subscribers via enhanced technical support and grow their business relationship with consumers and Small-to-Medium Business, or SMB, customers through automated provisioning of new added-value services such as remote device management and home networking. Corporate IT departments can use our software to proactively address and improve the cost-effectiveness and efficiency of their technical support organizations through an integrated portfolio of self-healing, mass-healing and integrated service automation capabilities for interactive chat, remote assistance and problem diagnosis and resolution. Managed service providers that provide IT support to their corporate enterprise customers can also realize similar benefits from our software solutions. Industry Background Technology has increasingly become a fundamental part of everyday life for a growing number of individuals around the world. These technologies include personal computers and mobile devices, home networks, digital video, digital photography, other consumer-oriented technologies, as well as delivery of digital services such as high speed data, Video over DSL (IPTV) and VoIP. Given this proliferation of technology both inside and outside the workplace, we believe there is an opportunity to augment, automate and or otherwise replace the traditional manual approaches to resolving IT service and support issues experienced by the customers of digital service providers, employees of corporate enterprises and corporate customers of managed service providers. Digital Service Providers The availability of customer offerings for high speed data, VoIP, and digital video services, which industry sources often refer to as the “triple play”, is changing the dynamics of the digital services market world-wide. The dynamics are anticipated to change even further and grow in complexity, as wireless services grow in popularity and “triple play” evolves to “multi-play” service delivery. The number of worldwide internet broadband subscribers surpassed 215 million in 2005, according to Computer Industry Almanac research. The study further predicts that the number of worldwide broadband internet subscribers will reach 500 million by the end of this decade. Separate consumer research indicates that those customers opting for triple play services desire one low price, one bill, and one point of accountability, one reliable network—and one guarantee of a great customer experience. We believe service providers are reacting to these market dynamics in order to maximize the lifetime value of a subscriber to the business and prevent their subscribers from leaving to consolidate a broader range of services through a competitor. We believe that the ability to effectively and cost efficiently address the growing number of subscriber technical service issues for new triple play or multi-play services is critical for providers to successfully acquire new subscribers, introduce new services, increase overall customer satisfaction and reduce subscriber turnover. Enterprises Today’s enterprise IT organizations are tasked with managing, supporting and servicing an ever expanding array of technologies. This challenge, combined with a redefinition of the workplace to include the office, the home and any point in-between, has made keeping the enterprise secure from virus attacks, ensuring software license and regulatory compliance, maintaining business critical applications and responding to end-user requests for technical assistance in real time, an increasingly difficult and expensive task. For example, according to Gartner Group research, the cost of supporting a mobile laptop computer can range from 34% to 68% higher than a desktop computer. Adding further perspective to this expense is the fact that, according to Current Analysis 4 Table of Contents research issued in January 2005, the retail sales of U.S. laptop computers in the prior quarter surpassed the rate of desktop computer sales for the first time in history. Enterprise IT departments are using a wide range of discrete technologies to keep end-users supported and ensure that their computing endpoints, especially remote and mobile devices such as laptops and PDAs, are operational, secure and in compliance with corporate IT standards. But the use of these myriad technologies has created a management challenge for many enterprises. For example, according to the 2005 FBI Computer Crime research study, 9 out of 10 organizations experienced computer security incidents in the last year, despite the fact that in the FBI’s prior year security survey, 99% of respondents had deployed anti-virus protection of some kind. With the increasing number of remote and mobile users, tracking and managing the breadth of applications on endpoints, keeping endpoints current on key software such as virus protection software, ensuring remote connectivity to corporate networks, and supporting distributed applications are just a few of the issues that can interrupt business continuity. For example, when end-users have a request for information or otherwise need IT technical support, they want to get personalized, meaningful answers easily and quickly using whatever interaction channel is available to them – web-based self-service, live online chat, telephone assistance or email. The traditional approaches that enterprises have embraced to address these challenges include reliance upon heavily staffed internal IT help desks and call centers, on-site support professionals and third-party vendor support. These approaches to meeting endpoint management plus technical support and service needs have generally proven to be ineffective for many enterprises, given their costly and time-intensive nature and the difficulty to scale across expanding and distributed business networks that can extend globally. Strategy We are a leading provider of real-time service management software solutions designed to facilitate the identification, diagnosis and resolution of technology-related problems associated with the initiation and on-going support of services and products which are delivered across broadband or corporate computing networks. Key elements of our strategy include: Optimizing Customer Value We have always focused significant energy and effort on working with customers to ensure they are receiving maximum value from the solutions we have implemented. It is our belief that a highly successful and referenceable customer community is a key element for our long-term growth. We are implementing additional programs and activities to help ensure that our customers are maximizing the value of our products. This includes key enhancements to our software products that better enable our customers to identify and report on the business value they receive from our products, introduction of new programs to work more directly with customers to ensure that we have a current understanding of how our products are or are not meeting our customers’ goals, additions to our products and expansion of our professional services offerings to enhance our ability to enable our customers and business partners to realize initial and ongoing value from our products. Leverage our Proven Product Success The triple play of high speed data, digital video and VoIP services is changing the dynamics of the digital service market worldwide. We believe that service providers are looking for complete and proven solutions which can enable them to deal with the complexities of installation, activation, verification and on-going service and support of these services to new and existing subscribers. Over the past year, we have both enhanced our existing products and also introduced new products which help digital service providers address a number of the key challenges related to supporting these new services from both a network view as well as from a premise or end-point computing view. 5 Table of Contents We intend to leverage our relationships with leading cable and DSL companies and expand our presence with them as they introduce new triple play services. We also believe that our existing products to support installation, verification and on-going support of high speed data services will be attractive to service providers who have not yet implemented solutions for current high speed services or have done so using internal resources or other third-party solutions. We believe they will find our solutions attractive as they look for more cost effective and complete solutions which can easily be extended to support other triple play services. In the enterprise market, we intend to focus our attention on leveraging our established reputation as a leading provider of support automation solutions, incorporating self-healing, self-service and assisted service technologies. As managed service providers and corporate enterprises face the ever increasing complexities of supporting remote and mobile workforces, incorporating off-shored support organizations, supporting distributed home-based workers, and supporting new enterprise deployments of technologies such as VoIP and IPTV, many of our proven solutions and our established expertise from our experiences with digital service providers can be further leveraged. Expand Our Market Presence and Reach We believe that the digital service provider markets in the Americas, Europe, other key international markets such as China, India, and Korea, represent a growth opportunity for us. With our expanded product portfolio and our success in serving the DSL market, we believe there is an opportunity to increase penetration of our digital services products and related services across a broader market. We intend to further expand our sales, including direct and indirect channels, marketing and professional services efforts in our current international locations such as Belgium, France, Germany, India, Singapore and the United Kingdom, and expand to new locations and solution areas as markets require. A key element in our ability to expand our digital service presence on a global basis and our enterprise business in North America will be our ability to attract and work with key hardware, software and services companies who provide complementary products or services. Over the past several years, we have established relations with a number of leading managed service providers, local consulting and services companies and technology companies. We intend to focus more corporate-wide attention on establishing and growing successful partnerships that will enable us to reach new potential customers for our solutions. Maintain and Enhance Technology and Solutions Leadership We intend to continue to devote significant resources to technology development in order to introduce new solutions to provide self-healing and mass-healing capabilities, manage and resolve difficult technical service and support problems across a variety of devices, including personal computers, consumer premise equipment (CPE), and other devices that are key components in consumer and business environments that are increasingly reliant upon digital technologies of many kinds for information, computing, entertainment and management needs. As Internet access and digital media expand through increasing adoption of new technologies, we intend to continue to invest resources in developing technologies that enhance the personalization, automation and overall effectiveness of our product offerings to meet requirements of the next generation of hardware devices and related software. We intend to continue to foster an environment to obtain feedback from our customers through our customer advisory councils to provide us with valuable customer insights that we can integrate into future generations of our products. Products Our software products enable digital service providers to automate the installation, activation, delivery and support of various digital services and enterprises to further automate the ongoing support of hardware and software technologies used by end-users. Our software provides self-healing capabilities designed to recognize, diagnose and correct potential problems prior to their impact on the user either with or without user involvement. 6 Table of Contents If a user does require assistance, our products are designed to provide an integrated approach to escalating the problem to either self-service web-based portals or to technical support professionals where our products can help the professional deliver the appropriate resolution to the problem. Our products have been architected to function on a common software platform which is based on a set of patented technologies. We further leverage our technology to deliver specific solutions for our enterprises and digital service provider customers. Our product suites offer customers integrated solutions to address a broad range of endpoint management and IT service and support issues, whereas our component products enable customers to address specific problems or requirements. Digital Service Provider Suites and Products We provide an integrated set of solutions for automated installation, activation and ongoing service for three key constituencies: customers, customer service representatives (CSRs) and network operations. Built upon our Real-Time Service Management software platform, our solutions provide a unified, proactive approach for installation and service automation for triple play services for subscribers, field technicians and CSRs that can lower activation and ongoing service costs. SupportSoft SmartAccess. SmartAccess is designed to automatically determine if a subscriber’s computing system qualifies for a broadband connection and, if so, enables self-installation of high-speed access while providing a platform for the qualification, notification, installation, management and support of additional value-added services such as home networking and gaming. In addition, SmartAccess automates the front-end process to enable auto-provisioning of triple play services. SupportSoft ServiceGateway. ServiceGateway provides capabilities to automate large-scale consumer premise equipment (CPE) configuration activities, such as configuration and firmware upgrades across large portions of a broadband network. ServiceGateway also enables CSRs to take remote control of CPE devices, such as routers or gateways, to diagnose and solve problems on a “one-to-one” basis. SupportSoft ServiceVerify. ServiceVerify is designed to enable digital service providers to automatically verify the successful installation, activation and ongoing operations of VoIP, video over DSL (IPTV) and high-speed data services to homes and SMBs. ServiceVerify provides tools and service information to the installer or service technician and dispatcher as well as CSR. ServiceVerify can help technicians determine that the work has been performed correctly and the customer has access to all the services they ordered, before the technician leaves the job. ServiceVerify also provides CSRs tools designed to rapidly diagnose and resolve problems when a customer calls with a service-related problem. SupportSoft ServicePolicy. ServicePolicy enables service providers to automate the management associated with the monitoring of bandwidth usage and enforcement of subscriber bandwidth policies. Applications such as peer-to-peer networking, video streaming, and online game hosting can impact the availability of service provider networks. Service providers can use ServicePolicy to initiate specific actions to remedy the problem and automate notifying subscribers of permitted usage levels. Service Automation Suite—Video (SAS-V). Developed in conjunction with Scientific-Atlanta, Inc., Service Automation Suite — Video can improve the way broadband cable service providers deliver high quality video services to their customers and enhance the consumer experience for digital cable delivery, while enabling customer-facing personnel such as installers, dispatchers and CSRs to more effectively and quickly uncover and resolve customer issues and problems. Digital Service Provider and Enterprise Suites and Products Several of our products and suites are made available to both digital service provider customers and enterprise customers. 7 Table of Contents SupportSoft Client Technology (Subscriber Agent for Digital Service Providers, Repair Manager for Corporate Enterprises). The SupportSoft Client is a subscriber or employee desktop application that can make both self- and assisted service a more rewarding experience by providing the correct answer faster, or by connecting subscribers to the most appropriate assisted service resource. The SupportSoft Client can address many common complaints—such as “Email isn’t working” or “Web pages are slow”— by enabling end-users to understand and manage their own connection. For digital service providers, it offers automated connection management and CPE integration for problem diagnosis and resolution. For corporate enterprises, it also supports restoring VPN connectivity if lost. Additionally, should a subscriber need to call a CSR or help desk analyst, the SupportSoft Client provides permission-based tools for speeding the call by transferring system level information to the analyst instantaneously. SupportSoft Self-Service Suite. Self-Service Suite is designed to bring together knowledge automation capabilities and service request management capabilities to support end-users who require web-based access to answers to technology-related problems, fixes to technology problems or the ability to submit requests for assistance. The Self-Service Suite includes SupportSoft Knowledge Center and RequestAssist products described below. SupportSoft Intelligent Assistance Suite. Intelligent Assistance Suite is designed to provide technical support representatives with a set of integrated capabilities specifically designed to speed problem resolution when they are contacted by an end-user for help. The Intelligent Assistance Suite includes SupportSoft Knowledge Center, AnalystAssist, RemoteAssist, and LiveAssist products described below. SupportSoft Component Products In addition to our software suites, we provide several component software products that can be purchased individually or in combination with our other offerings for both enterprise and digital service provider customers. These products are generally available at lower price points than a comprehensive software suite and address specific needs for enterprises and digital service providers. Our component products are designed to work together easily. SupportSoft Knowledge Center. Knowledge Center is designed to automate the real-time creation, publishing and management of knowledge-based content for technical problem resolution. End-users benefit from Knowledge Center solutions through their ability to quickly access personalized, self-service answers online, including access to automated “one-click-fixes” in many cases. Service and support representatives benefit from Knowledge Center software through functionality that allows them to create a rich repository of knowledge to speed problem resolution, including access to both structured and unstructured data. SupportSoft RemoteAssist. RemoteAssist is designed to enable IT support analysts to remotely take control of a user’s Microsoft Windows computing system, with the user’s permission, to speed problem resolution. By remotely managing and controlling a device, a support analyst can diagnose problems in detail, including whether the problem is at the application, hardware or operating system level, determine the necessary action to resolve the problem and often times implement the resolution. No complex software installation or re-boot of the computer is required and a complete audit trail of all remote sessions is retained to expedite resolution should the problem be encountered again. SupportSoft RequestAssist. RequestAssist is designed to manage the complete lifecycle of request management, from identification through resolution. A Web-based interface lets end-users quickly create, submit or check the status of typical requests and incidents, which can range from IT support requests to password management issues. RequestAssist incorporates capabilities to support rules-based escalation of requests to the appropriate CSR, as well as automated notification of such escalations via the Web, a wireless device, email or a pager. 8 Table of Contents SupportSoft LiveAssist and AnalystAssist. LiveAssist and AnalystAssist are designed to provide high-volume call center organizations and IT help desks with tools to communicate with, and push answers via the Web to end-users. LiveAssist allows end-users and analysts to communicate directly to each other with a scalable, real-time chat solution enhanced by easy-to-use Web-push capabilities, and user friendly access to relevant content. AnalystAssist provides CSRs with a comprehensive set of tools to work with end-users to diagnose and resolve technical problems. Technology—Real-Time Service Management Software Platform Our technology is designed to enable our software suites and component products to be extended and easily adapt to, and integrate with, varying software environments. The Real-Time Service Management Platform is the foundation upon which all of our component products and suites are installed and provides a single point of integration for all of our suites and component products. The Real-Time Service Management Platform supports a high degree of scalability using industry standard web server infrastructure and supports datacenter practices such as load balancing, clustering and data partitioning. Our products are web-based and cross-platform and provide similar functionality on a variety of web servers, application servers, operating systems and databases. The architecture has been used in implementations that scale to several million endpoints. The Real-Time Service Management Platform includes common services that are shared by many of our products, allowing for faster product development, more flexible behavior and consistent usability as well as reporting. Common services include user and group management, user-based security, user interface navigation, database access, XML handling, reporting and integration. Sales and Marketing We have a worldwide sales organization to directly assist digital service providers, enterprises and managed service providers to understand the full value of our solutions. This sales team works with digital service providers on a global basis, and with large public and private sector enterprises and managed service providers in North America. Currently, we manage regional sales resources in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, France, Belgium, Germany, India, Singapore, and Spain. The marketing organization works closely with the sales organization to create programs which build awareness of our products, solutions and customer successes. The marketing organization uses a wide range of programs to build market awareness and develop requirements for current and future solutions. These include directed market research, relationships with industry analysts, direct mail and relationship marketing programs, business and trade press tours, and participation in industry-specific trade shows. The marketing organization also works with sales to ensure that they have the appropriate materials and demonstrations to support all phases of the sales process. Our sales and marketing organizations also work together to support a number of key partners, including technology partners, consulting and services partners, and resellers around the globe that help to extend our market reach and product delivery expertise. Representative digital service providers who have purchased our products and services to support their customers include: Belgacom, BellSouth, Bharti, Casema, Carphone Warehouse (Talk Talk), Charter, Comcast, Cox, Essent Kabelcom, KPN, Metrocast Cablevision, Net Lynk, Portugal Telecom, TDC Kabel, TDC Solutions, TDC Switzerland, TeliaSonera, Time Warner Cable, Tiscali, Qwest, UPC Broadband, Verizon, and other service providers worldwide. Representative enterprises that have licensed SupportSoft software for IT operations and customer support requirements include: 3M, ADP, Assurant, Bank of America, British Telecommunications, EGL Eagle Global Logistics, Fidelity, Horry Telephone Cooperative, Kimberly-Clark, Lockheed Martin, 9 Table of Contents Northrop Grumman, Procter & Gamble, Sony Electronics, Symantec and Thomson Financial. Representative managed service providers that have purchased our products to provide outsourced services to enterprises include: ACS, Capgemini UK, CGI, CSC, CompuCom, EDS, and IBM. Partners and Alliances We establish software and hardware alliances and partnering relationships to ensure that our products can be integrated with the software and hardware technology infrastructure of our customers. We engage in product alliances that we believe can enhance our solutions or can assist customers in gaining more return on their investment from our software. We work closely with other software and solutions providers to enhance our solutions, accelerate the use of our solutions in key markets, or increase the value our customers receive from our products. We work with a number of companies focused on supporting various digital services. For example, for network-based services such as high speed data and VoIP, we work with firms such as C-Cor and Brix Networks For digital video, we have an alliance with Scientific-Atlanta, Inc. We also have established an interoperability laboratory to test standards developed by the DSL Forum for consumer premise equipment devices, and work closely with leading CPE manufacturers. We also work closely with other complementary software companies including those marketing call tracking systems, password and identity management systems, and patch database companies, such as Shavlik. We have formed relationships with managed service providers that represent a customer base as well as a delivery option for our products. We have developed relationships with managed service providers, including CGI, CompuCom Systems, Inc., Computer Sciences Corporation, EDS, and IBM Global Services to address growing customer demand for outsourced IT management services and support automation solutions. Managed service providers seek ways to provide new value and increase service levels to current and prospective customers. Our software can help managed service providers differentiate their IT solutions by improving their ability to meet service level agreements and reducing their cost structure to provide their services. In addition, managed service providers enable us to reach a broader segment of customers that utilize the services of an outsourcer for IT service delivery. Global Services Our Global Services organization provides end-to-end professional service offerings to our customers ranging from project planning and management, architectural design, implementation, deployment and ongoing technical support. Our services professionals are highly qualified through experience to help our customers drive tangible business results through effective implementation, adoption and usage of our software solutions. Our Global Services group provides solutions for our customers that can be used across all or parts of their organizations. Our capabilities are principally divided into five core areas with the goal to guide the customer through a successful deployment: • Project Planning & Management. Builds comprehensive project plans in tight coordination with customers and partners with a goal of ensuring budget, timeline and quality objectives are achieved. • Design & Implementation. Provides architectural design, transformation and product integration and deployment services. • Education. Trains customers and those parties with whom we have alliances in the design, implementation and use of our products. • Technical Support. Responds to design, feature, and implementation and deployment support questions. This group provides ongoing assistance to optimize customer communication and feedback for technology deployment, including using our own software to provide an Internet support portal, titled ExpertExchange, as well as regular user group forums by which customers can assist each other in 10 Table of Contents discussing product issues and opportunities. Under our standard maintenance contracts, our customers receive generally available patches, enhancements and updates to the products they have purchased. • Strategic Services. Educates customers on “best practices” for supporting and servicing users and encouraging users to move from traditional support processes, such as a phone call to the help desk, to an automated approach, in order to accelerate the customer’s return on investment. Research and Development We devote a substantial portion of our resources to developing new and enhanced versions of our support and service automation software, conducting product testing and quality assurance testing and improving our core technologies. Fundamental to our research and development strategy are rapid product development cycles, continuous improvement and customer feedback. We believe that customers serve as an extension of our research and development process by providing us with valuable feedback from their hands-on usage to assist with our product improvements, implementation services and new market opportunities and strategy. We have created customer advisory councils with representatives from our customers to formalize this input. Research and development expense was $11.2 million in 2005, $9.7 million in 2004 and $9.2 million in 2003. Intellectual Property Patents As of December 31, 2005, we had seven patents and one patent application allowed and expected to issue in the United States in the general areas of automated discovery of dynamic configurations, our SmartIssue technology and our software vault technology. We also hold patents in China, Singapore and Israel and have a number of patent applications pending in other foreign jurisdictions. We may or may not seek additional patents in the future. We do not know if our patent applications or any future patent application will result in a patent being issued with the scope of the claims we seek, if at all. Also, we do not know whether any patents we have or may receive will be challenged or invalidated. It is difficult to monitor unauthorized use of technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States, and our competitors may develop technology that competes with ours but nevertheless does not infringe our intellectual property rights. Trademarks Our trademarks and service marks include SupportSoft and related designs, Support.com and related designs, the “support man” logo, DNA, DNA Probe, HomeNet, LiveAssist, Nexus, RapidReset, Resolution Suite, SmartAccess, SmartIssue, SmartResult, SupportAction and SupportTrigger. We have claim common law trademark rights for other marks. Protection of Intellectual Property We rely on a combination of copyright, trade secret, trademark and contractual protection to establish and protect our proprietary rights that are not protected by patent. We also enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and consultants involved in product development. We routinely require our employees, customers and potential business partners to enter into confidentiality agreements before we will disclose any sensitive aspects of our business. Also, we require employees to agree to assign and surrender to us any proprietary information, inventions or other intellectual property they generate or come to possess while employed by us. These precautions may not prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property. 11 Table of Contents Competition We compete in markets that are highly competitive, subject to rapid change and significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants. Although we do not believe there is one principal competitor in the market for all aspects of our Real-Time service Management solutions for both the enterprise and digital service provider markets, we do compete with a number of vendors who may offer products or services with features that compete with specific elements of our suite solutions or with our component products. Software companies we encounter in competitive situations include a broad range of publicly-traded and privately-held companies. In our enterprise business, our principal competition comes from public companies such as ATG, BMC, Computer Associates International, Inc., eGain, Hewlett Packard, Kana, Knova and RightNow. In our digital service provider business, we compete with Motive, Inc. for installation, activation and various service automation capabilities and various hardware vendors such as 2Wire, Alcatel and Siemens for remote device management. In addition, we expect that internally developed applications will continue to be a significant source of competition in the foreseeable future. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our market include the following: • Breadth and depth of product functionality; • Demonstrated customer success and return-on-investment; • Scalability of platform and integrated architecture; • Quality and performance and reputation of solutions; • Pricing; • Implementation services and support; and • Product innovation. We believe that we presently compete favorably with respect to each of these factors. However, the markets for our products are still rapidly evolving, and we may not be able to compete successfully against current and potential competitors. Our ability to expand our business will depend on our ability to maintain our technological advantage, introduce timely enhanced products to meet the growing support needs, deliver on-going value to our customers and scale our business. Employees As of December 31, 2005, we had 246 full-time employees. None of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. We believe our relations with our employees are good. Executive Officers Our executive officers and their ages as of March 10, 2006, are: Name Age Position Radha R. Basu 55 Chief Executive Officer, President and Chairman of the Board Ken Owyang 42 Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President of Finance and Administration Cadir B. Lee 34 Senior Vice President of Products and Technology and Chief Technology Officer Chris Grejtak 56 Senior Vice President, Marketing and Corporate Development, Chief Marketing Officer John Van Siclen 49 Senior Vice President of Worldwide Field Operations 12 Table of Contents Radha R. Basu. Ms. Basu has served as President, Chief Executive Officer and as a director of SupportSoft since July 1999 and became Chairman of the Board of Directors in January 2001. Ms. Basu announced her intentions to retire from the Company, but will continue in her position until a suitable successor is in place and remain a part-time employee on an as-needed basis to help the successor’s transition for a period of one year. Ms. Basu worked at Hewlett-Packard Company, a computing and imaging solutions provider company, from November 1978 to January 1999, and held various general management positions, most recently the general manager of the electronic business software organization. Ms. Basu also serves as a director of Seec, Inc., an eBusiness solutions company. Ms. Basu holds a B.S. in engineering from the University of Madras, a masters degree in electrical engineering and computer science from the University of Southern California and is a graduate of the Stanford University executive management program. Ken Owyang. Mr. Owyang was appointed to the position of Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President of Finance and Administration in March 2006. Mr. Owyang has served as Interim Chief Financial Officer since January 2006, and as Vice President of Finance for SupportSoft since November 2004. Prior to November, 2004, Mr. Owyang provided consulting services to SupportSoft since April 2004. From May 2003 until April 2004, he was an independent financial consultant to private and public companies. From November 1997 until February 2002, Mr. Owyang was employed by Marimba, Inc, an enterprise software company, initially as Controller and then Chief Financial Officer beginning in June 2000. Mr. Owyang holds a B.A. in Business Administration and Accounting from San Francisco State University. Cadir B. Lee. Mr. Lee co-founded SupportSoft. He has served as Vice President of Engineering since October 2004 and as the Chief Software Officer of SupportSoft since its incorporation in December 1997. From 1995 to 1997, Mr. Lee served as a software consultant to Hewlett-Packard Company, a computing and imaging solutions provider company. Mr. Lee holds a B.S. in biological sciences and a B.A. in music from Stanford University. Chris Grejtak. Mr. Grejtak has served as the Senior Vice President of Products and Marketing and Chief Marketing Officer of SupportSoft since May 2003. From August 2002 to May 2003, Mr. Grejtak served as the Senior Vice President of worldwide marketing for Portal Software, Inc., a billing solutions company. From February 2001 to June 2002, Mr. Grejtak served as Chief Marketing Officer of Broadvision, an enterprise portal software company. From December 1999 to December 2000, Mr. Grejtak served as the Chief Executive Officer of Viquity Corporation, a business-to-business infrastructure company. From December 1996 to December 1999, Mr. Grejtak served as the Executive Vice President of Marketing at Brio Technology, an enterprise business intelligence company. Mr. Grejtak holds a B.A. in sociology from Middlebury College. John Van Siclen. Mr. Van Siclen has served as the Senior Vice President of Worldwide Field Operations of SupportSoft since August 2003. Mr. Van Siclen announced his intention to separate from the Company, effective March 31, 2006. Prior to joining SupportSoft, from January 2002 to April 2003, Mr. Van Siclen served as President, Chief Executive Officer and director of Interwoven, Inc., a content management software company. From May 2001 to January 2002, he served as the Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Interwoven, and from December 1999 to April 2001, he served as Interwoven’s Vice President of Corporate and Business Development. Prior to joining Interwoven, Mr. Van Siclen served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Perspecta, Inc., an Internet software company, from February 1996 to November 1999. Perspecta was acquired by Excite@Home in October 1999. Mr. Van Siclen holds a B.A. in history from Princeton University. SEC Filings and Other Available Information We were incorporated in Delaware in December 1997. We file reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including without limitation annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at (202) 551-8090. In addition, we are an electronic filer. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information 13 Table of Contents statements, and other information regarding issuers, including us, that file electronically with the SEC at the website address located at http://www.sec.gov. Our telephone number is 650-556-9440 and our website address is http://www.supportsoft.com. The information contained in our website does not form any part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. However, we make available free of charge through our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file this material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. In addition, we also make available on http://www.supportsoft.com/investors our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct for Employees, Officers and Directors. This Code is also available in print without charge to any person who requests it by writing to: SupportSoft, Inc. Investor Relations 575 Broadway Redwood City, CA 94063 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. In addition to the other information contained in this report, you should consider the following risk factors before investing in our securities. Our quarterly results may fluctuate, which may cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly revenue and operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter. As a result, we believe that quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year comparisons of our revenue and operating results are not necessarily meaningful, and that these comparisons may not be accurate indicators of future performance. Several factors that have contributed or may in the future contribute to fluctuations in our operating results include: • demand for our real-time service management software; • size and timing of customer orders and our ability to receive payment and recognize revenue in a given quarter; • our reliance on a small number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenue; • the price and mix of products and services we or our competitors offer; • our ability to attract and retain customers; • the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to expansion of our business, infrastructure and marketing activities; • the exercise of judgment by our management in making accounting decisions in accordance with our accounting policies, such as when to recognize certain tax assets and the impairment of goodwill or identifiable intangible assets; and • general economic conditions and their effect on our operations. Historically, we licensed a significant portion of our software on a term basis in which revenue was recognized ratably over the length of the agreement with the customer. Recently, however, we typically license our software on a perpetual basis in which we recognize the license revenue upfront, assuming all criteria for revenue recognition have been met. As we shifted to a perpetual licensing model, we have received less ratable revenue and have therefore become more dependent on a few customer contracts with upfront license revenue for 14 Table of Contents a substantial portion of our revenue in any one quarter. In addition, a significant portion of our total revenue each quarter come from a number of orders received in the last month of a quarter. If we fail to close orders expected to be completed toward the end of a quarter, particularly if these orders are for perpetual licenses with immediate revenue, or if there is any cancellation of or delay in the closing of orders, particularly any large customer orders, our quarterly results would suffer. Because a small number of customers have historically accounted for and may in future periods account for substantial portions of our revenue, our revenue could decline because of delays of customer orders. A small number of customers have historically accounted for, and may in future periods account for, substantial portions of our revenue. For the quarter ended December 31, 2005, two customers accounted for 20% and 15% of our total revenue for the quarter. Although there were no customers that accounted for 10% or more of our total annual revenue in 2005, for the year ended December 31, 2004, two customers accounted for 13% and 10% of our total annual revenue. Because a small number of customers are likely to continue to account for a significant portion of our revenue in any given quarter, our revenue could decline because of the loss or delay of a single customer order. Additionally, we may not obtain new customers. The failure to obtain significant new customers, particularly customers that purchase perpetual licenses with upfront payments, the loss or delay of significant customer orders and the failure of existing customers to pay ongoing fees when due would harm our operating results. Our inability to meet future financial performance targets that we announce or that are published by research analysts could cause the price of our common stock to decline. From time to time, we provide guidance related to our future financial performance. In addition, financial analysts publish their own expectations of our future financial performance. Because our quarterly revenue and our operating results fluctuate, future financial performance is difficult to predict. In early 2004 and 2005, we provided guidance related to our expected annual and quarterly performance. Our actual financial results in the third quarter of 2004 and 2005 fell short of our guidance. As a result, we then needed to reduce our annual guidance for those years. Future negative adjustments of our guidance or the failure to meet our guidance or those expectations of research analysts could likely cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Management’s ability to accurately predict performance is affected in large part by the increasing number of perpetual licenses that we typically enter into in a quarterly period. As a result, a significant portion of our total revenue is dependant upon the closing of new large customer orders. In addition, our guidance is based in part upon the expectation of new product sales with which we have a limited history and as a result it is difficult to evaluate our future revenue from these products. In the event we fail to close orders expected or forecasted to be completed, our results will not meet our guidance or the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which would likely cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We expect to lose the services of two of our key personnel and recruiting and integrating new management may affect our ability to achieve our business goals. Our success depends on the skills, experience and performance of our senior management, engineering, sales, marketing and other key personnel. The loss of the services of any of our senior management or other key personnel could harm the market’s perception of our business and our ability to achieve our business goals. We recently announced that Radha R. Basu has expressed her intention to retire as our President and Chief Executive Officer, although she will continue in her position until a suitable successor is in place and remain a part-time employee on an as-needed basis to help the successor’s transition for a period of one year. In addition, John Van Siclen, our Senior Vice President of Worldwide Field Operations, recently announced that he will depart from SupportSoft effective March 31, 2006. The efforts in recruiting and integrating new management may divert attention from other business concerns and disrupt our ongoing business, especially in the short term until successors are appointed. In addition, Ken Owyang was only recently appointed Chief Financial Officer, 15 Table of Contents transitioning from his role as our Vice President of Finance which he has held since 2004. We have also recently initiated reductions in our workforce. Reductions in our workforce as well as changes in senior management could make it difficult to motivate and retain remaining key employees or attract new employees, and provide distractions affecting our ability to manage our business. We were not profitable for the third quarter of 2005 and may not continue to be profitable. Although we have been profitable on an annual basis since 2003, we were not profitable for the third quarter of 2005. We reached profitability again in the fourth quarter of 2005, but our expenditures could once again exceed our revenues in future periods, thus preventing us from achieving or maintaining profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. To achieve and maintain profitability, we will need to generate and sustain substantially higher revenues while maintaining reasonable cost and expense levels. If we fail to achieve or maintain profitability, the market price of our common stock will likely decline. We may not achieve profitability if our revenues do not increase or if they increase more slowly than we expect. In addition, our operating expenses are largely fixed and any shortfall in anticipated revenues in any given period could harm our results. Our product innovations may not achieve the market penetration necessary for us to expand our market share. If we fail to develop enhanced versions of our real-time service management software in a timely manner or to provide products and services that achieve rapid and broad market acceptance, we may not maintain or expand our market share. We may fail to identify new product and service opportunities for our current market or new markets that we enter into in the future. In addition, our existing products may become obsolete if we fail to introduce new products or product enhancements that meet new customer demands, support new standards or integrate with new or upgraded versions of packaged applications. We have limited control over factors that affect market acceptance of our product and services, including: • the willingness of enterprises, including management service providers, to transition to real-time service management solutions; and • acceptance of competitors’ solutions or other similar technologies. If the growth of demand for triple play services or multi-play services by subscribers of digital services does not continue, our ability to increase our revenue could suffer. Our ability to increase our revenue will depend on increased demand for digital services. If this demand does not grow as rapidly or to the extent we anticipate, our business could suffer. The growth of digital services is uncertain and will depend in particular upon the availability, at a reasonable price, of such digital services, the building of infrastructure to support such services, the availability of competitive products, and the reliability of such services. We are becoming increasingly more dependent upon our international operations and if our revenue from this effort does not exceed the expense of establishing and maintaining international operations, our business could suffer. We are becoming increasingly more dependent upon our international operations including the sales and distribution of our products and services and our research and development resources in India and Canada. We have limited experience in international operations and may not be able to compete effectively in international markets or effectively manage our operations in various countries. If we do not generate enough revenue from international operations to offset the expense of these operations, our business and our ability to increase revenue and enhance our operating results could suffer. Risks we face in conducting business internationally include: • costs of staffing and managing international operations; • differing technology standards and legal considerations; 16 Table of Contents • longer sales cycles; • dependence on local vendors and consultants; • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations, including the difficulty in managing a geographically dispersed workforce in compliance with diverse local laws and customs and difficulty in motivating and retaining qualified individuals; • potential adverse tax consequences; • changes in currency exchange rates and controls; • difficulties in maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting as a result of a geographically-dispersed workforce and customers; • longer collection cycles for accounts receivable; and • the effects of external events such as terrorist acts and any related conflicts or similar events worldwide. If we do not expand our professional services organization, especially internationally, our customers may become dissatisfied and our operating results could suffer. Also, as we expand our professional services organization, it may not operate in a profitable manner. Clients that license our software typically engage our professional services organization to assist with installation and implementation of our software and related consulting services. Revenue from professional services has increased from 2004 to 2005 by 29% and represented a substantial portion of our total revenue. We plan to further increase the number of services personnel, especially internationally, to meet customer needs. We may not be able to recruit the services personnel we need or retain our current services personnel because competition for qualified services personnel is intense. New services personnel will require training and education and take time to reach full productivity. In addition, we cannot be certain that our professional services business will operate in a profitable manner. We have generally billed our customers for professional services on a time and material basis using an agreed upon daily rate. However, increasingly customers have requested various contract structures. If unanticipated factors in a project are encountered and the contract structure prevents us from billing additional amounts, the profitably of our professional services business would suffer. Our failure to establish and expand third-party alliances would harm our ability to sell our real-time service management software. We have several alliances with third parties that are important to our business. Our existing relationships include those with software and hardware vendors, and relationships with companies who provide outsourced support and service capabilities to enterprise customers. If these relationships fail, we may have to devote substantially more resources to the sales and marketing of our products and services than we would otherwise, and our efforts may not be as effective. For example, companies that provide outsourced support and services often have extensive relationships with our existing and potential customers and significant input in the purchase decisions of these customers. In addition, we intend to establish relationships with third party resellers and other sales partners as we expand into geographic regions such as Europe and Asia. Our failure to maintain existing relationships, or to establish new relationships with key third parties, could significantly harm our ability to sell our products and services. Our exposure to the credit risks of our customers and resellers may make it difficult to collect receivables and could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Industry and economic conditions have weakened the financial position of some of our customers and the cable and telecommunications industries, from which we derive a substantial portion of our total revenue, have 17 Table of Contents traditionally been highly leveraged businesses. To sell to some of these customers, we may be required to take risks of uncollectible accounts. We may be exposed to similar risks relating to third party resellers and other sales partners, as we intend to increasingly utilize such parties as we expand into new geographic regions. Additionally, as we have expanded our business internationally we have experienced longer payment terms and collection cycles from customers outside the United States. While we monitor these situations carefully and attempt to take appropriate measures to protect ourselves, it is possible that we may have to write down or write off doubtful accounts. Such write-downs or write-offs would negatively affect our operating results for the period in which they occur, and, if large, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Our products depend on and work with products containing complex software and if our products fail to perform properly due to errors in the software, we may need to devote resources to correct the errors or compensate for losses from these errors and our reputation could be harmed. Our products depend on complex software, both internally developed and licensed from third parties. Also, our customers may use our products with other companies’ products which also contain complex software. Complex software often contains errors and may not perform properly. These errors could result in: • delays in product shipments; • unexpected expenses and diversion of resources to identify the source of errors or to correct errors, whether or not the error is later determined to be related to our software; • damage to our reputation; • lost sales; • contractual penalties, demands, claims and litigation and related defense costs; and • warranty claims. If our products fail to perform properly due to errors, bugs or similar problems in the software, we could be required to devote valuable resources to correct the errors or compensate for losses from these errors. Furthermore, if our products are found to contain errors or bugs, whether resulting from internally developed or third-party licensed software, our reputation with our customer base could be harmed and our business could suffer. Our reported results of operations will be materially and adversely affected by our adoption of SFAS 123R. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment (SFAS 123R), which will be effective in our first quarter of 2006, will result in our recognition of substantial compensation expense relating to our employee stock options and employee stock purchase plans. Historically, we generally have not recognized in our statement of income any compensation expense related to stock option grants we issue under our stock option plans or the discounts we provide under our employee stock purchase plans. Under the new rules, we will be required to adopt a fair value-based method for measuring the compensation expense related to employee stock awards, which will lead to substantial additional compensation expense and will have a material adverse effect on our reported results of operations. Our sales cycle is lengthy and if revenue forecasted for a particular quarter is not realized in that quarter, significant expenses incurred may not be offset by corresponding revenues. Our sales cycle for our software typically ranges from three to nine months or more and may vary substantially from customer to customer. The purchase of our products and services generally involves a significant commitment of capital and other resources by a customer. This commitment often requires significant 18 Table of Contents technical review, assessment of competitive products and approval at a number of management levels within a customer’s organization. In addition, in the wake of Sarbanes-Oxley, companies have enhanced their approval processes making sales more difficult or protracted. While our customers are evaluating our products and services, we may incur substantial sales and marketing expenses and spend significant management effort to complete these sales. Any delay in completing sales in a particular quarter or the failure to complete a sale after expending resources during the sales cycle could cause our operating results to suffer. We must achieve broad adoption and acceptance of our real-time service management products and services or we will not increase our market share or expand our business. We must achieve broad market acceptance and adoption of our products and services or our business and operating results will suffer. Specifically, we must encourage our customers to transition from using traditional or competitive support and service methods to our support and service automation solutions. To accomplish this, we must: • continually improve the performance, features and reliability of our products and services to address changing industry standards and customer needs; and • develop integration with other support-related technologies. If we fail to manage our business effectively, then our infrastructure, management and resources might be strained. As we expand our business operations, this will likely place a significant strain on our resources especially in light of the recent reduction in our workforce. With less personnel, or in the event we are unable to retain the required personnel, we may be unable to meet our business objectives. In addition, if we experience significant and rapid growth or a change in the complexity of our operations, including through acquisitions of businesses or technologies, we may need to expand and otherwise improve our internal systems, including our internal control over financial reporting, disclosure controls and procedures, management information systems, customer relationship and support systems, and other operating and administrative systems and controls. This effort may cause us to make significant capital expenditures or incur significant expenses, and divert the attention of management, sales, support and finance personnel from our business operations, which may adversely affect our financial performance in one or more quarters. Moreover, growth in the future will result in increased responsibilities of management personnel. Managing growth will require substantial resources that we may not have or otherwise be able to obtain. If we are unable to maintain our disclosure controls and procedures, including our internal control over financial reporting, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be adversely affected. We have evaluated our “disclosure controls and procedures” as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as well as our internal control over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our independent registered public accounting firm has performed a similar evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting. Effective controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our operating results could be harmed. As of December 31, 2005, we concluded that our internal control over financial reporting were effective, as further described below in Item 9A, Controls and Procedures. However, in 2004 we had material weaknesses in our internal controls and we cannot be certain that we will continue to have adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. If weaknesses are identified, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be adversely affected. In addition, if we cannot maintain internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. 19 Table of Contents If our existing customers do not renew maintenance services or purchase additional products, our operating results could suffer. Historically, we have derived, and expect to continue to derive, a significant portion of our total revenue from existing customers who purchase additional products or renew maintenance services. Our customers may not renew maintenance services or purchase additional products and may not expand their use of our products. In addition, as we introduce new products, our current customers may not require or desire the functionality of our new products and may not ultimately purchase these products. If our customers do not renew maintenance services or do not purchase additional products, our revenue levels and operating results could suffer. Our software may not operate with the hardware and software platforms that are used by our customers now or in the future, and as a result our business and operating results may suffer. We currently serve a customer base with a wide variety of constantly changing hardware, packaged software applications and networking platforms. If we fail to release versions of our software that are compatible with operating systems, software applications or hardware devices used by our customers, our business and operating results would suffer. Our future success also depends on: • the continuing ability of our products to inter-operate with multiple platforms and packaged applications used by our customer base; and • our management of software being developed by third parties for our customers or for use with our products. We may engage in investments or acquisitions or other strategic matters that could divert management attention and prove difficult to integrate with our business and technology. We may engage in acquisitions of other companies, products or technologies or in other strategic initiatives. If we fail to integrate successfully any future acquisitions, or the technologies associated with such acquisitions, into our company, or if we fail to consummate various strategic initiatives, the revenue and operating results of the combined company could decline. The process of integrating businesses, technologies, services or products may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Acquisitions involve a number of other potential risks to our business, including the following: • potential adverse effects on our operating results, including unanticipated costs and liabilities, unforeseen accounting charges or fluctuations resulting from failure to accurately forecast the financial impact of an acquisition; • failure to integrate products or technologies with our existing products, technologies and business model; • failure to integrate management information systems, personnel, research and development and marketing, sales and support operations; • potential loss of key employees; • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns and disruption of our ongoing business; • difficulty in maintaining controls and procedures; • potential loss of customers; • uncertainty on the part of our existing customers about our ability to operate on a combined basis; • failure to realize the potential financial or strategic benefits of the acquisition; and • failure to successfully further develop the combined technology, resulting in the impairment of amounts recorded as goodwill or other intangible assets. 20 Table of Contents In addition, our capital resources may be insufficient to acquire businesses, technology, services or products and we may require additional financing. This financing may not be available in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us and may be dilutive to existing stockholders. We rely on third-party technologies and our inability to use or integrate third-party technologies could delay product or service development. We intend to continue to license technologies from third parties, including applications used in our research and development activities and technologies such as third-party search engine technology, which are integrated into our products and services. Our inability to obtain or integrate any of these technologies with our own products could delay product and service development until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed and integrated. These technologies may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We may fail to successfully integrate any licensed technology into our products or services, which would harm our business and operating results. Third-party licenses also expose us to increased risks that include: • risks of product malfunction after new technology is integrated; • the diversion of resources from the development of our own proprietary technology; and • our inability to generate revenue from new technology sufficient to offset associated acquisition and maintenance costs. We must compete successfully in the real-time service management market or we will lose market share and our business will suffer. We compete in markets that are highly competitive, subject to rapid change and significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants. We compete with a number of companies in the market for automated delivery of support and service automation and other vendors who may offer products or services with features that compete with specific elements of our software products. In addition, our customers and potential customers have developed or may develop internally real-time service management software systems. We expect that internally developed applications will continue to be a principal source of competition in the foreseeable future. The markets for our products are still rapidly evolving, and we may not be able to compete successfully against current and potential competitors. Our ability to expand our business will depend on our ability to maintain our technological advantage, introduce timely enhanced products to meet the growing support needs, deliver on-going value to our customers and scale our business. Our potential competitors may have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical and other resources or greater name recognition than we do. Competition in our markets could reduce our market share or require us to reduce the price of products and services, which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. We may need additional capital and if funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may not be able to hire and retain employees, fund our expansion or compete effectively. We believe that our existing capital resources will enable us to maintain our operations for at least the next 12 months. However, if our capital requirements vary materially from those currently planned, we may require additional financing sooner than anticipated. This financing may not be available in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us and may be dilutive to existing stockholders. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, our ability to hire, train or retain employees, fund our expansion, take advantage of business opportunities, develop or enhance services or products or respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. 21 Table of Contents Our system security is important to our customers and we may need to spend significant resources to protect against or correct problems caused by security breaches. A fundamental requirement for online communications, transactions and support is the secure transmission of confidential information. Third parties may attempt to breach our security or that of our customers. We may be liable to our customers for any breach in security and any breach could harm our business and reputation. Also, computers are vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, which could lead to interruptions, delays or loss of data. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to further protect against security breaches or to correct problems caused by any breach. Failure to resolve pending securities claims and other lawsuits may lead to continued costs and expenses and divert management’s attention from our business, which could cause our revenues and our stock price to decline. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against public companies after periods of volatility in the market price of securities. The market price of our common stock has been subject to significant fluctuations and may continue to fluctuate or decline. In addition, the anti-takeover provisions we have adopted in the past, such as prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, or may adopt in the future may be perceived negatively by the market causing a decline in our stock price or litigation against us. Securities class action lawsuits were filed against us in November 2001 and again in December 2004. In addition, a derivative shareholder lawsuit was filed against us in December 2005. Should these lawsuits linger for a long period of time, whether ultimately resolved in our favor or not, or further lawsuits be filed against us, coverage limits of our insurance or our ability to pay such amounts may not be adequate to cover the fees and expenses and any ultimate resolution associated with such litigation. The size of these payments, if any, individually or in the aggregate, could seriously impair our cash reserves and financial condition. The continued defense of these lawsuits also could result in continued diversion of our management’s time and attention away from business operations, which could cause our financial results to decline. A failure to resolve definitively current or future material litigation in which we are involved or in which we may become involved in the future, regardless of the merits of the respective cases, could also cast doubt as to our prospects in the eyes of customers, potential customers and investors, which could cause our revenues and stock price to decline. Privacy concerns and laws or other domestic or foreign regulations may reduce the effectiveness of our solution or harm our reputation and cause us to lose customers. Our software contains features which allow our customers to control, monitor or collect information from computers running the software. Federal, state and foreign government bodies and agencies, however, have adopted or are considering adopting laws and regulations regarding the collection, use and disclosure of personal information obtained from consumers and individuals. The costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, such laws and regulations that are applicable to the businesses of our customers may limit the use and adoption of our solutions and reduce overall demand for it. Furthermore, privacy concerns may cause our customers’ customers to resist providing the data necessary to allow our customers to use our solutions effectively. Even the perception of privacy concerns, whether or not valid, may inhibit adoption of our solutions. In addition, we may face claims about invasion of privacy or inappropriate disclosure, use or loss of this information. Any imposition of liability could harm our reputation, cause us to lose customers and cause our operating results to suffer. Any system failure that causes an interruption in our customers’ ability to use our products or services or a decrease in their performance could harm our relationships with our customers and result in reduced revenue. Our software is vulnerable to damage or interruption from computer viruses, human error, natural disasters, electricity grid failures and intentional acts of vandalism and similar events. These problems could interrupt our customers’ ability to use our real-time service management products or services, which could harm our reputation and cause us to lose customers and revenue. 22 Table of Contents We may not obtain sufficient patent protection, which could harm our competitive position, increase our expenses and harm our business. Our success and ability to compete depend to a significant degree upon the protection of our software and other proprietary technology. It is possible that: • our pending patent applications may not be issued; • competitors may independently develop similar technologies or design around any of our patents; • patents issued to us may not be broad enough to protect our proprietary rights; and • our issued patents could be successfully challenged. We rely upon patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets to protect our proprietary rights and if these rights are not sufficiently protected, it could harm our ability to compete and to generate revenue. We rely on a combination of laws, such as patents, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, and contractual restrictions, such as confidentiality agreements and licenses, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. Our ability to compete and grow our business could suffer if these rights are not adequately protected. Our proprietary rights may not be adequately protected because: • laws and contractual restrictions may not adequately prevent misappropriation of our technologies or deter others from developing similar technologies; and • policing unauthorized use of our products and trademarks is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and we may be unable to determine the existence or extent of this unauthorized use. Also, the laws of other countries in which we market our products may offer little or no protection of our proprietary technologies. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technologies could enable third parties to benefit from our technologies without paying us for them, which would harm our competitive position and market share. We may face intellectual property infringement claims that could be costly to defend and result in our loss of significant rights. Other parties may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us or our customers and our products may infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties. Intellectual property litigation is expensive and time-consuming and could divert management’s attention from our business. If there is a successful claim of infringement, we may be required to develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or license agreements which may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Our failure to develop non-infringing technologies or license the proprietary rights on a timely basis would harm our business. We have recorded long-lived assets, and our results of operations would be adversely affected if their value becomes impaired. Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets were recorded as a result of our acquisition of substantially all of the assets of Core Networks Incorporated on September 2, 2004. We assess the impairment of goodwill annually or more often if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We assess the impairment of acquired product rights and other identifiable intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that its carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss would be recognized when the sum of the discounted future net cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset and its eventual disposition is less than its carrying amount. Such impairment loss would be measured as the difference between the carrying amount of the asset and its fair value. Material differences may result in write-downs of net long-lived and intangible assets, which would cause our operating results to suffer. 23 Table of Contents If securities analysts stop publishing research or reports about us or our business or if they downgrade our stock, the price of our stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. We do not control these analysts. If one or more of the analysts who currently cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price would likely decline rapidly. Furthermore, if one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Risks Related To Our Industry We may experience a decrease in market demand due to uncertain economic conditions in the United States and in international markets, which has been further exacerbated by the concerns of terrorism, war and social and political instability. The United States and international economies have recently experienced a period of slow economic growth. A sustained economic recovery is uncertain. In addition, the terrorists attacks in the United States and turmoil in the Middle East have increased the uncertainty in the United States economy and may further exacerbate the decline in economic conditions, both domestically and internationally. Terrorist acts and similar events, or war in general, could contribute further to a slowdown of the market demand for goods and services, including real-time service management solutions. If the economy declines as a result of economic, political and social turmoil, or if there are further terrorist attacks in the United States or elsewhere, we may experience decreases in the demand for our products and services, which may harm our operating results. Governmental regulation and legal changes could impair the growth of the Internet and decrease demand for our products or increase our cost of doing business. The laws and regulations that govern our business and the business of our customers can change rapidly. Any change in laws and regulations could impair the growth of the Internet and could reduce demand for our products, subject us to liability or increase our cost of doing business. The United States government and the governments of states and foreign countries have attempted to regulate activities on the Internet and the distribution of software. Also, in 1998, the Internet Freedom Act was enacted into law, which imposed a three-year moratorium on state and local taxes on Internet-based transactions. Congress has extended this moratorium on several occasions, including the most recently approved extension to the moratorium until November 1, 2007. Failure to renew this moratorium once again or to pass a bill that would permanently prohibit state and local taxes on Internet-based transactions would allow states to impose taxes on Internet-based commerce. This might harm our business directly and indirectly by harming the businesses of our customers, potential customers and the parties to our technology relationships. The applicability to the Internet of existing laws is uncertain and may take years to resolve. Evolving areas of law that are relevant to our business include privacy laws, intellectual property laws, proposed encryption laws, content regulation and sales and use tax laws and regulations. We may be required to change our business practices if there are changes in accounting regulations and related interpretations and policies. Accounting standards groups and regulators are actively re-examining various accounting policies, guidelines and interpretations related to revenue recognition, expensing stock options, income taxes, investments in equity securities, facilities consolidation, accounting for acquisitions, allowance for doubtful accounts and other financial reporting matters. These standards groups and regulators could promulgate interpretations and guidance that could result in material and potentially adverse changes to our business practices and accounting policies. 24 Table of Contents New rules and regulations for public companies have increased and may continue to increase our administrative costs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Nasdaq National Market, have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. These rules and regulations are increasing our legal and financial compliance costs, and making some activities more time-consuming and costly. These rules and regulations make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. These new rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and qualified executive officers. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 