ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors This report contains forward-looking statements regarding our business and expected future performance as well as assumptions underlying or relating to such statements of expectation, all of which are "forward looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We are subject to many risks and uncertainties that may materially affect our business and future performance and cause those forward-looking statements to be inaccurate. Words such as "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "forecasts," "estimates," "seeks," "may result in," "focused on," "continue to," and similar expressions often identify forward-looking statements. In this report, forward-looking statements include, without limitation, the following: •our expectations and beliefs regarding future conduct and growth of the business; •anticipated impact of our consumer business on both revenue and expenses; •our expectations regarding our collaboration with premium technology support partners and the anticipated timing of any revenue from these relationships; •our plans to expand the number of our customer support agents and to make such agents home-based; •our beliefs and expectations regarding the introduction of new products and related services and features; •our assessments and expectations surrounding profitability of our enterprise business; •our expectations regarding cash flows and expenses, including sales and marketing, research and development efforts, and administrative expenses; •our beliefs regarding seasonality, mix of revenue, and other trends for our business; •our assessments and beliefs regarding the future outcome of pending legal proceedings and the liability, if any, that we may incur as a result of those proceedings; •our expectations regarding the costs and other effects of acquisition and disposition transactions; •the assumptions underlying our Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates, including our assumptions regarding revenue recognition; assumptions used to estimate the fair value of share-based compensation; assumptions regarding the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets; and expected accounting for income taxes; and •the expected effects of the adoption of new accounting standards. An investment in our stock involves risk, and we caution investors that forward-looking statements are only predictions based on our current expectations about future events and are not guarantees of future performance. We encourage you to read carefully all information provided in this report and in our other filings with the SEC before deciding to invest in our stock or to maintain or change your investment. Forward-looking statements are based on information as of the filing date of this report, and we undertake no obligation to publicly revise or update any forward-looking statement for any reason. Because forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from our stated expectations. These factors are described below. This list does not include all risks that could affect our business, and if these or any other risks or uncertainties materialize, or if our underlying assumptions prove to be inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and from our expected future results. 14 We have not been profitable and may not achieve profitability in future periods. We were not profitable in 2007. In addition, we intend to make significant investments in support of our business in 2008 and we expect to continue to sustain losses in 2008 and possibly subsequent periods. If we fail to achieve revenue growth as a result of these additional investments or if such revenue growth does not result in our achieving profitability, the market price of our common stock will likely decline. A sustained period of losses would also result in an increased usage of cash to fund our operating activities and a corresponding reduction in our cash balance. Our quarterly results have in the past, and may in the future, fluctuate significantly. Our quarterly revenue and operating results have in the past and may in the future fluctuate from quarter to quarter. As a result, we believe that quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year comparisons of our revenue and operating results are not necessarily meaningful, and that these comparisons may not be accurate indicators of future performance. Several factors that have contributed or may in the future contribute to fluctuations in our operating results include: •demand for our software and services; •our collaboration with premium technology support partners including retailers, and the timing and success of these partners' introduction and sale of our products; •size and timing of customer orders and our ability to recognize revenue in a given quarter; •our ability to increase the efficiency and capacity of our customer support agents; •our reliance on a small number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenue; •the price and mix of products and services we or our competitors offer; •the mix of products and services that generate up-front revenue as opposed to revenue over a period of time; •our ability to attract and retain customers; •our ability to adapt to our customers' needs in a market space defined by frequent technological change; •the rate of expansion of our new consumer offerings and our investments therein; •the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures in our business; •seasonal trends resulting from corporate spending patterns; •the exercise of judgment by our management in making accounting decisions in accordance with our accounting policies •potential losses on marketable securities, foreign exchange exposures on contracts, or other losses from financial instruments we may hold that are exposed to market risk; and •general economic conditions and their effect on our operations. Over the last three years, we have licensed our enterprise software predominately on a perpetual basis in which we recognize the license revenue up front, assuming all criteria for revenue recognition have been met. As a result of our current perpetual licensing model for the enterprise business, we have become dependent on a few customer contracts with up-front license revenue for a substantial portion of our revenue in any one quarter. In addition, a significant portion of our total revenue each quarter comes from a number of orders received in the last month of a quarter. In previous quarters, 15 we failed to close expected perpetual licenses with up-front revenue resulting in a revenue shortfall. If in future quarters we fail to close orders expected to be completed by the end of a quarter, particularly if these orders are for perpetual licenses with up-front revenue, our quarterly results would suffer and the market price of our common stock would likely decline. While revenues in our consumer business are generally recognized over the course of a quarter based on the number of services delivered, this revenue is not significant enough at this time to offset a shortfall in perpetual license revenue. Our inability to meet future financial performance targets that we announce or that are published by research analysts could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. From time to time, we provide guidance related to our future financial performance. In addition, financial analysts publish their own expectations of our future financial performance. Because our quarterly revenue and our operating results fluctuate, future financial performance is difficult to predict. In the past, including the third quarter of 2007, we have failed to meet our guidance. As it did following the announcement of our third quarter results, future downward adjustments of our guidance or the failure to meet our guidance or the expectations of research analysts would likely cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Management's ability to accurately predict performance is affected in large part by a significant portion of our total revenue being dependent upon the closing of new large customer orders. In addition, our guidance is based in part upon the expectation of new product sales and services offerings, including our consumer business, with which we have a limited history. A significant portion of our consumer business is dependent upon relationships with consumer support partners, including retailers. We sell to numerous consumers through each of these partners, and therefore a delay in the acquisition or rollout of our relationship with even one of these partners could cause us to miss revenue targets. In the event we fail to achieve projected revenue levels in any quarter, we will be unable to reduce our expenses for that quarter in a corresponding fashion, and our results will not meet our guidance or the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which would likely cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. We do not control these analysts. If one or more of the analysts who currently cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price would likely decline rapidly. Furthermore, if one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause the market price of our stock to decline. Finally, the market prices of software companies have been extremely volatile. Stock prices of many software companies have often fluctuated in a manner unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. In the past, following periods of market volatility, stockholders have often instituted securities class action litigation relating to the stock trading and price volatility of the software company in question, including SupportSoft. Any securities litigation we are involved in could result in substantial cost to us to defend and divert resources and the attention of management from our business. Our consumer business will increase operating expenses without any assurance of yielding increased revenue. We are executing a plan to extend our business by providing premium technology support services. In addition to continuing to offer our software to corporate customers, we are offering technology support to consumers through our alliance partners and directly. We may not be able to offer these new services successfully. We have limited experience in reaching or serving consumers or in managing customer support agents. We expect that many of our agents will be home-based, which will require a high degree of coordination and quality control of employees working from diverse and remote 16 locations. As a result, we expect to continue to use significant cash and incur increased operating expenses to support this initiative, including costs associated with our customer support agents, costs to acquire technology and infrastructure to support our consumer business, promotional costs associated with reaching consumers, and costs of obtaining personnel with the necessary consumer expertise. These investments may not yield increased revenue to offset these expenses. Furthermore, this new business initiative, if not favorably received by consumers, could damage the reputation of our corporate enterprise business as well as strain our management, financial and operational resources necessary to maintain our corporate business. The lack of market acceptance of such efforts or our inability to generate satisfactory revenue from such expanded services would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. If we fail to manage our customer support agents efficiently and in a manner that provides an adequate level of support for our customers, our reputation and revenues could be harmed. Our plans for our consumer business depend in part on our ability to increase the number of our customer support agents in order to satisfy the demand for our consumer services. Any material disruption or slowdown in our service delivery infrastructure and systems resulting from labor disputes, telephone or Internet failures, power or service outages, natural disasters or other events could make it difficult or impossible to provide adequate customer service and support. Further, we may be unable to attract and retain adequate numbers of competent customer support agents, which is essential in creating a favorable interactive customer experience. If we are unable to continually provide adequate staffing for our service delivery operations, our revenue and reputation could be seriously harmed. Because a small number of enterprise customers have historically accounted for and may in future periods account for substantial portions of our revenue, our revenue could decline because of delays or losses of specific customer orders. A small number of enterprise customers have historically accounted for, and may in future periods account for, substantial portions of our revenue. For the fourth quarter of 2007, one customer accounted for 18% of our total revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2007, the same customer accounted for 18% of total revenue. In 2008, we are likely to continue to derive a significant portion of our enterprise revenue from large transactions with a limited number of customers. Therefore, our revenue could decline because of the loss or delay of a single enterprise customer order. Additionally, we may not obtain new customers. The failure to obtain significant new customers, particularly customers that purchase perpetual licenses with up-front payments, the loss or delay of significant customer orders or the failure of existing customers to pay ongoing fees when due would harm our operating results. Our sales cycle in our enterprise business is lengthy and if revenue forecasted for a particular quarter is not realized in that quarter, significant expenses incurred may not be offset by corresponding revenue. Our sales cycle for our software in our enterprise business typically ranges from three to nine months or more and may vary substantially from customer to customer. The purchase of our products and services for corporate customers generally involves a significant commitment of capital and other resources by a customer. This commitment often requires significant technical review, assessment of competitive products and approval at a number of management levels within a customer's organization. While our enterprise customers are evaluating our products and services, we may incur substantial sales and marketing expenses and spend significant management effort to complete these sales. Any delay in completing sales in a particular quarter or the failure to complete a sale after expending resources during the sales cycle could cause our operating results to suffer. 17 We may be unable to achieve or sustain profitability in our enterprise business if we do not manage our professional services organization or other costs in our enterprise business effectively. Clients that license our enterprise software solutions typically engage our professional services organization to assist with installation and implementation of our software and related consulting services. Revenue from professional services represented a substantial portion of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2007. Although significant improvement occurred in the second half of 2007, our professional services business was not profitable during the first half of 2007. We have generally billed our customers for professional services on a time and material basis, using an agreed upon daily rate. However, customers have increasingly requested various contract structures, including milestone-based contracts and contracts for a fixed total fee. If unanticipated factors in a project are encountered, we may be subject to monetary and other significant penalties, and the profitably of our professional services business would decline. Furthermore, an estimated loss on a contract is generally required to be recorded in the period in which a loss becomes evident. Recording a loss on a services contract could have a material adverse effect on our operating results for the period in which the loss was recorded. In addition to managing the costs in our professional services organization, if we are unable to manage costs in our enterprise customer support, research and development or sales and marketing organizations, our enterprise business may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability. If our existing customers do not renew maintenance contracts or purchase additional products and services, our operating results could suffer. Historically, we have derived, and expect to continue to derive, a significant portion of our total revenue from existing customers who purchase additional products and services and renew maintenance contracts. In the past, some customers have sought to reduce the fees required to renew their maintenance contracts. In certain cases we have permitted customers to reduce their maintenance fees for a corresponding reduction in the level of our support obligation to them. Furthermore, our customers may not renew maintenance contracts or purchase additional products and services. In addition, as we introduce new products, our current customers may not require or desire the functionality of our new products and may not ultimately purchase these products. If our customers do not renew maintenance contracts or do not purchase additional products and services, our operating results would suffer. If our revenue from our international operations does not exceed the expense of establishing and maintaining international operations, our business could suffer. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007, international revenue was 21%, 23% and 24% of total revenue, respectively. We have limited experience in international operations and may not be able to compete effectively in international markets or effectively manage our operations in various countries. If we do not generate enough revenue from international operations to offset the expense of these operations, our operating results could suffer. Risks we face in conducting business internationally include: •costs of staffing and managing international operations; •changes in currency exchange rates and controls; •smaller customers with less ability to pay United States rates for software and services; •difficulty in reaching geographically dispersed customers; •compliance with a variety of complex laws and treaties, including unexpected changes in (or new) legislative or regulatory requirements; 18 •differing technology standards, intellectual property protections, consumer protection and data privacy standards, and other legal considerations; •loss of proprietary information due to piracy, misappropriation or weaker laws regarding intellectual property protection; •longer sales cycles; •seasonal trends unique to international markets; •need to localize our products and services; •dependence on local vendors, consultants and business partners; •difficulties in staffing and managing international operations, including the difficulty in managing a geographically dispersed workforce in compliance with diverse local laws and customs; •potential adverse tax consequences; •licenses, tariffs and other trade barriers; •difficulties in maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and compliance as a result of a geographically-dispersed workforce and customers; •longer collection cycles for accounts receivable; and •the effects of external events such as terrorist acts and any related conflicts or similar events worldwide. Our failure to establish and expand successful third-party alliances would harm our operating results. Our consumer offerings require us to establish and maintain relationships with third parties, including retailers, who will direct consumers to us and provide technology support services to consumers based on our technology, as well as with third parties to whom we outsource some of our service delivery operations. Failure to establish or maintain third-party relationships in our consumer business, particularly with partners who sell our services, on acceptable terms or at all could materially and adversely affect the success of our business. We sell to numerous consumers through each of these partners, and therefore a delay in the acquisition or rollout of our relationship with even one of these partners could cause us to miss revenue targets. Like our sales cycle in the enterprise business, the process of establishing a relationship with a retail partner can be complex and time consuming, and we must pass multiple levels of review and test marketing in order to be selected. If we are unable to establish a sufficient number of new retail partners on a timely basis our sales will suffer. There is also the risk that, once established, with these partners may take longer than we expect to produce revenue or may not produce revenue at all. One or more of our key partners may also discontinue selling our services, offer them only on a limited basis or devote insufficient time and attention to promoting them to their customers. If any of these key partners merge with a competitor, particularly one that offers a service competitive with ours, all of these risks could be exacerbated. Each of these risks could reduce our sales and significantly harm our operating results. While our consumer call center outsourcing relationships give us flexibility and greater capacity, those relationships also pose risks. We may be less able to manage the quality of services provided by outsourced call centers as directly as we would our own employees, and outsourced services may be more costly. We have alliances with third parties that are important to our enterprise offerings. Our existing relationships include those with hardware vendors and managed service providers who provide outsourced support to corporate customers. If these relationships fail, we may need to devote substantially more resources to the sales and marketing of our products and services than we would 19 otherwise, and our efforts may not be as effective. In addition, we may establish relationships with third-party resellers and other sales partners as we expand internationally. Our failure to maintain existing relationships, or to establish new relationships with key third parties, could significantly harm our ability to sell our products and services. In addition, our competitors may have strong alliances with other companies, including hardware providers, which could impact our ability to obtain greater market share, participate in deals where hardware and software are sold together, or require us to reduce the price of products and services, which could harm our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. Our investments in marketable securities are subject to market risks which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. At December 31, 2007, we had $13 million in cash and cash equivalents and $100 million in investments in marketable securities. We have historically invested these amounts in government debt securities, auction-rate securities, corporate notes and bonds, commercial paper and money market funds meeting certain criteria. Certain of these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by the U.S. housing recession that has affected various sectors of the financial markets and caused credit and liquidity issues. During the year-ended December 31, 2007, we determined that any declines in the fair value of our investments were temporary. There may be further declines in the value of these investments, which we may determine to be other-than-temporary. These market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have a negative adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. At March 11, 2008 and December 31, 2007 we had investments in AAA-rated auction-rate debt securities with various state student loan authorities of $25.3 million and $38.9 million, respectively. At the time of our initial investment and through the date of this Report, all of the securities we have invested in are rated AAA, the highest rating issued by a rating agency, and the student loans made by these authorities are substantially guaranteed by the federal government through the Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP). Auction-rate securities are long-term variable rate bonds tied to short-term interest rates and are classified as current assets. After the initial issuance of the securities, the interest rate on the securities is reset periodically, at intervals established at the time of issuance (e.g., every seven, twenty-eight, or thirty-five days; every six months; etc.), based on market demand for a reset period. Auction-rate securities are bought and sold in the marketplace through a competitive bidding process often referred to as a "Dutch auction". If there is insufficient interest in the securities at the time of an auction, the auction may not be completed and the rates may be reset to predetermined higher "penalty" or "maximum" rates. Following such a failed auction, we would not be able to access our funds that are invested in the corresponding auction-rate securities until a future auction of these investments is successful, new buyers express interest in purchasing these securities in between reset dates, issuers establish a different form of financing to replace these securities, or final payments become due according to contractual maturities. Given the current negative liquidity conditions in the global credit markets, in February and March 2008 auctions failed for all of the $25.3 million of auction-rate securities we held as of March 11, 2008, and as a result our ability to liquidate our investment and fully recover the carrying value of our investment in the near term may be limited or not exist. If future auctions fail and we believe we will not hold the security to maturity, we may in the future be required to record an impairment charge on these investments. We may similarly be required to record impairment charges if the ratings on any of these securities are reduced or if any of the issuers default on their obligations. In addition to impairment charges, any of these events could cause us to lose part or all of our investment in these securities. Any of these events could materially affect our results of operations and our financial condition. We currently believe these securities are not significantly impaired, primarily due to the AAA credit rating of the issuers and the government backing of the loans made by the issuers; however, it could take until the final maturity of the underlying notes (up to 30 years) to realize our investments' recorded value. Based on our expected 20 operating cash flows, and our other sources of cash, we do not anticipate the potential lack of liquidity on these investments will affect our ability to execute our current business plan. We have recorded long-lived assets, and our results of operations would be adversely affected if their value becomes impaired. Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets were recorded in part due to our acquisition of substantially all of the assets of Core Networks Incorporated in September 2004. We also have certain intangible assets with an indefinite life. We assess the impairment of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets annually or more often if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We assess the impairment of acquired product rights and other finite life intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that its carrying amount may not be recoverable. As a result of our discontinuance of active marketing and selling of one of the products we acquired from Core Networks, and a reevaluation of the fair value of the Core Network's technology intangible assets, we recognized a non-cash write-down of approximately $1.7 million during the fourth quarter of 2007. An impairment loss was recognized because the sum of the discounted future net cash flows expected to result from the use of the assets and their eventual disposition was less than the carrying amounts. Such impairment loss was measured as the difference between the carrying amounts of the assets and their fair value. Furthermore, we evaluate cash flows at the lowest operating level. If the number of reporting units increases in the future, as it has in 2008, this may make impairment more probable than it would be with fewer reporting units. As was the case in the fourth quarter of 2007, future write-downs of goodwill or net long-lived and intangible assets, would cause our operating results to suffer. We may engage in investments, dispositions, acquisitions or other strategic transactions that could divert management attention and prove difficult to integrate with our business. We may engage in acquisitions or divestitures of certain assets, businesses, products or technologies, or in other strategic initiatives. Acquisitions, divestitures and other strategic transactions are inherently risky. Certain transactions may be subject to closing conditions, which may not be satisfied, and transactions may not be completed, even after public announcement. Acquisitions may require further use of our cash resources, the issuance of equity or debt securities, or the incurrence of other forms of debt, any of which could harm our financial condition, results of operations, or our interest expense and leverage. If we issue equity securities, current stockholders' percentage ownership and earnings per share may be diluted. The process of integrating businesses, technologies, services or products may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Acquisitions and divestitures could involve a number of other potential risks to our business, including the following: •unanticipated costs and liabilities and unforeseen accounting charges or fluctuations; •delays and difficulties in delivery of products and services; •failure to integrate management information systems, personnel, research and development, marketing, sales and support operations; •loss of key employees; •diversion of management's attention from other business concerns and disruption of our ongoing business; •difficulty in maintaining controls and procedures; •uncertainty on the part of our existing customers about our ability to operate after a transaction; •loss of customers; 21 •loss of alliance partners; •failure to realize the potential financial or strategic benefits of the acquisition; and •failure to successfully further develop the combined technology, resulting in the impairment of amounts recorded as goodwill or other intangible assets. We must compete successfully in the markets in which we operate or our business will suffer. We compete in markets that are highly competitive, subject to rapid change and significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants. We compete with a number of companies in the market for automated delivery of support and service automation and other vendors who may offer products or services with features that compete with specific elements of our software products and services. In addition, our customers and potential customers have developed or may develop internally similar software systems. The markets for our products are still rapidly evolving, and we may not be able to compete successfully against current and potential competitors. Our ability to expand our business will depend on our ability to maintain our technological advantage, introduce timely enhanced products to meet growing support needs, deliver on-going value to our customers and scale our business. Our potential competitors may have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical and other resources, stronger strategic alliances or greater name recognition than we have. Competition in our markets could reduce our market share or require us to reduce the price of products and services, which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. As we further expand our business into the market for premium technology support, we expect new competitors, including electronics retailers that offer premium technology support services, companies that offer online technology support and local computer repair shops. Certain of these competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical and other resources, stronger strategic alliances or greater name recognition than we have. The integration of new management and the loss of key personnel may affect our ability to achieve our business goals. Our success depends on the skills, experience and performance of our senior management, engineering, sales, marketing and other key personnel. Many members of senior management have been appointed within the last 2 years. Our success will depend to a significant extent on the ability of these executives to function effectively in their new roles and to work together successfully. If these executives do not function and work together successfully, or if we lose the services of one or more of our executives or key employees, our business could be harmed. In addition, we have reduced our workforce. Reductions in our workforce could make it difficult to motivate and retain remaining employees or attract needed new employees, and could also affect our ability to deliver products and services in a timely fashion. Our reorganization efforts may strain our management and our administrative, technical, operational and financial infrastructure. In January 2008, we reorganized the company and began operating in two business units, the Consumer Solutions Group (composed of operations relating to the consumer initiative we launched in 2007), and the Enterprise Solutions Group (composed of our traditional business). And we also appointed an executive vice president to lead each of the business units. We made this change in an effort to ensure that each part of our business is focused, accountable and transparent. In connection with this change we made several management and organizational changes. We are also focused on increasing our operating margins and improving our operating efficiencies, particularly in our enterprise 22 business. To this end, we have undertaken reductions in our workforce in the fourth quarter of 2007. All of these changes place a strain on our management, and our administrative, technical, operational and financial infrastructure. In addition, reductions in our workforce could make it difficult to motivate and retain remaining employees or attract needed new employees, and could also affect our ability to deliver products and services in a timely fashion. Our exposure to the credit risks of our customers and resellers could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. To sell to some of our customers, we may be required to take risks of uncollectible accounts. We may be exposed to similar risks relating to third party resellers and other sales partners, as we intend to increasingly utilize such parties as we expand into new geographic regions. Additionally, as we have expanded our business internationally, we have experienced longer payment terms and collection cycles from customers outside the United States. While we monitor these situations carefully and attempt to take appropriate measures to protect ourselves by recognizing revenue upon collection of accounts from customers we deem to have credit risks and upon sell-through by resellers, it is possible that we may have to write down or write off doubtful accounts. Such write-downs or write-offs would negatively affect our operating results for the period in which they occur, and, if large, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Our future product and service offerings may not achieve market acceptance. If we fail to develop enhanced versions of our software in a timely manner or to provide products and services that achieve rapid and broad market acceptance, we may not maintain or expand our market share. We may fail to identify new product and service opportunities for our current market or new markets that we enter in the future. In addition, our existing products may become obsolete if we fail to introduce new products or product enhancements that meet new customer demands, support new standards or integrate with new or upgraded versions of packaged applications or operating systems. We have limited control over factors that affect market acceptance of our product and services, including: •the willingness of companies to transition to automated solutions; and •customer preferences for competitors' solutions or other technologies. Our products depend on, and work with, products containing complex software; if our products fail to perform properly due to errors in the software, we may need to devote resources to correct the errors or compensate for losses from these errors and our reputation could be harmed. Our products depend on complex software, both internally developed and licensed from third parties. Also, our customers may use our products with other companies' products, which may also contain complex software. Complex software often contains errors and may not perform properly. These errors could result in: •delays in product shipments; •unexpected expenses and diversion of resources to identify the source of errors or to correct errors, whether or not the error is later determined to be related to our software; •damage to our reputation; •loss of or delay in revenue and loss of market share; •loss of customers; •failure to achieve market acceptance; 23 •contractual penalties, demands, claims and litigation and related defense costs; •increased service and warranty costs; and •increased insurance costs. In our consumer offerings, we generally use our own products to diagnose and resolve consumer technology problems. If our products fail to perform well in this environment, our consumer offerings would suffer and may not be successful. Our software may not operate with the hardware and software platforms that are used by our customers now or in the future, and, as a result, our business and operating results may suffer. We currently serve a customer base with a wide variety of constantly changing hardware, software and networking platforms. For example, 64-bit microprocessors are becoming increasingly important to our customer base. If we fail to release versions of our software that are compatible with operating systems, software applications or hardware devices used by our customers, our business and operating results would suffer. Our future success also depends on the continuing ability of our products to inter-operate with multiple platforms and packaged applications used by our customer base and on our management of software being developed by third parties for our customers or for use with our products. We rely on third-party technologies and our inability to use or integrate third-party technologies could delay product or service development. We intend to continue to license technologies from third parties, including applications used in our research and development activities and technologies such as third-party search engine technology, which are integrated into our products and services. Our use of technologies licensed from third parties poses certain risks. Some of the third-party technologies we license may be provided under "open source" licenses, which may have terms that require us to make generally available our modifications or derivative works based on such open source code. Our inability to obtain or integrate third-party technologies with our own products could delay product and service development until equivalent compatible technology can be identified, licensed and integrated. These third-party technologies may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We may fail to successfully integrate any licensed technology into our products or services, which would harm our business and operating results. Third-party licenses also expose us to increased risks that include: •risks of product malfunction after new technology is integrated; •the diversion of resources from the development of our own proprietary technology; and •our inability to generate revenue from new technology sufficient to offset associated acquisition and maintenance costs. Interruptions or delays in service from our third-party Web hosting provider could impair the delivery of our services and harm our business. We serve certain of our customers through a third-party hosting facility located in the United States. We do not control the operation of this facility, and it is vulnerable to damage or interruption from fires, floods, telecommunications and connectivity failures, power failures, and similar events. This facility is also subject to risks from vandalism, break-ins, intrusion, and similar intentional misconduct. Despite precautions taken at this facility such as disaster recovery planning, a natural disaster, act of terrorism or other unanticipated problem could cause lengthy interruptions in the availability of our services and hosted software offerings. Interruptions in our services could reduce our revenue, increase 24 our costs, cause customers and partners to fail to renew or to terminate their use of our offerings, and harm our reputation and our ability to attract new customers. Our systems collect, access, use, and store personal customer information and enable customer transactions, which poses security risks, requires us to invest significant resources to prevent or correct problems caused by security breaches, and may harm our business. A fundamental requirement for online communications, transactions and support is the secure collection, storage and transmission of confidential information. Our systems collect and store confidential and/or personal information of our customers, including credit card information, and our employees and contractors may access and use that information in the course of providing services for our customers. In addition, we collect and retain personal information of our employees in the ordinary course of our business. We and our third-party contractors use commercially available technologies to secure this information. Despite these measures, third parties may attempt to breach the security of our data or that of our customers. In addition, errors in the storage or transmission of data could breach the security of that information. We may be liable to our customers for any breach in security and any breach could subject us to governmental or administrative proceedings or monetary penalties, and harm our business and reputation. Also, computers are vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, which could lead to interruptions, delays or loss of data. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to comply with mandatory privacy and security standards required by law, industry standard, or contract, and to further protect against security breaches or to correct problems caused by any breach. Privacy concerns and laws or other domestic or foreign regulations may require us to incur significant costs and may reduce the effectiveness of our solutions, and our failure to comply with those laws or regulations may harm our business and cause us to lose customers. Our software contains features that allow our customers and our consumer technology support technicians to access, control, monitor or collect information from computers running the software. Federal, state and foreign government bodies and agencies, however, have adopted or are considering adopting laws and regulations restricting or otherwise regulating the collection, use and disclosure of personal information obtained from consumers and individuals. Those regulations could be costly to implement, could reduce the efficiency of our operations, and could require us to modify our products, systems or services. Liability for violation of, costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by such laws and regulations may limit the use and adoption of our solutions and reduce overall demand for them. Even the perception of privacy concerns, whether or not valid, may harm our reputation and inhibit adoption of our solutions. In addition, we may face claims about invasion of privacy or inappropriate disclosure, use, storage, or loss of this information. Any imposition of liability could harm our reputation, cause us to lose customers and cause our operating results to suffer. Our reported results of operations will continue to be materially and adversely affected by our adoption of SFAS 123R. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), "Share-Based Payment" (SFAS 123R) became effective in our first quarter of 2006, and has resulted in our recognition of substantial compensation expense relating to our employee stock options and employee stock purchase plans. Historically, we generally have not recognized in our statement of operations any compensation expense related to stock option grants we issue under our stock option plans or the discounts we provide under our employee stock purchase plans. We are now required to measure the compensation expense related to employee stock awards on a fair value basis, which leads to substantial additional compensation expense and a material adverse effect on our reported results of operations. 25 If we are unable to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures, including our internal control over financial reporting, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be adversely affected. We have evaluated our "disclosure controls and procedures" as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Exchange Act, as well as our internal control over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as of December 31, 2007. Effective controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our operating results would be harmed. As of December 31, 2006, we concluded that we had a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, as further described in Item 9A of Part II of our 2006 Form 10-K, Control and Procedures. Our independent registered public accounting firm reached the same conclusion. In the first quarter of 2007, we implemented corrective actions that remediated this material weakness. During 2007, we monitored the effectiveness of these controls and believe the controls to be effective as of December 31, 2007. However, we cannot be certain that these measures will continue to be effective, or if other weaknesses are identified, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be adversely affected. In addition, if we cannot establish effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Failure to resolve litigation or claims asserted against us may lead to continued costs and expenses and divert management's attention from our business, which could cause our revenue and our stock price to decline. A securities class action lawsuit was filed against us and other issuers in November 2001. Should this lawsuit linger for a longer period of time, whether ultimately resolved in our favor or not, or further lawsuits be filed against us, coverage limits of our insurance or our ability to pay such amounts may not be adequate to cover the fees and expenses and any ultimate resolution associated with such litigation. The size of these payments, if any, individually or in the aggregate, could seriously impair our cash reserves and financial condition. The continued defense of this lawsuit also could result in diversion of our management's time and attention away from business operations, which could cause our financial results to decline. A failure to resolve definitively current or future material litigation in which we are involved or in which we may become involved in the future, regardless of the merits of the respective cases, could also cast doubt as to our prospects in the eyes of customers, potential customers and investors, which could cause our revenue and stock price to decline. We may not obtain sufficient patent protection, which could harm our competitive position, increase our expenses and harm our business. Our success and ability to compete depend to a significant degree upon the protection of our software and other proprietary technology. It is possible that: •our pending patent applications may not be issued; •competitors may independently develop similar technologies or design around any of our patents; •patents issued to us may not be broad enough to protect our proprietary rights; and •our issued patents could be successfully challenged. 26 We rely upon patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets to protect our proprietary rights and if these rights are not sufficiently protected, it could harm our ability to compete and to generate revenue. We rely on a combination of laws, such as those applicable to patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, and contractual restrictions, such as confidentiality agreements and licenses, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. Our ability to compete and grow our business could suffer if these rights are not adequately protected. Our proprietary rights may not be adequately protected because: •laws and contractual restrictions may not adequately prevent misappropriation of our technologies or deter others from developing similar technologies; and •policing unauthorized use of our products and trademarks is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and we may be unable to determine the existence or extent of this unauthorized use. Also, the laws of other countries in which we market our products may offer little or no protection of our proprietary technologies. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technologies could enable third parties to benefit from our technologies without paying us for them, which would harm our competitive position and market share. We may face intellectual property infringement claims that could be costly to defend and result in our loss of significant rights. Our business relies upon the use and licensing of technology and software. Other parties may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us or our customers, and our products may infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties. For example, our products may infringe issued patents that may relate to our products. In addition, as is increasingly common in the software industry, we may be confronted with the aggressive enforcement of patents by companies whose primary business activity is to acquire patents for the purpose of offensively asserting them against other companies. From time to time, we have received allegations of intellectual property infringement, and we may receive more claims in the future. Intellectual property litigation is expensive and time-consuming and could divert management's attention from our business. The outcome of any litigation is uncertain and could significantly impact our financial results. If there is a successful claim of infringement, we may be required to develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or license agreements, which may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Our failure to develop non-infringing technologies or license proprietary rights on a timely basis would harm our business. If the growth of demand for digital services does not continue, our ability to increase our revenue could suffer. Our ability to increase our revenue will depend in part on increased demand for digital services such as high speed data, video over DSL and VoIP. If this demand does not grow as rapidly or to the extent we anticipate, our business could suffer. The growth of digital services is uncertain and will depend in particular upon the availability, at a reasonable price, of such digital services, the building of infrastructure to support such services, the availability of competitive products, and the reliability of such services. We may experience a decrease in market demand due to uncertain economic conditions in the United States and in international markets, which has been further exacerbated by the concerns of terrorism, war and social and political instability. The United States and international economies have in the past experienced periods of slow economic growth and this could occur again. In addition, terrorist attacks in the United States and 27 turmoil in certain overseas regions have increased uncertainty and may exacerbate a decline in economic conditions, both domestically and internationally. If the economy declines as a result of economic, political and social turmoil, or if there are further terrorist attacks in the United States or elsewhere, we may experience decreases in the demand for our products and services, which would harm our operating results. Compliance with public company rules and regulations is costly and requires significant resources. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Nasdaq Global Select Market, has required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. These rules and regulations require significant internal and external resources to comply with and are costly. Additionally, such compliance has made some activities more time-consuming. These rules and regulations make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. Also, these new rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and qualified executive officers. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 