Item 1A RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business We are a relatively young company subject to the risks associated with operating in a new and evolving market. As a relatively young company in the new and rapidly evolving PRC Internet market, we face numerous risks and uncertainties. Some of these risks relate to our ability to: • continue to attract a larger audience to our matrices of Web properties and proprietary search engines by expanding the type and technical sophistication of the content and services we offer; • maintain our current, and develop new, strategic relationships to increase our revenue streams as well as product and service offerings; • increase the revenues derived from our fee-based services and products we offer online; • build our sponsored search, wireless, online games and e-commerce businesses successfully; and • attract and retain qualified personnel. Our operating results are likely to fluctuate significantly and may differ from market expectations. Our annual and quarterly operating results have varied significantly in the past, and may vary significantly in the future, due to a number of factors which could have an adverse impact on our business, such as our reliance on advertisers in certain industries for brand advertising revenues, our reliance on certain key third party distributors for sponsored search revenues and our reliance on mobile network operators for our wireless revenues. The Chinese Internet industry is in an early stage of development and we are unsure if it will continue to grow or at what rate it will grow, and we are subject to government regulations that may change at any time with or without notice. Fluctuations in the industries of our key advertisers may affect our brand advertising revenues materially, because they may cut their spending on online marketing if there is any downturn in their industries. We rely on certain third party distributors to sell our sponsored search products. If we lose any of our key distributors, our business may be materially affected. We rely on mobile network operators for, among other things, billing of and collection of wireless service fees from mobile phone users. If our arrangements with the operators were to be terminated, altered or not renewed, or if the operators did not provide continuous or adequate service, our wireless revenues could be reduced significantly. As a result, we believe that year-to-year and quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. In addition, we have experienced very high growth rates in certain business lines in the past and there may be expectations that these growth rates will continue. In the past, our operating results have sometimes fallen below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, and they may do so again in the future. In this event, the trading price of our common stock may fall. We face intense competition which could reduce our market share and adversely affect our financial performance. There are many companies that distribute online content and services targeting Chinese users. We compete with distributors of content and services over the Internet, including Web directories, search engines, content sites, Internet service providers and sites maintained by government and educational institutions. These sites compete with us for visitor traffic, advertising dollars, wireless services, e-commerce transactions and potential partners. The Internet market in China is relatively new and rapidly evolving. Competition is intense and is expected to increase significantly in the future because there are no substantial barriers to entry in our market. We have many competitors in the PRC Internet market, including Sina, Netease, Tecent, Baidu, Tom Online, KongZhong, Linktone, Shanda, Google and Yahoo! China. In addition, there are a number of existing or new PRC Internet portals, including those controlled or sponsored by PRC government entities. These private and government sponsored competitors may have certain competitive advantages over us in terms of: • substantially greater financial and technical resources; 18 Table of Contents • more extensive and well developed marketing and sales networks; • better access to original content and information; • greater global brand recognition among consumers; and • larger customer bases. We compete with other portals in China primarily on the following basis: • attractiveness of products; • brand recognition; • volume of traffic and users; • quality of our Websites and content; • strategic relationships; • quality of our services; • effectiveness of sales and marketing efforts; • talented staff; and • price. Our existing competitors may in the future achieve greater market acceptance and gain additional market share. It is also possible that new competitors may emerge and acquire significant market share. In particular, our search engine faces intense competition from software and other Internet products and services incorporating search and retrieval capabilities, such as Baidu, Google and Yahoo! China. In addition, operators of leading Websites or Internet service providers, including Yahoo!, Microsoft/MSN and America Online, currently offer, and could expand, their online products and services targeting China. We believe the rapid increase in China’s online population will draw more attention from these multinational players to the PRC Internet market. We also compete with traditional forms of media, such as newspapers, magazines, radio and television, for advertisers and advertising revenues. If we fail to successfully develop and introduce new products and services, our competitive position and ability to generate revenues could be harmed. We are continuously developing new products and services for our users. The planned timing or introduction of new products and services is subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual timing may differ materially from original plans. Unexpected technical, operational, distribution or other problems could delay or prevent the introduction of one or more of our new products or services. Moreover, we cannot be sure that any of our new products and services will achieve widespread market acceptance or generate incremental revenue. Our business depends on a strong brand, thus we will not be able to attract user, customers and clients of our products and offerings if we do not maintain and develop our brands. It is critical for us to maintain and develop our brands so as to effectively expand our user base and our revenues. We believe that the importance of brand recognition will increase as the number of Internet users in China grows. In order to attract and retain Internet users, advertisers, wireless, e-commerce and online games customers, we may need to substantially increase our expenditures for creating and maintaining brand loyalty. Accordingly, our revenues will need to increase at least proportionately, in order for us to maintain our current levels of profitability. Our success in promoting and enhancing our brands, as well as our ability to remain competitive, will also depend on our success in offering high quality content, features and functionality. If we fail to promote our brands successfully or if visitors to our Websites or advertisers do not perceive our content and services to be of high quality, we may not be able to continue growing our business and attracting visitors, advertisers, and wireless and e-commerce customers. 19 Table of Contents Our failure to keep up with rapid technology changes may severely affect our future success. The Internet industry is undergoing rapid technological changes. Our future success will depend on our ability to respond to rapidly evolving technologies, adapt our services to changing industry standards and improve the performance and reliability of our services. If we fail to adapt to such changes, our business may be adversely affected. For example, with the evolution of Web 2.0, Internet users may shift to new modes of information sharing, such as blogs. With the development of search engine technologies, Internet users may choose to access information, news and contents through search engines rather than portals. In addition, with the development of 2.5G and even 3G technology, the focus of wireless applications has been transferred from text message services to multi-media messaging services, wireless games, wireless downloads and other applications. Accordingly, we will need to adapt our business to cope with the changes and support these new services to be successful. In addition, the online games industry is evolving rapidly, so we will need to anticipate new technologies and games and evaluate their possible market acceptance. We may be unable to recover our game development costs if new technologies render our online games less attractive to users. We depend on online advertising for a significant portion of our revenues, but the online advertisement market includes many uncertainties, which could cause our advertising and revenues to decline. We derive a significant portion of our revenues, and expect to derive a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future, from the sale of advertising on our Websites. Advertising revenues represented approximately 65% and 54% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The growth of our advertising revenues relies on increased revenue from the sale of advertising spaces on our Websites, which may be affected by many risk factors. • Online advertising market is new and rapidly evolving, particularly in China. As a result, many of our current and potential advertising clients have limited experience using the Internet for advertising purposes and historically have not devoted a significant portion of their advertising budget to Internet-based advertising. • Advertising clients that have invested substantial resources in other methods of conducting business may be reluctant to adopt a new strategy that may limit or compete with their existing efforts. • The acceptance of the Internet as a medium for advertising depends on the development of a measurement standard. No standards have been widely accepted for the measurement of the effectiveness of online advertising. Industry-wide standards may not develop sufficiently to support the Internet as an effective advertising medium. If these standards do not develop, advertisers may choose not to advertise on the Internet in general or through our portals or search engines. In addition, our ability to generate and maintain significant online advertising revenues will also depend upon: • the development of a large base of users possessing demographic characteristics attractive to advertising clients; • the acceptance of online advertisement as an effective way for business marketing by advertising clients; • the effectiveness of our advertising delivery, tracking and reporting systems; and • the resistance pressure on online advertising prices and limitations on inventory. The expansion of Internet advertisement blocking software may result in a decrease of advertising revenues. The development of Web software that blocks Internet advertisements before they appear on a user’s screen may hinder the growth of online advertising. The expansion of advertisement blocking on the Internet may decrease our revenues because when an advertisement is blocked, it is not downloaded from our advertisement server. As a result, such advertisements will not be tracked as a delivered advertisement. In addition, advertisers may choose not to advertise on the Internet or on our Websites because of the use by third parties of Internet advertisement blocking software. Our failure to retain key distributors or attract additional distributors for our sponsored search customers could have an adverse impact on our business. Sponsored search is at an early stage of development in China and is not as widely accepted by or available to businesses in China as in the United States. As a result, we rely heavily on our nationwide distribution network of third-party distributors for our sales to, and collection of payment from, our sponsored search customers. If our distributors do not provide quality services to our customers or otherwise breach their contracts with them, we may lose customers. We do not have long-term agreements with any of our distributors, including our key distributors, and cannot assure that we will continue to maintain favorable relationships with them. 20 Table of Contents We rely on our Website Alliance members for a significant portion of our revenues. If we fail to retain existing Website Alliance members or attract additional members, our revenues and growth may be adversely affected. By posting bid listing links on their Websites, we share with our Website Alliance members the revenues generated from clicks by users. For the year ended December 31, 2005, the total revenues generated from Website Alliance accounted for 81% of our total bid listing revenues. We consider our Website Alliance critical to the future growth of our revenues. If our Website Alliance members decide to use a competitor’s or their own Internet search services, or if we fail to attract additional Websites to join our Website Alliance, our sponsored search revenue may decline. We rely on wireless services for a significant portion of our revenues. Wireless revenues decreased in prior periods and may decrease further in the future. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from wireless services. We derived our wireless revenues in prior periods from providing to mobile phone and Personal Handy-phone System (or PHS) users SMS, WAP, IVR, MMS and RBT, mainly consisting of news, weather forecast, chatting, entertainment information, ring tone and logo downloads and various other mobile related products provided to mobile phone users. For the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, wireless revenues represented approximately 24% and 35%, respectively, of our total revenues. Wireless revenues decreased in certain prior periods. Wireless revenues may decrease in the future due to the possibilities that: • Our consumers may not understand our services or the fees they are being charged, may not be satisfied with our services and/or may not use our services on a regular basis; • Consumers may cancel their services at any time without notice; • Revenues from new wireless services such as WAP, IVR, MMS and RBT may not continue to grow significantly and become a significant portion of our total wireless revenues; • Competitors, including mobile network operators, may launch competing or better products than ours at any time; • There are limited barriers to entry to the wireless services sector; • Changes in government policy could restrict or curtail the services which we provide; • Changes in the billing practices or operation rules and procedures of any of the four mobile network operators, namely CMCC, Unicom Corporation Limited (or Unicom), CNC and China Telecom, on whom we rely for service delivery and fee collection, could have a material impact on our wireless revenue; • Mobile network operators may impose penalties on wireless service providers, or SPs, for violating certain operating policies relating to the provision of wireless services. We have received several penalty notices from mobile network operators, claiming our breach of cooperation contracts and imposing both service suspension sanctions for a period of not more than a year and/or monetary penalties. There is no guarantee that we will not be subject to similar, or more severe penalties from mobile network operators in the future, which could significantly impair our wireless business; • We may enter into cooperation agreements with the mobile network operators, on terms that are not favorable to us since we have limited bargaining power to negotiate contract terms. In addition, mobile network operators may unilaterally revise their agreement at any time. As a result of such contract terms, we could be easily found in breach of our agreement with an operator and could be subject to penalties; and • Mobile network operators may not enter new agreements or renew existing agreements with SPs with respect to wireless services. However, those mobile network operators will continue work with us to provide services and monthly statements. New or renewed agreements with mobile operators could change in a way that would be unfavorable to us, or such agreements may not be entered into at all. We rely on contracts with the mobile network operators in a number of ways with respect to our wireless services, including billing of, and collection from, mobile phone users of wireless service fees. If our arrangements with mobile network operators were to be terminated, altered or not renewed, or if such operators did not provide continuous or adequate service, our revenues could be reduced. Our wireless services depend mainly on the cooperation of mobile network operators such as CMCC and its subsidiaries and Unicom and its subsidiaries. We rely on mobile network operators in the following ways: • we use mobile network operators’ networks and gateways to provide wireless services; • we use and rely on mobile network operators’ billing systems to charge our subscribers through the subscribers’ mobile phone bills; • we rely on mobile network operators’ collection proxy services to collect payments from subscribers; and 21 Table of Contents • we rely on mobile network operators’ infrastructure to further develop our wireless services. We face significant risks with respect to our arrangements with mobile network operators’, such as the following, which could adversely affect our wireless revenues: • Mobile network operators have both recently changed their operating rules and may make further changes at any time. Such recent or any future changes could result in our being required to pay penalties for breaching or being alleged to have breached certain provisions of our agreement with the mobile network operators under new or revised operation rules and procedures, or having our service discontinued with or without notice. Changes in these operating rules and regulations could also have a material impact on our revenues; • We provide wireless services through our Website and record the delivery of the service in our internal systems. However, in order to recognize revenue and receive payment for services provided, we rely on billing confirmations from mobile network operators as to the actual amount of services they have billed to their mobile customers. We are unable to collect wireless service fees from an operator in certain circumstances due to technical issues with the operator’s network. We refer to these failures as an operator’s “failure rate,” which can vary from operator to operator. An operator’s failure rate can vary from month to month, ranging from 0% to 96% and may change at any time without notice. If an operator encounters technical problems, increases in the failure rate for that operator could occur; • The service fees we pay for using an operator’s infrastructure are set based on the negotiation of annual contracts. Our negotiation leverage is limited and if an operator increases its service fees, or does not comply with the terms of our contract, our gross margin and profitability could be materially reduced. Based on recent communications with an operator, certain subsidiaries of the operator are considering increasing their service fees; • We are required to follow the operators’ guidance in setting up wireless service fees. We also rely on the mobile network operators to collect the fees on our behalf which they have billed to our mobile customers. If an operator requires us to reduce the wireless service fees charged to mobile customers, disallows us from billing of certain inactive customers, refuses to pay us or limits the amount of wireless service fees which can be billed or requires us to comply with any new billing rules, our revenues could be adversely affected; • An operator’s refusal to allow us to supply certain services could disrupt our wireless services. For example, for the period from September 1, 2004 to July 31, 2005, our MMS services were temporarily suspended by CMCC, based on allegations that Beijing Sohu breached certain provisions of its agreement with a CMCC subsidiary; • An operator could launch competing services at any time and could work with content providers directly so that SPs’ abilities to diversify their products might be limited. If mobile network operators were unwilling to work with us, we would not be able to find substitute partners; and • CMCC set up rules for ranking of WAP service providers on its Monternet browser, which has a significant impact on WAP revenues. CMCC may change the rules at any time to affect the rank of the top five listings. As a result, the growth of our WAP revenues was lower than expected and we may lose our first position because of lower visit rate. Many of our current and potential wireless customers have only limited experience using the Internet for subscription purposes, and may not be willing to fully embrace the products and services we offer, which would adversely affect our future revenues and business expansion. The wireless market is new and rapidly evolving in China. Many of our current and potential wireless customers have limited experience using the Internet for subscription services. Our wireless revenue growth depends upon user acceptance of our existing and new services, such as our wireless dating, e-mail, news, sports and jokes content, mobile alumni club and other products. Because these services are new and untested, we do not have a clear understanding of consumer behavior, making it difficult to predict future growth or usage. Customers may not be willing to fully embrace the products and services we offer. 22 Table of Contents Our investment in online games and e-commerce may not be successful. We have invested and may invest further in our online games and e-commerce businesses. Online gaming is currently one of the fastest growing online services in the PRC. We currently rely on licenses from third party game companies. Our licenses of Knight Online and Blade Online will expire in November and September 2006, respectively. In the event that a license expires and we wish to renew such license, the licensor may only agree to renew such license upon an increase in the license fee that we pay to such licensor. The e-commerce business is small and unproven in the PRC. We face intense competition in these areas. In addition, our business might be significantly affected if there are any changes in the PRC laws or regulations in relation to these businesses. For example, the PRC government has issued a new law to implement restrictions and further regulation on the online games industry. Based on these rules, online games companies are encouraged to install a so-called “anti-fatigue system”, which discourages the game participants from playing games for more than five hours per day. As a result, our online games business may be severely impacted and our revenues from online games may be adversely affected. We may not succeed in these markets despite our investment of time and funds. If we fail to achieve a significant market position, we will fail to realize our anticipated returns on these investments. Our strategy of acquiring complementary assets, technologies and businesses may fail and result in equity or earnings dilution. As a component of our growth strategy, we have acquired and intend to actively identify and acquire assets, technologies and businesses that are complementary to our existing portal business. Our acquisitions could result in the use of substantial amounts of cash, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, significant impairment losses related to goodwill or amortization expenses related to intangible assets and exposure to undisclosed or potential liabilities of acquired companies. Moreover, the resources expended in identifying and consummating acquisitions may be significant. Furthermore, any acquisition we decide to pursue may be subject to the approval of the relevant PRC governmental authorities, as well as any applicable PRC rules and regulations. Considering the fast changing legal environment, our acquisition may be subject to government’s further scrutiny and the acquisition structures we used to adopt may be found to be inappropriate. The acquisition and integration of 17173.com, Focus.cn, Goodfeel and Go2Map create certain risks and uncertainties. We completed the acquisitions of 17173.com and Focus.cn in November 2003, the acquisition of Goodfeel in May 2004, and the acquisition of Go2Map in May 2005. As a result of these acquisitions, we continue to spend considerable time and effort in integrating into our company the employees, organization, customers and operations of 17173.com, Focus.cn, Goodfeel and Go2Map. Also, there can be no assurance that we will succeed in realizing the anticipated economic benefits of the acquisitions, including increased advertising, wireless and search revenues. During the year ended December 31, 2005, Go2Map was operating at a loss. In addition, we might be required to obtain additional licenses or approvals from relevant government authorities based on the application laws and regulations and might incur additional costs and expenses in obtaining any such licenses and approvals. We may be required to record a charge to earnings if we must reassess our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets arising from acquisitions. We are required under generally accepted accounting principles to review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, and slower growth rates in our industry. We may be required to record a charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined. As of December 31, 2005, our goodwill and amortizable intangible assets arising from acquisitions were approximately $59 million. Our failure to manage growth and diversify of our business could harm us. We have experienced dramatic growth in personnel since our inception and we expect to continue to hire additional personnel in selected areas. This growth requires significant time and resource commitments from us and our senior management. If we are unable to effectively manage a large and geographically dispersed group of employees or anticipate our future growth, our business could be adversely affected. 23 Table of Contents Additionally, our business relies on our financial reporting and data systems (including our systems for billing users of our fee-based services), which have grown increasingly complex in the recent past due to acquisitions and the diversification and complexity of our business. Our ability to operate our business efficiently depends on these systems and if we are unable to adapt to these changes, our business could be adversely affected. If we fail to establish and maintain relationships with content and technology providers and mobile network operators, we may not be able to attract and retain users. We rely on a number of third party relationships to attract traffic and provide content in order to make our Websites more attractive to users and advertisers. Some content providers have increased the fees they charge us for their content. This trend could increase our operating expenses and could adversely affect our ability to obtain content at an economically acceptable cost. Most of our arrangements with content providers are short-term and may be terminated at the convenience of the other party. In addition, much of the third party content provided to our Websites is also available from other sources or may be provided to other Internet companies. If other Internet companies present the same or similar content in a superior manner, it would adversely affect our visitor traffic and we may lose certain exclusive deals when they are up for renewal. Our business also depends significantly on relationships with leading technology and infrastructure providers and the licenses that the technology providers have granted to us. Our competitors may establish the same relationships as we have, which may adversely affect us. We may not be able to maintain these relationships or replace them on commercially attractive terms. We depend on key personnel and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose the services of our key executives and employees. Our future success is heavily dependent upon the continued service of our key executives, particularly Dr. Charles Zhang, who is the founder, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board, and a major shareholder of our company and of the direct and indirect majority shareholder of Beijing Sohu, High Century, Sohu Internet, Tu Xing Tian Xia and Feng Yang Tian Lang. We rely on his expertise in our business operations, and on his personal relationships with the relevant regulatory authorities, our customers and suppliers. If one or more of our key executives and employees are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to easily replace them and our business may be severely disrupted. In addition, if any of our key executives or employees joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose customers and suppliers and incur additional expenses to recruit and train personnel. Both executive officers have entered into an employment agreement and a confidentiality, non-competition and non-solicitation agreement with us. However, the degree of protection afforded to an employer pursuant to confidentiality and non-competition undertakings governed by PRC law may be more limited when compared to the degree of protection afforded under the laws of other jurisdictions. We do not maintain key-man life insurance for any of our key executives. We also rely on a number of key technology staff for the operation of Sohu. Given the competitive nature of the industry, the risk of key technology staff leaving Sohu is high and could have a disruptive impact on our operations. Rapid growth and a rapidly changing operating environment strain our limited resources. We have limited operational, administrative and financial resources, which may be inadequate to sustain the growth we want to achieve. As the demands of our audience and the needs of our customers change and as the number of our users and volume of online advertising, wireless and e-commerce activities increase, we will need to increase our investment in our network infrastructure, facilities and other areas of operations. If we are unable to manage our growth and expansion effectively, the quality of our services could deteriorate and our business may suffer. Our future success will depend on, among other things, our ability to: • adapt our services and maintain and improve the quality of our services; • protect our Website from hackers and unauthorized access; • continue training, motivating and retaining our existing employees and attract and integrate new employees; and • develop and improve our operational, financial, accounting and other internal systems and controls. Risks Related to China’s Telecommunications infrastructure The telecommunications infrastructure in China, which is not as well developed as in the United States, may limit our growth. The telecommunications infrastructure in China is not well developed. Our growth will depend on the PRC government and state-owned enterprises establishing and maintaining a reliable Internet and telecommunications infrastructure to reach a broader base of Internet users in China. The Internet infrastructure, standards, protocols and complementary products, services and facilities necessary to support the demands associated with continued growth may not be developed on a timely basis or at all by the PRC government and state-owned enterprises. 24 Table of Contents We depend on ChinaNet, China Netcom and China Telecom for telecommunications services, and any interruption in these services may result in severe disruptions to our business. Although private Internet service providers exist in China, almost all access to the Internet is maintained through ChinaNet, currently owned by China Netcom and China Telecom, under the administrative control and regulatory supervision of the Ministry of Information Industry (or MII). In addition, local networks connect to the Internet through a government-owned international gateway. This international gateway is the only channel through which a domestic Chinese user can connect to the international Internet network. We rely on this infrastructure and China Netcom and China Telecom to provide data communications capacity primarily through local telecommunications lines. Although the government has announced aggressive plans to develop the national information infrastructure, this infrastructure may not be developed and the Internet infrastructure in China may not be able to support the continued growth of Internet usage. In addition, we will have no access to alternative networks and services, on a timely basis if at all, in the event of any infrastructure disruption or failure. We have signed Bandwidth Provision and Server Hosting Agreements with China Netcom and China Telecom. Under these agreements, we established two main service provision centers to maintain most of our servers in Beijing. However, as there are limited telecommunication infrastructure service providers, we may not be able to lease additional bandwidth on acceptable terms, on a timely basis, or at all. If we are not able to lease additional bandwidth, the development of our business can be affected. The high cost of Internet access may limit the growth of the Internet in China and impede our growth. Access to the Internet in China remains relatively expensive, and may make it less likely for users to access and transact business over the Internet. Unfavorable rate developments could further decrease our visitor traffic and our ability to derive revenues from transactions over the Internet. To the extent we are unable to scale our systems to meet the increasing PRC Internet population, we will be unable to expand our user base and increase our attractiveness to advertisers and merchants. As Web page volume and traffic increase in China, we may not be able to scale our systems proportionately. To the extent we do not successfully address our capacity constraints, our operations may be severely disrupted, and we may not be able to expand our user base and increase our attractiveness to advertisers and merchants. Unexpected network interruptions caused by system failures may result in reduced visitor traffic, reduced revenue and harm to our reputation. Our Website operations are dependent upon Web browsers, Internet service providers, content providers and other Website operators in China, which have experienced significant system failures and system outages in the past. Our users have in the past experienced difficulties due to system failures unrelated to our systems and services. Any system failure or inadequacy that causes interruptions in the availability of our services, or increases the response time of our services, as a result of increased traffic or otherwise, could reduce our user satisfaction, future traffic and our attractiveness to users and advertisers. Our operations are vulnerable to natural disasters and other events, as we only have limited backup systems and do not maintain any backup servers outside of China. We have limited backup systems and have experienced system failures and electrical outages from time to time in the past, which have disrupted our operations. Most of our servers and routers are currently hosted in a single location within the premises of Beijing Telecom Administration (or BTA). We do not have a disaster recovery plan in the event of damage from fire, floods, typhoons, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events. If any of the foregoing occurs, we may experience a complete system shutdown. We do not carry any business interruption insurance. To improve the performance and to prevent disruption of our services, we may have to make substantial investments to deploy additional servers or one or more copies of our Websites to mirror our online resources. Although we carry property insurance with low coverage limits, our coverage may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses, particularly with respect to loss of business and reputation, that may occur. 25 Table of Contents Our network operations may be vulnerable to hacking, viruses and other disruptions, which may make our products and services less attractive and reliable. Internet usage could decline if any well-publicized compromise of security occurs. “Hacking” involves efforts to gain unauthorized access to information or systems or to cause intentional malfunctions or loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment. Hackers, if successful, could misappropriate proprietary information or cause disruptions in our service. We may be required to expend capital and other resources to protect our Website against hackers. We cannot assure you that any measures we may take will be effective. In addition, the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could expose us to a material risk of loss or litigation and possible liability, as well as materially damage our reputation and decrease our user traffic. Risks Related to China’s Regulation Environment If our current ownership structure is found to be in violation of current or future PRC laws, rules or regulations regarding the legality of foreign investment in the PRC Internet sector, we could be subject to severe penalties. We conduct our Internet and value-added telecommunication operations solely in the PRC through our indirect wholly owned subsidiaries, Beijing ITC, Sohu Era, Sohu Software and Go2Map Software (or collectively PRC subsidiaries), and VIEs Beijing Sohu, High Century, Hengda, Sohu Internet, Goodfeel, Huohu, Tu Xing Tian Xia, Feng Yang Tian Lang and Sogou Information (or collectively VIEs). We are a Delaware corporation, while Sohu Hong Kong, our indirect wholly owned subsidiary and the parent company of Beijing ITC, Sohu Era, Sohu Software and Go2Map Software is a Hong Kong corporation and a foreign person under PRC law. In order to meet ownership requirements under PRC law which restrict or prohibit wholly foreign owned enterprises, or WFOEs, from operating in certain industries such as Internet information, wireless, Internet access, e-commerce and certain other industries, our VIEs are companies incorporated in the PRC and owned by Dr. Zhang and certain other employees of Sohu, rather than by Sohu. The PRC began several years ago to regulate its Internet sector by making pronouncements or enacting regulations regarding the legality of foreign investment in the PRC Internet sector and the existence and enforcement of content restrictions on the Internet. We believe that our current ownership structure complies with all existing PRC laws, rules and regulations. There are, however, substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation of current PRC Internet laws and regulations. In addition, new PRC Internet and foreign exchange laws and regulations were recently adopted. Accordingly, it is possible that the PRC government may ultimately take a view contrary to ours. In addition, under the agreement reached in November 1999 between the PRC and the United States concerning the United States’ support of China’s entry into the World Trade Organization, or WTO, foreign investment in PRC Internet services are to be liberalized to allow for 30% foreign ownership in key telecommunication services, including PRC Internet ventures, for the first year after China’s entry into the WTO, 49% in the second year and 50% thereafter. China officially entered the WTO on December 11, 2001. However, the implementation of China’s WTO accession agreements is still subject to various conditions. Accordingly, it is possible that the relevant PRC authorities could, at any time, assert that any portion or all of the Sohu PRC subsidiaries’ and Sohu VIEs’ existing or future ownership structure and businesses violate existing or future PRC laws, regulations or policies. It is also possible that the new laws or regulations governing the PRC Internet sector that have been adopted or may be adopted in the future will prohibit or restrict foreign investment in, or other aspects of, any of our PRC subsidiaries and VIEs current or proposed businesses and operations. In addition, any such new laws and regulations may be retroactively applied to us and our PRC subsidiaries and VIEs. If we or any of our PRC subsidiaries and VIEs were found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, the relevant PRC authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such violation, including, without limitation, the following: • levying fines; • confiscating our income; • revoking our business licenses; • shutting down our servers and/or blocking our Websites; • requiring us to restructure its ownership structure or operations; and • requiring us to discontinue any portion or all of its Internet and value-added telecommunication businesses. 26 Table of Contents We may rely on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by Sohu.com Limited, our wholly owned subsidiary, to fund any cash requirements we may have. We may not be able to obtain cash from distributions to the extent such distributions are restricted by PRC law or future debt covenants. For any dividend received by Sohu.com Inc., it would be subject to US tax at 34% to 35%. We are a holding company with no operating assets other than investments in Chinese operating entities, including Beijing ITC, Sohu Era, Sohu Software and Go2Map Software, through an intermediate holding company, Sohu.com Limited, our wholly-owned subsidiary in the Cayman Islands, and our VIEs, Beijing Sohu, High Century, Hengda, Sohu Internet, Goodfeel, Huohu, Tu Xing Tian Xia, Feng Yang Tian Lang and Sogou Information. We may need to rely on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by Sohu.com Limited for our cash requirements in excess of any cash raised from investors and retained by us. If Beijing ITC, Sohu Era, Sohu Software and Go2Map Software incur debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict Beijing ITC’s, Sohu Era’s, Sohu Software’s and Go2Map Software’s ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. In addition, PRC legal restrictions permit payment of dividends by Beijing ITC, Sohu Era, Sohu Software and Go2Map Software only out of their net income, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Under PRC law, Beijing ITC, Sohu Era, Sohu Software and Go2Map Software are also required to set aside 10% of their net income each year to fund certain reserve funds until these reserves equal 50% of the amount of paid-in capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. Furthermore, dividends received by Sohu.com Inc. would be subject to taxation at United States tax rates of 34% or 35%. We do not expect any dividends or other distributions on equity from Sohu.com Limited in the foreseeable future. We may be unable to collect long-term loans to officers and employees or exercise management influence associated with Beijing Sohu, High Century, Hengda, Goodfeel, Huohu and Sogou Information. As of December 31, 2005, Sohu had outstanding long-term loans of $9.8 million to Dr. Zhang, Sohu’s chief executive officer and a major Sohu shareholder, and certain of our employees. The long-term loans are used to finance investments in Beijing Sohu, which is owned 80% by Dr. Zhang and 20% by High Century, High Century, which are owned 80% by Dr. Zhang and 20% by an employee, Hengda, which is owned by two of our employees, Goodfeel, which is owned by two of our employees, Huohu, which is owned 75% by Sohu Era and 25% by an employee. Sogou Information, which is owned by two of our employees. Beijing Sohu, High Century, Hengda, Goodfeel, Huohu and Sogou Information are used to facilitate our participation in telecommunications, Internet content and certain other businesses in China where foreign ownership is either prohibited or restricted. The agreements contain provisions that, subject to PRC law, (i) the loans can only be repaid to us by transferring the shares of Beijing Sohu, High Century, Hengda, Goodfeel, Huohu or Sogou Information to us, (ii) the shares of Beijing Sohu, High Century, Hengda, Goodfeel, Huohu or Sogou Information cannot be transferred without our approval, and (iii) we have the right to appoint all directors and senior management personnel of Beijing Sohu, High Century, Hengda, Goodfeel, Huohu and Sogou Information. Dr. Zhang and the other employee borrowers have pledged all of their shares in Beijing Sohu, High Century, Hengda, Goodfeel, Huohu and Sogou Information as collateral for the loans and the loans bear no interest and are due on demand after November 2003, in the case of High Century, after June 2004, in the case of Huohu, after August 12, 2006, in the case of Sogou Information, after October 2006, in the case of Goodfeel, after November 3, 2006, in the case of Hengda and the earlier of a demand or 2010, in the case of Beijing Sohu, or, in any case, at such time as Dr. Zhang or the other employee borrowers, as the case may be, is not an employee of Sohu. Sohu does not intend to request repayment of the loans as long as PRC regulations prohibit it from directly investing in businesses being undertaken by the VIEs. Because these loans can only be repaid by the borrowers’ transferring the shares of the various entities, our ability to ultimately realize the effective return of the amounts advanced under these loans will depend on the profitability of Beijing Sohu, High Century, Hengda, Goodfeel, Huohu and Sogou Information which is uncertain. Furthermore, because of uncertainties associated with the PRC law, ultimate enforcement of the loan agreements is uncertain. Accordingly, we may never be able to collect these loans or exercise influence over Beijing Sohu, High Century, Hengda, Goodfeel, Huohu and Sogou Information. 27 Table of Contents We depend upon contractual arrangements with Beijing Sohu, Hengda, High Century, Sohu Internet, Goodfeel, Huohu, Tu Xing Tian Xia, Feng Yang Tian Lang and Sogou Information for the success of our business and these arrangements may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct ownership of these businesses and may be difficult to enforce. Because we conduct our Internet operations only in the PRC, and are restricted or prohibited by the PRC government from owning Internet content or telecommunication operations in the PRC, we are dependent on Beijing Sohu, Hengda, High Century, Sohu Internet, Goodfeel, Huohu, Tu Xing Tian Xia, Feng Yang Tian Lang and Sogou Information in which we have no direct ownership interest, to provide those services through contractual agreements between the parties. These arrangements may not be as effective in providing control over our Internet content or telecommunications operations as direct ownership of these businesses. For example, Beijing Sohu and Sohu Internet could fail to take actions required for our business, such as entering into content development contracts with potential content suppliers or failing to maintain the necessary permit for the content servers. If Beijing Sohu, Hengda, High Century, Sohu Internet, Goodfeel, Huohu, Tu Xing Tian Xia, Feng Yang Tian Lang and/or Sogou Information fail to perform its obligations under these agreements, we may have to rely on legal remedies under PRC law. We cannot assure you that such remedies under PRC law would be effective or sufficient. Dr. Zhang, our chief executive officer and a major shareholder of our company, is also the direct and indirect majority shareholder of Beijing Sohu, High Century, Sohu Internet, Tu Xing Tian Xia and Feng Yang Tian Lang. As a result, our contractual relationships with those companies could be viewed as entrenching his management position or transferring certain value to him, especially if any conflict with him arises. If we are found to be in violation of current or future PRC laws, rules or regulations regarding Internet-related services and telecom-related activities, we could be subject to severe penalties. The PRC has enacted regulations applying to Internet-related services and telecom-related activities. While many aspects of these regulations remain unclear, they purport to limit and require licensing of various aspects of the provision of Internet information, online advertising and value-added telecommunication services. In addition, the PRC may promulgate new laws, rules or regulations at any time. If these current or future laws, rules or regulations regarding Internet-related activities, are interpreted to be inconsistent with our ownership structure and/or our business operations, our business will be severely impaired and we could be subject to severe penalties. In addition, we may be required to apply for a new license or new qualification, or transfer from an old type of license to a new type of license at any time as a result of the requirements of newly promulgated laws or new regulations. From the promulgation of such requirement to the final issuance of the license or qualification, there might be a long pending period. Although the issuance of the new license will finally trace back to the date when filing such application, we may held liable for operating without proper license and may be fined for the operation during the application period. We may not be able to collect payments of our wireless fees if the PRC government determines that our existing ownership structure does not comply with PRC laws, rules or regulations. As discussed above, the PRC began several years ago to regulate its Internet sector by making pronouncements or enacting regulations regarding the legality of foreign investment in the PRC Internet sector. We believe that our current ownership structure complies with all existing PRC laws, rules and regulations. There are, however, substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation of current PRC Internet laws and regulations. It is possible that the PRC government will ultimately contrary to ours. If the PRC government were to take a contrary view, we might not be able to collect payments of our wireless fees, which we receive from Beijing Sohu, Sohu Internet and Goodfeel, which in turn collect the fees from mobile network operators. Even if we are in compliance with PRC governmental regulations relating to licensing and foreign investment prohibitions, the PRC government may prevent us from distributing, and we may be subject to liability for, content that it believes is inappropriate. The PRC has enacted regulations governing Internet access and the distribution of news and other information. In the past, the PRC government has stopped the distribution of information over the Internet that it believes to violate PRC law, including content that is obscene, incites violence, endangers national security, is contrary to the national interest or is defamatory. In addition, we may not publish certain news items, such as news relating to national security, without permission from the PRC government. Furthermore, the Ministry of Public Security has the authority to cause any local Internet service provider to block any Website maintained outside the PRC at its sole discretion. Even if we comply with PRC governmental regulations relating to licensing and foreign investment prohibitions, if the PRC government were to take any action to limit or prohibit the distribution of information through our network or to limit or regulate any current or future content or services available to users on our network, our business would be harmed. We are also subject to potential liability for content on our Websites that is deemed inappropriate and for any unlawful actions of our subscribers and other users of our systems under regulations promulgated by the MII. 28 Table of Contents Furthermore, we are required to delete content that clearly violates the laws of the PRC and report content that we suspect may violate PRC law. We may have difficulty determining the type of content that may result in liability for us and, if we are wrong, we may be prevented from operating our Websites. We may not have exclusive rights over the marks that are crucial to our business, including but not limited to “Sohu.com,” “Focus.cn,” “17173,” “Goodfeel”, “Sogou” and “Go2Map”. We have applied for the registration of our key marks in the PRC, including but not limited to Sohu.com, Focus.cn, 17173, Goodfeel, Sogou and Go2Map, so as to establish and protect our exclusive rights to the marks. We have succeeded in registering the marks “Sohu.com”, “Focus.cn” and “Go2Map” in the PRC under certain classes. The applications for the registration of the other marks or some marks under other classes are still under examination by the Trademark Office of PRC. Completion of the registrations is subject to the Trademark Office of PRC’s determination that there are no prior rights in the PRC. Any rejection of these applications could adversely affect our rights to these marks. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties, and the expenses incurred in protecting our intellectual property rights, may adversely affect our business. We regard our copyrights, service marks, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property as critical to our success. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties may adversely affect our business and reputation. We rely on trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements with our employees, customers, business partners and others to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for third parties to obtain and use our intellectual property without authorization. Furthermore, the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property in Internet-related industries are uncertain and still evolving. In particular, the laws of the PRC and certain other countries are uncertain or do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Moreover, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Future litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims, which may force us to incur substantial legal expenses and, if determined adversely against us, materially disrupt our business. We cannot be certain that our products, services and intellectual property used in our normal course of business do not or will not infringe valid patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. We have in the past been, are currently, and may in the future be, subject to claims and legal proceedings relating to the intellectual property of others in the ordinary course of our business. In particular, if we are found to have violated the intellectual property rights of others, we may be enjoined from using such intellectual property, may be ordered to pay a fine and may incur licensing fees or be forced to develop alternatives. We may incur substantial expenses in defending against these third party infringement claims, regardless of their merit. Successful infringement claims against us may result in substantial monetary liability or may materially disrupt the conduct of our business by restricting or prohibiting our use of the intellectual property in question. In addition, we provide search engine facilities capable of locating and accessing links to download MP3 music, movies, images and other multimedia files and/or other content hosted on third party Websites, which may be protected by law. In a recent judgment in China, which has not come into effect yet, a court has found that one of the industry participants infringed the rights of copyright owners for its MP3 search services and ordered it to pay compensation. This judgment has increased our exposure to copyright infringement and therefore, we may face increasing amounts of claims or lawsuits relating to our MP3 services. We may be subject to, and may expend significant resources in defending against claims based on the content and services we provide over all of our Websites. As our services may be used to download and distribute information to others, there is a risk that claims may be made against us for defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement or other claims based on the nature and content of such information. Furthermore, we could be subject to claims for the online activities of our visitors and incur significant costs in their defense. In the past, claims based on the nature and content of information that was posted online by visitors have been made in the United States against companies that provide online services. We do not carry any liability insurance against such risks. We could be exposed to liability for the selection of listings that may be accessible through our Websites or through content and materials that our visitors may post in classifieds, message boards, chat rooms or other interactive services. If any information provided through our services contains errors, third parties may make claims against us for losses incurred in reliance on the information. We also offer Web-based e-mail and subscription services, which exposes us to potential liabilities or claims resulting from: • unsolicited e-mail; 29 Table of Contents • lost or misdirected messages; • illegal or fraudulent use of e-mail; or • interruptions or delays in e-mail service. Investigating and defending any such claims may be expensive, even if they do not result in liability. Activities of Internet content providers are or will be subject to additional PRC regulations, which have not yet been put into effect. Our operations may not be consistent with these new regulations when put into effect, and, as a result, we could be subject to severe penalties. The MII has stated that the activities of Internet content providers are subject to regulation by various PRC government authorities, depending on the specific activities conducted by the Internet content provider. Various government authorities have stated publicly that they are in the process of preparing new laws and regulations that will govern these activities. The areas of regulation currently include online advertising, online news reporting, online publishing, online securities trading and the provision of industry-specific (e.g., drug-related) information over the Internet. Other aspects of our online operations may be subject to regulations in the future. Our operations may not be consistent with these new regulations when put into effect and, as a result, we may be subject to severe penalties as discussed above. Regulation and censorship of information distribution in China may adversely affect our business. China has enacted regulations governing Internet access and the distribution of news and other information. Furthermore, the Propaganda Department of the Chinese Communist Party has been given the responsibility to censor news published in China to ensure, supervise and control a particular political ideology. In addition, the MII has published implementing regulations that subject online information providers to potential liability for contents included in their portals and the actions of subscribers and others using their systems, including liability for violation of PRC laws prohibiting the distribution of content deemed to be socially destabilizing. Because many PRC laws, regulations and legal requirements with regard to the Internet are relatively new and untested, their interpretation and enforcement may involve significant uncertainty. In addition, the PRC legal system is a civil law system in which decided legal cases have limited binding force as legal precedents. As a result, in many cases a Website operator may have difficulties determining the type of content that may subject it to liability. Periodically, the Ministry of Public Security has stopped the distribution over the Internet of information which it believes to be socially destabilizing. The Ministry of Public Security has the authority to cause any local Internet service provider to block any Website maintained outside China at its sole discretion. If the PRC government were to take action to limit or eliminate the distribution of information through our portal or to limit or regulate current or future applications available to users of our portal, our business would be adversely affected. The State Secrecy Bureau, which is directly responsible for the protection of state secrets of all PRC government and Chinese Communist Party organizations, is authorized to block any Website it deems to be leaking state secrets or failing to meet the relevant regulations relating to the protection of state secrets in the distribution of online information. Under the applicable regulations, we may be held liable for any content transmitted on our portal. Furthermore, where the transmitted content clearly violates the laws of the PRC, we will be required to delete it. Moreover, if we consider transmitted content suspicious, we are required to report such content. We must also undergo computer security inspections, and if we fail to implement the relevant safeguards against security breaches, we may be shut down. In addition, under recently adopted regulations, Internet companies which provide bulletin board systems, chat rooms or similar services, such as our company, must apply for the approval of the State Secrecy Bureau. As the implementing rules of these new regulations have not been issued, we do not know how or when we will be expected to comply, or how our business will be affected by the application of these regulations. Political and economic policies of the PRC government could affect our business. All of our business, operating assets, fixed assets and operations are located in China and all of our revenues are derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our business may be adversely affected by changes in political, economic or social conditions in China, adjustments in PRC government policies or changes in laws and regulations. The economy of China differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in a number of respects, including: • structure; 30 Table of Contents • level of government involvement; • level of development; • level of capital reinvestment; • growth rate; • control of foreign exchange; and • methods of allocating resources. Since 1949, China has been primarily a planned economy subject to a system of macroeconomic management. Although the Chinese government still owns a significant portion of the productive assets in China, economic reform policies since the late 1970s have emphasized decentralization, autonomous enterprises and the utilization of market mechanisms. We cannot predict what effects the economic reform and macroeconomic measures adopted by the Chinese government may have on our business or results of operations. The PRC legal system embodies uncertainties which could limit the legal protections available to us and you, or could lead to penalties on us. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. Our PRC operating subsidiaries, Beijing ITC and Sohu Era, are wholly-foreign owned enterprises, or WFOEs, which are enterprises incorporated in mainland China and wholly-owned by our indirect subsidiary, Sohu Hong Kong. Beijing ITC and Sohu Era are subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in mainland China. In addition, all of our subsidiaries and VIEs are incorporated in China and subject to all applicable Chinese laws and regulation. Because of the relatively short period for enacting such a comprehensive legal system, it is possible that the laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us and other foreign investors, including you, and may lead to penalties imposed on us because of the different understanding between the relevant authority and us. For example, according to current tax laws and regulation, we are responsible to pay business tax on a “Self-examination and Self-application” basis. However, since there is no clear guidance as to the applicability of those preferential treatments, we may be found in violation of the interpretation of local tax authorities with regard to the scope of taxable services and the percentage of tax rate and therefore might be subject to penalties, including but not limited to monetary penalties. In addition, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the PRC legal system, particularly with regard to the Internet, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. It may be difficult to enforce any civil judgments against us or our board of directors or officers, because most of our operating and/or fixed assets are located outside of the United States. Although we are incorporated in the State of Delaware, most of our operating and fixed assets are located in the PRC. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to enforce judgments outside the United States obtained in actions brought against us in the United States, including actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States or of the securities laws of any state of the United States. In addition, certain of our directors and officers (principally based in the PRC) and all or a substantial portion of their assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon those directors and officers, or to enforce against them or us judgments obtained in United States courts, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States or of the securities laws of any state of the United States. We have been advised by our PRC counsel that, in their opinion, there is doubt as to the enforceability in the PRC, in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of United States courts, of civil liabilities predicated solely upon the federal securities laws of the United States or the securities laws of any state of the United States. If tax benefits presently available to certain of our subsidiaries and VIEs located in China were not available, the income tax rate on most of our profits in China could increase to 33%. Our China-based subsidiary Sohu Era and our VIE Sohu Internet enjoy tax benefits which are available to “new technology enterprises.” Presently, PRC law requires that a company, in order to be considered a “new technology enterprise”: (i) operate in the high-tech industry (which includes the Internet industry); (ii) be incorporated and operating in High and New Technology Development Zones, including Beijing Zhongguancun Science Park; (iii) receive 60% of its revenue from high-tech products or services; and (iv) have at least 20% of its employees involved in technology development. Each year new technology enterprises are subject to annual inspection to determine whether they continue to meet these requirements. 31 Table of Contents Subject to the approval of the relevant tax authorities, the effective income tax rate for new technology enterprises registered and operating in Beijing Zhongguancun Science Park is 15%, while the local income tax will be exempted as long as the enterprise holds the new technology enterprise status. New technology enterprises are exempted from Chinese state corporate income tax for three years, beginning with their first year of operations, and are entitled to a 50% tax reduction at the rate of 7.5% for the subsequent three years. Providing there is no change in the new technology enterprise status or change in relevant regulations, most of the major operating subsidiaries in the PRC will be subject to an applicable tax rate of 7.5% in 2006, 2007 and 2008 and 15% thereafter. For these tax benefits to no longer be available, there would need to be a change in governmental policy or the governmental regulations concerning requirements necessary to be deemed a new technology enterprise, or we would have to be unable to meet the existing new technology enterprise requirements. If we did not meet the requirements of a new technology enterprise, we may be subject to enterprise income tax in China at rates up to 33%, which could cause a significant reduction in our after-tax income. Our subsidiaries and VIEs in China are subject to restrictions on paying dividends or making other payments to our overseas entities. We are a holding company and do not have any assets or conduct any business operations in China other than our investments in our Chinese subsidiaries and VIEs. As a result, we depend on dividend payments from our subsidiaries in China after they receive payments from our VIEs under various services and other arrangements. It is possible that our Chinese subsidiaries will not continue to receive the payments in accordance with our contracts with our VIEs. To the extent that the VIEs have undistributed after tax net income, we must pay tax on behalf of our employees who hold interests in the VIEs when the VIEs distribute dividends in the future. The current dividend tax rate is 20%. In addition, under PRC law, our subsidiaries are only allowed to pay dividends to us out of their accumulated profits, if any, as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Moreover, our Chinese subsidiaries are required to set aside at least 10% of their respective accumulated profits, if any, up to 50% of their registered capital to fund certain mandated reserve funds that are not payable or distributable as cash dividends. The PRC government also imposes controls on the convertibility of Renminbi (or RMB) into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currencies out of China. We may experience difficulties in completing the administrative procedures necessary to obtain and remit foreign currencies. If we or any of our subsidiaries are unable to receive all of the revenues from our operations through these contractual or dividend arrangements, we may be unable to effectively finance our operations or pay dividends on our shares. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize our revenues effectively. Substantially all of our revenues and operating expenses are denominated in RMB. The RMB is currently freely convertible under the “current account”, which includes dividends, trade and service related foreign exchange transactions, but not under the “capital account”, which includes foreign direct investment. Currently, Beijing ITC or Sohu Era may purchase foreign exchange for settlement of “current account transactions”, including payment of dividends, without the approval of the State Administration for Foreign Exchange (or SAFE). Beijing ITC or Sohu Era may also retain foreign exchange in its current account (subject to a ceiling approved by the SAFE) to satisfy foreign exchange liabilities or to pay dividends. However, the relevant PRC governmental authorities may limit or eliminate our ability to purchase and retain foreign currencies in the future. Since a significant amount of our future revenues will be in the form of RMB, the existing and any future restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize revenue generated in RMB to fund our business activities outside China, if any, or expenditures denominated in foreign currencies. Foreign exchange transactions under the capital account are still subject to limitations and require approvals from the SAFE. This could affect Beijing ITC’s or Sohu Era’s ability to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing, including by means of loans or capital contributions from us. 32 Table of Contents We may suffer currency exchange losses if the RMB depreciates relative to the US Dollar. Our reporting currency is the US Dollar. However, substantially all of revenues are denominated in RMB. In July 2005, China reformed its exchange rate regime by establishing a managed floating exchange rate regime based on market supply and demand with reference to a basket of currencies. RMB is no longer be pegged to the US dollars and the exchange rate will have some flexibility. Hence, considering the floating exchange rate regime, if the RMB depreciates relative to the US Dollar, our revenues as expressed in our US Dollar financial statements will decline in value. In addition, there are very limited hedging transactions available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure, if at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert RMB into US Dollars. The market price of our common stock has been and will likely continue to be volatile. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, which may make it difficult for stockholders to sell shares of our common stock when desired or at attractive prices. The market price of our common stock has been volatile and is likely to continue to be so. The initial public offering price of our common stock in July 2000 was $13.00 per share. The trading price of our common stock subsequently dropped to a low of $0.52 per share on April 9, 2001. During 2004, the trading price of our common stock ranged from a low of $13.56 per share to a high of $40.15 per share, and during 2005, the trading price of our common stock ranged from a low of $14.66 per share to a high of $23.74 per share. On February 22, 2006, the closing price of our common stock was $22.33 per share. In addition, the Nasdaq Stock Market’s National Market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for the securities of technology companies, and particularly Internet-related companies. The price for our common stock may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new products and media properties by us or our competitors, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us, and news reports relating to trends in our markets or general economic conditions. Additionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, all of whom have been granted stock options or other stock awards. We issued $90.0 million of zero coupon convertible senior notes due July 2023 which we may not be able to repay in cash and could result in dilution of our earnings per share. In July 2003, we issued $90 million aggregate principal amount of zero coupon convertible senior notes due July 2023. The notes are convertible into our common stock at a conversion price of $44.76 per share, subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of specified events, which would result in the issuance of an aggregate of approximately two million shares. Therefore, each $1,000 principal amount of the notes will initially be convertible into 22.3414 shares of our common stock. Each holder of the notes will have the right, at the holder’s option, to require Sohu to repurchase all or any portion of the principal amount of the holder’s notes on July 14 in 2007, 2013 and 2018 at a price equal to 100% of the outstanding principal amount. During the year ended December 31, 2005, we had repurchased a portion of our zero coupon convertible senior notes with face value of $15,220,000 from market. We may also be required to repurchase all of the outstanding notes following a fundamental change of Sohu, such as a change of control, prior to maturity. We may not have enough cash on hand or the ability to access cash to pay the notes if presented for redemption on a fundamental change, on a redemption date referred to above or at maturity. In addition, the redemption or purchase of our notes with shares of our common stock or the conversion of the notes into our common stock could result in a reduction of our earnings per share. We are controlled by a small group of our existing stockholders, whose interests may differ from other stockholders. Our chief executive officer, Dr. Charles Zhang, beneficially owns approximately 26.5% of the outstanding shares of our common stock and is our largest stockholder. Our chief executive officer, together with our other executive officers and members of our Board of Directors, beneficially own approximately 29.5% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Accordingly these stockholders acting together will have significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the stockholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations, the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. They will also have significant influence in preventing or causing a change in control. In addition, without the consent of these stockholders, we may be prevented from entering into transactions that could be beneficial to us. The interests of these stockholders may differ from the interests of the other stockholders. 33 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, our certificate of incorporation and Sohu’s Stockholder Rights Plan could delay or deter a change in control. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, as well as various provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, may make it more difficult to acquire our company or effect a change in control of our company, even if an acquisition or change in control would be in the interest of our stockholders or if an acquisition or change in control would provide our stockholders with a premium for their shares over then current market prices. For example, our certificate of incorporation provides for the division of the board of directors into two classes with staggered two-year terms and provides that stockholders have no right to take action by written consent and may not call special meetings of stockholders, each of which may make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our board in connection with, or obtain any necessary stockholder approval for, a proposed acquisition or change in control. In addition, we have adopted a stockholder rights plan under the terms of which, in general, if a person or group acquires more than 20% of the outstanding shares of common stock, all other Sohu stockholders would have the right to purchase securities from Sohu at a substantial discount to those securities’ fair market value, thus causing substantial dilution to the holdings of the person or group which acquires more than 20%. The stockholder rights plan may inhibit a change in control and, therefore, could adversely affect the stockholders’ ability to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for the common stock in connection with such a transaction. The power of our Board of Directors to designate and issue shares of preferred stock could have an adverse effect on holders of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to designate and issue one or more series of preferred stock, having rights and preferences as the board may determine, and any such designations and issuances could have an adverse effect on the rights of holders of common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 