ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. This report contains forward-looking statements regarding our business and expected future performance as well as assumptions underlying or relating to such statements of expectation, all of which are “forward looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We are subject to many risks and uncertainties that may materially affect our business and future performance and cause those forward-looking statements to be inaccurate. Words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “forecasts,” “estimates,” “seeks,” “may result in,” “focused on,” “continue to,” and similar expressions often identify forward-looking statements. In this report, forward-looking statements include, without limitation, statements regarding the following: ● Our expectations and beliefs regarding future financial results; ● Our expectations regarding partners, renewal of contracts with these partners and the anticipated timing and magnitude of revenue from programs with these partners; ● Our ability to successfully license, implement and support our Nexus SaaS offering; ● Our expectations regarding sales of our end-user software products, and our ability to source, develop and distribute enhanced versions of these products; ● Our ability to successfully monetize customers who receive free versions of our end-user software products; ● Our ability to expand and diversify our customer base; ● Our ability to execute effectively in the small business market; ● Our ability to offer subscriptions to our services in a profitable manner; ● Our expectations regarding our ability to deliver technology services efficiently and through arrangements that are profitable, including both in SKU-based and time-based pricing models and other pricing models we may employ; ● Our ability to attract and retain qualified management and employees; ● Our ability to hire, train, manage and retain technology specialists in a home-based model in quantities sufficient to meet forecast requirements, and our ability to continue to enhance the flexibility of our staffing model; ● Our ability to match staffing levels with service volume in a cost-effective manner; ● Our ability to manage contract labor as a component of our workforce; ● Our ability to operate successfully in a time-based billing model; ● Our ability to adapt to changes in the market for technology support services; ● Our ability to manage sales costs in programs where we are responsible for sales; ● Our ability to successfully manage advertising costs associated with our end-user software products; ● Our beliefs and expectations regarding the introduction of new services and products, including additional software products and service offerings for devices beyond computers and routers; ● Our expectations regarding revenues, cash flows and expenses, including cost of revenue, sales and marketing, research and development efforts, and administrative expenses; 8 Table of Contents ● Our assessment of seasonality, mix of revenue, and other trends for our business and the business of our partners; ● Our ability to deliver projected levels of profitability; ● Our expectations regarding the costs and other effects of acquisition and disposition transactions; ● Our expectations regarding unit volumes, pricing and other factors in the market for computers and other technology devices, and the effects of such factors on our business; ● Our ability to successfully operate in markets that are subject to extensive regulation, such as support for home security systems; ● Our expectations regarding the results of pending, threatened or future litigation; ● The assumptions underlying our Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates, including our assumptions regarding revenue recognition; assumptions used to estimate the fair value of stock-based compensation; assumptions regarding the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets; and expected accounting for income taxes; and ● The expected effects of the adoption of new accounting standards. An investment in our stock involves risk, and we caution investors that forward-looking statements are only predictions based on our current expectations about future events and are not guarantees of future performance. We encourage you to read carefully all information provided in this report and in our other filings with the SEC before deciding to invest in our stock or to maintain or change your investment. Forward-looking statements are based on information as of the filing date of this report, and we undertake no obligation to publicly revise or update any forward-looking statement for any reason. Because forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from our stated expectations. A number of these factors are described below; provided, however that this list does not include all risks that could affect our business. If these or any other risks or uncertainties materialize, or if our underlying assumptions prove to be inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and from our expected future results. Recently, our business has not been profitable and may not achieve profitability in future periods. Through the fourth quarter of 2013, we delivered six consecutive quarters of profitability. Since then we have sustained significant changes in our largest partner program that materially affect our revenue and margins. We also are making significant investments in support of our Nexus SaaS offering, and expect to continue to experience periods of losses in the future. If we fail to achieve revenue growth as a result of our additional investments and efforts, or if such revenue growth does not result in our achieving profitability, the market price of our common stock will likely decline. A period of losses normally results in usage of cash to fund our operating activities and a corresponding reduction in our cash balance. Our business is based on a relatively new and evolving business model. We are executing a plan to grow our business by providing technology support services, licensing our Nexus SaaS product, and providing end-user consumer software products. We may not be able to offer these services and software products successfully. Our technology specialists are generally home-based, which requires a high degree of coordination and quality control of employees working from diverse and remote locations. We experience financial losses in our business and we may use cash and incur losses in the future to support our growth initiatives. Our investments, which typically are made in advance of revenue, may not yield increased revenue to offset these expenses. As a result of these factors, the future revenue and income potential of our business is uncertain. Any evaluation of our business and our prospects must be considered in light of these factors and the risks and uncertainties often encountered by companies in our stage of development. Some of these risks and uncertainties relate to our ability to do the following: ● Maintain our current relationships and service programs, and develop new relationships, with service partners and licensees of Nexus SaaS offering on acceptable terms or at all; ● Reach prospective customers for our software products in a cost-effective fashion; 9 Table of Contents ● Reduce our dependence on a limited number of partners for a substantial majority of our revenue; ● Successfully license our Nexus SaaS offering; ● Attract and retain qualified management and employees in competitive markets for talent; ● Hire, train, manage and retain our home-based technology specialists and enhance the flexibility of our staffing model in a cost-effective fashion and in quantities sufficient to meet forecast requirements; ● Manage substantial headcount changes over short periods of time; ● Manage contract labor efficiently and effectively; ● Meet revenue targets; ● Maintain gross and operating margins; ● Match staffing levels with demand for services and forecast requirements; ● Obtain bonuses and avoid penalties in contractual arrangements; ● Operate successfully in a time-based pricing model; ● Operate effectively in the small business market; ● Offer subscriptions to our services in a profitable manner; ● Successfully introduce new, and adapt our existing, services and products for consumers and businesses; ● Respond effectively to changes in the market for technology support services; ● Respond effectively to changes in the online advertising markets in which we participate; ● Respond effectively to competition; ● Respond to changes in macroeconomic conditions as they affect our and our partners’ operations; ● Realize benefits of any acquisitions we make; ● Adapt to changes in the markets we serve, including the decline in sales of personal computers, the proliferation of tablets and other mobile devices and the introduction of new devices into the connected home and the “Internet of Things”; ● Adapt to changes in our industry, including consolidation; ● Respond to government regulations relating to our current and future business; ● Manage and respond to present, threatened, and future litigation; and ● Manage our expanding operations and implement and improve our operational, financial and management controls. If we are unable to address these risks, our business, results of operations and prospects could suffer. Our quarterly results have in the past, and may in the future, fluctuate significantly. Our quarterly revenue and operating results have in the past and may in the future fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. As a result, we believe that quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year comparisons of our revenue and operating results may not be accurate indicators of future performance. Several factors that have contributed or may in the future contribute to fluctuations in our operating results include: ● Demand for our services and products; ● The performance of our partners; ● Change in or discontinuance of our principal programs with partners; ● Our reliance on a small number of partners for a substantial majority of our revenue; ● Instability or decline in the global macroeconomic climate and its effect on our and our partners’ operations; ● Our ability to successfully license our Nexus SaaS offering; ● The availability and cost-effectiveness of advertising placements for our software products and our ability to respond to changes in the online advertising markets in which we participate; ● Our ability to serve the small business market; ● Our ability to attract and retain qualified management and employees in competitive markets; ● The efficiency and effectiveness of our technology specialists; ● Our ability to effectively match staffing levels with service volumes on a cost-effective basis; ● Our ability to manage contract labor; ● Our ability to hire, train, manage and retain our home-based technology specialists and enhance the flexibility of our staffing model in a cost-effective fashion and in quantities sufficient to meet forecast requirements; ● Our ability to manage substantial headcount changes over short periods of time; ● Our ability to manage sales costs in programs where we are responsible for sales; ● Our ability to operate successfully in a time-based pricing model; ● Our ability to attract and retain partners; ● The price and mix of products and services we or our competitors offer; 10 Table of Contents ● Pricing levels and structures in the market for technology support services; ● Our ability to successfully monetize customers who receive free versions of our consumer software; ● Usage rates on the subscriptions we offer; ● The rate of expansion of our offerings and our investments therein; ● Changes in the markets for computers and other technology devices relating to unit volume, pricing and other factors, including changes driven by declines in sales of personal computers and the growing popularity of tablets, and other mobile devices and the introduction of new devices into the connected home; ● Our ability to adapt to our customers’ needs in a market space defined by frequent technological change; ● The amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures in our business; ● Diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns and disruption of our ongoing business activities as a result of acquisitions or divestitures by us; ● Costs related to the defense and settlement of litigation which can also have an additional adverse impact on us because of negative publicity, diversion of management resources and other factors; ● Potential losses on investments, or other losses from financial instruments we may hold that are exposed to market risk; and ● The exercise of judgment by our management in making accounting decisions in accordance with our accounting policies. Our inability to meet future financial performance targets that we announce or that are published by research analysts could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. From time to time, we provide guidance related to our future financial performance. In addition, financial analysts may publish their own expectations of our future financial performance. Because our quarterly revenue and our operating results fluctuate and are difficult to predict, future financial performance is difficult to predict. We have in the past failed to meet our guidance for a particular period or analyst expectations for our guidance for future periods and our stock price has declined. Generally, the market prices of technology companies have been extremely volatile. Stock prices of many technology companies have often fluctuated in a manner unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. In the past, following periods of market volatility, stockholders have often initiated securities class action litigation relating to the stock trading and price volatility of the technology company in question. Any securities litigation we may become involved in could result in our incurring substantial defense costs and diverting resources and the attention of management from our business. Because a small number of partners have historically accounted for, and for the foreseeable future will account for, the substantial majority of our revenue, under-performance of specific programs or loss of certain partners or programs could decrease our revenue substantially. For the three months ended December 31, 2014, Comcast (67%) and the combined Office Depot and OfficeMax organization (15%) accounted for 10% or more of our total revenue. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2014, Comcast (64%) and the combined Office Depot and OfficeMax organization (16%) accounted for 10% or more of our total revenue. The loss of these or other significant relationships, the change of the terms or terminations of our arrangements with any of these firms, the reduction or discontinuance of programs with any of these firms, or the failure of any of these firms to achieve their targets could adversely affect our business. Generally, the agreements with our partners do not require them to conduct any minimum amount of business with us, and therefore they have decided in the past and could decide at any time in the future to reduce or eliminate their programs or the use of our services in such programs. They may also enter into multi-sourcing arrangements with other vendors for services previously provided exclusively by us. Further, we may not successfully obtain new partners or customers. There is also the risk that, once established, our programs with these and other partners may take longer than we expect to produce revenue or may not produce revenue at all, and the revenue produced may not be profitable if the costs of performing under the program are greater than anticipated or the program terminates before up-front investments can be recouped. One or more of our key partners may also choose not to renew their relationship with us, discontinue certain programs, offer them only on a limited basis or devote insufficient time and attention to promoting them to their customers. Some of our key partners may prefer not to work with us if we also partner with their competitors. If any of these key partners merge with one of their competitors (as occurred with Office Depot and OfficeMax in 2013), all of these risks could be exacerbated. Each of these risks could reduce our sales and have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Further risks associated with the loss or decline in a significant partner are detailed in “Our failure to establish and expand successful partnerships to sell our services and products would harm our operating results” below. 11 Table of Contents Our failure to establish and expand successful partnerships to sell our services and products would harm our operating results. Our current business model requires us to establish and maintain relationships with partners who market and sell our services and products. Failure to establish or maintain such relationships could materially and adversely affect the success of our business. We sell to numerous customers through each of these partners, and therefore a delay in the launch or rollout of our services or the reduction or discontinuance of a program with even one of these partners could cause us to miss revenue or other financial targets. The process of establishing a relationship with a partner can be complex and time consuming, and we must pass multiple levels of review in order to be selected. If we are unable to establish a sufficient number of new partners on a timely basis our sales will suffer. Our Nexus SaaS offering is in its early stages and failure to market, sell and develop the offering effectively and competitively could result in a lack of growth. A number of competitive offerings exist in the market, providing various feature sets that may overlap with our Nexus SaaS offering today or in the future. Some competitors in this market far exceed our spending on sales and marketing activities and benefit from greater existing brand awareness, channel relationships and existing customer relationships. We may not be able to reach the market effectively and adequately or convey our differentiation as needed to grow our customer base. To reach our target market effectively, we may be required to continue to invest substantial resources in sales and marketing and research and development activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. In addition, if we fail to develop and maintain competitive features, deliver high-quality products and satisfy existing customers, our Nexus offering could fail to grow. Growth in Nexus license revenue also depends on scaling our multi-tenant technology flexibly and cost-effectively to meet changing customer demand. Disruptions in infrastructure operations as described below could impair our ability to deliver Nexus to customers, thereby affecting our reputation with existing and prospective customers and possibly resulting in monetary penalties or financial losses. Our end-user software revenues are dependent on online traffic patterns and the availability and cost of online advertising in certain key placements. Some of our consumer end-user software revenue stream is obtained through advertising placements in certain key online media placements. From time to time a trend or a change in a key advertising placement will impact us, decreasing traffic or significantly increasing the cost or effectiveness of online advertising and therefore compromising our ability to purchase a desired volume and placement of advertisements at profitable rates. If such a change were to continue to occur, as it did in 2013 and on several occasions in the past, we may be unable to attract desired amounts of traffic, our costs for advertising may further increase beyond our forecasts and our software revenues may further decrease. As a result, our operating results would be negatively impacted. Our business depends on our ability to attract and retain talented employees. Our business is based on successfully attracting and retaining talented employees. The market for highly skilled workers and leaders in our industry is extremely competitive. If we are not successful in our recruiting efforts, or if we are unable to retain key employees and executive management, our ability to develop and deliver successful products and services may be adversely affected. Effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. Failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees and executive management could hinder our strategic planning and execution. If we fail to attract, train and manage our technology specialists in a manner that meets forecast requirements and provides an adequate level of support for our customers, our reputation and financial performance could be harmed. Our business depends in part on our ability to attract, manage and retain our technology specialists and other support personnel. If we are unable to attract, train and manage in a cost-effective manner adequate numbers of competent technology specialists and other support personnel to be available as service volumes vary, particularly as we seek to expand the breadth and flexibility of our staffing model, our service levels could decline, which could harm our reputation, result in financial losses under contract terms, cause us to lose customers and partners, and otherwise adversely affect our financial performance. Our ability to meet our need for support personnel while controlling our labor costs is subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the workforce, unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and the cost of compliance with labor and wage laws and regulations. In the case of programs with time-based pricing models, the impact of failing to attract, train and manage such personnel could directly and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. Although our service delivery and communications infrastructure enables us to monitor and manage technology specialists remotely, because they are typically home-based and geographically dispersed we could experience difficulties meeting services levels and effectively managing the costs, performance and compliance of these technology specialists and other support personnel. Any problems we encounter in effectively attracting, managing and retaining our technology specialists and other support personnel could seriously jeopardize our service delivery operations and our financial results. 12 Table of Contents Changes in the market for computers and other consumer electronics and in the technology support services market could adversely affect our business. Reductions in unit volumes of sales for computers and other devices we support, or in the prices of such equipment, could adversely affect our business. We offer both services that are attached to the sales of new computers and other devices, and services designed to fix existing computers and other devices. Declines in the unit volumes sold of these devices or declines in the pricing of such devices could adversely affect demand for our services or our revenue mix, either of which would harm our operating results. Further, we do not support all types of computers and devices, meaning that we must select and focus on certain operating systems and technology standards for computers, tablets, smart phones, and other devices. We may not be successful in supporting new devices in the connected home and “Internet of Things,” and consumers and small businesses may prefer equipment we do not support, which may decrease the market for our services and products if customers migrate away from platforms we support. In addition, the structures and pricing models for programs in the technology support services market may change in ways that reduce our revenues and our margins. Our failure to effectively manage third-party service providers would harm our operating results. We enter into relationships with third parties to provide certain elements of our service offerings. We may be less able to manage the quality of services provided by third-party service providers as directly as we would our own employees. In addition, providing these services may be more costly. We also face the risk that disruptions or delays in the communications and information technology infrastructure of these third parties could cause lengthy interruptions in the availability of our services. Any of these risks could harm our operating results. Disruptions in our information technology and service delivery infrastructure and operations, including interruptions or delays in service from third-party web hosting providers, could impair the delivery of our services and harm our business. We depend on the continuing operation of our information technology and communication systems and those of our third-party service providers. Any damage to or failure of those systems could result in interruptions in our service, which could reduce our revenues and damage our reputation. The technology we use to serve partners and the Nexus SaaS offering we license are hosted at a third-party facility located in the United States, and we use a separate, independent third-party facility in the United States for emergency back-up and failover services in support of the hosted site. These two facilities are operated by unrelated publicly held companies specializing in operating such facilities, and we do not control the operation of these facilities. These facilities may experience unplanned outages and other technical difficulties in the future, and are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fires, floods, earthquakes, telecommunications and connectivity failures, power failures, and similar events. These facilities are also subject to risks from vandalism, break-ins, intrusion, and other malicious attacks. Despite substantial precautions taken, such as disaster recovery planning and back-up procedures, a natural disaster, act of terrorism or other unanticipated problem could cause a loss of information and data and lengthy interruptions in the availability of our services and technology platform offerings, as our backup systems may not be able to meet our needs for an extended period of time. We rely on hosted systems maintained by third-party providers to deliver technology services and our Nexus service to customers, including taking customer orders, handling telecommunications for customer calls, tracking sales and service delivery and making platform functionality available to customers. Any interruption or failure of our internal or external systems could prevent us or our service providers from accepting orders and delivering services, or cause company and consumer data to be unintentionally disclosed. Our continuing efforts to upgrade and enhance the security and reliability of our information technology and communications infrastructure could be very costly, and we may have to expend significant resources to remedy problems such as a security breach or service interruption. Interruptions in our services resulting from labor disputes, telephone or Internet failures, power or service outages, natural disasters or other events, or a security breach could reduce our revenue, increase our costs, cause customers and partners and licensees to fail to renew or to terminate their use of our offerings, and harm our reputation and our ability to attract new customers. We maintain insurance programs with highly rated carriers using policies that are designed for businesses in the technology sector and that expressly address, among other things, cyber-attacks and potential harm resulting from incidents such as data privacy breaches; but depending on the type of damages, the amount, and the cause, all or part of any financial losses experienced may be excluded by the policies resulting in material financial losses for us. 13 Table of Contents We must compete successfully in the markets in which we operate or our business will suffer. We compete in markets that are highly competitive, subject to rapid change and significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants. We compete with a number of companies in the markets for technology services, end-user software products and technology support software. In addition, our partners may develop similar offerings internally. The markets for our services and software products are still rapidly evolving, and we may not be able to compete successfully against current and potential competitors. Our ability to expand our business will depend on our ability to maintain our technological advantage, introduce timely enhanced products and services to meet growing support needs, deliver on-going value to our customers, scale our business cost-effectively, and develop complimentary relationships with other companies providing services or products to our partners. Competition in our markets could reduce our market share or require us to reduce the price of products and services, which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. The competitors in our markets for services and software can have some or all of the following comparative advantages: longer operating histories, greater economies of scale, greater financial resources, greater engineering and technical resources, greater sales and marketing resources, stronger strategic alliances and distribution channels, lower labor costs, larger user bases, products with different functions and feature sets and greater brand recognition than we have. We expect new competitors to continue to enter the markets in which we operate. Our future service and product offerings may not achieve market acceptance. If we fail to develop new and enhanced versions of our services and products in a timely manner or to provide services and products that achieve rapid and broad market acceptance, we may not maintain or expand our market share. We may fail to identify new service and product opportunities for our current market or new markets. In addition, our existing services and products may become obsolete if we fail to introduce new services and products that meet new customer demands or support new standards. While we are developing new services and products, there can be no assurance that they will be timely released or ever be completed, and if they are, that they will gain market acceptance or generate material revenue for us. We have limited control over factors that affect market acceptance of our services and products, including the willingness of partners to offer our services and products and customer preferences for competitor services, products and delivery models. We may make acquisitions that deplete our resources and do not prove successful. We have made acquisitions in the past and may make additional acquisitions in the future. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates at prices we consider appropriate. If we do identify an appropriate acquisition candidate, we may not be able to successfully negotiate the terms of the acquisition. Our management may not be able to effectively implement our acquisition program and internal growth strategy simultaneously. The integration of acquisitions involves a number of risks and presents financial, managerial and operational challenges. We may have difficulty, and may incur unanticipated expenses related to, integrating management and personnel from these acquired entities with our management and personnel. Our failure to identify, consummate or integrate suitable acquisitions could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We cannot readily predict the timing, size or success of our future acquisitions. Even successful acquisitions could have the effect of reducing our cash balances. Acquisitions could involve a number of other potential risks to our business, including the following, any of which could harm our business results: ● Unanticipated costs and liabilities and unforeseen accounting charges or fluctuations; ● Delays and difficulties in delivery of services and products; ● Failure to effectively integrate or separate management information systems, personnel, research and development, marketing, sales and support operations; ● Loss of key employees; ● Economic dilution to gross and operating profit; ● Diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns and disruption of our ongoing business; ● Difficulty in maintaining controls and procedures; ● Uncertainty on the part of our existing customers about our ability to operate after a transaction; ● Loss of customers; ● Loss of partnerships; ● Inability to execute our growth plans; ● Declines in revenue and increases in losses; ● Failure to realize the potential financial or strategic benefits of the acquisition or divestiture; and ● Failure to successfully further develop the combined or remaining technology, resulting in the impairment of amounts recorded as goodwill or other intangible assets. 14 Table of Contents Our systems collect, access, use, and store personal customer information and enable customer transactions, which poses security risks, requires us to invest significant resources to prevent or correct problems caused by security breaches, and may harm our business. A fundamental requirement for online communications, transactions and support is the secure collection, storage and transmission of confidential information. Our systems collect and store confidential and personal information of our individual customers as well as our partners and their customers’ users, including personally identifiable information and payment card information, and our employees and contractors may access and use that information in the course of providing services. In addition, we collect and retain personal information of our employees in the ordinary course of our business. We and our third-party contractors use commercially available technologies to secure this information. Despite these measures, parties may attempt to breach the security of our data or that of our customers. In addition, errors in the storage or transmission of data could breach the security of that information. We may be liable to our customers for any breach in security and any breach could subject us to governmental or administrative proceedings or monetary penalties, damage our relationships with partners and harm our business and reputation. Also, computers are vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, which could lead to interruptions, delays or loss of data. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to comply with mandatory privacy and security standards required by law, industry standard, or contract, and to further protect against security breaches or to correct problems caused by any security breach. We are exposed to risks associated with payment card and payment fraud and with payment card processing. Certain of our customers use payment cards to pay for our services and products. We may suffer losses as a result of orders placed with fraudulent payment cards or other payment data. Our failure to detect or control payment fraud could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We are also subject to payment card association operating standards and requirements, as in effect from time to time. Compliance with those standards requires us to invest in network and systems infrastructure and processes. Failure to comply with these rules or requirements may subject us to fines, potential contractual liabilities, and other costs, resulting in harm to our business and results of operations. Privacy concerns and laws or other domestic or foreign regulations may require us to incur significant costs and may reduce the effectiveness of our solutions, and our failure to comply with those laws or regulations may harm our business and cause us to lose customers. Our software and services contain features that allow our technology specialists and other personnel to access, control, monitor and collect information from computers and other devices. Federal, state and foreign government bodies and agencies, however, have adopted or are considering adopting laws and regulations restricting or otherwise regulating the collection, use and disclosure of personal information obtained from consumers and individuals. Those regulations could require costly compliance measures, could reduce the efficiency of our operations, or could require us to modify or cease to provide our systems or services. Liability for violation of, costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by such laws and regulations may limit the use and adoption of our services and reduce overall demand for them. Even the perception of privacy concerns, whether or not valid, may harm our reputation and inhibit adoption of our solutions by current and future customers. In addition, we may face claims about invasion of privacy or inappropriate disclosure, use, storage, or loss of information obtained from our customers. Any imposition of liability could harm our reputation, cause us to lose customers and cause our operating results to suffer. We rely on third-party technologies in providing certain of our software and services. Our inability to use, retain or integrate third-party technologies and relationships could delay service or software development and could harm our business. We license technologies from third parties, which are integrated into our services, technology and end user software. Our use of commercial technologies licensed on a non-exclusive basis from third parties poses certain risks. Some of the third-party technologies we license may be provided under “open source” licenses, which may have terms that require us to make generally available our modifications or derivative works based on such open source code. Our inability to obtain or integrate third-party technologies with our own technology could delay service development until equivalent compatible technology can be identified, licensed and integrated. These third-party technologies may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If our relationship with third parties were to deteriorate, or if such third parties were unable to develop innovative and saleable products, or component features of our products, we could be forced to identify a new developer and our future revenue could suffer. We may fail to successfully integrate any licensed technology into our services or software, or maintain it through our own development work, which would harm our business and operating results. Third-party licenses also expose us to increased risks that include: 15 Table of Contents ● Risks of product malfunction after new technology is integrated; ● Risks that we may be unable to obtain or continue to obtain support, maintenance and updates from the technology supplier; ● The diversion of resources from the development of our own proprietary technology; and ● Our inability to generate revenue from new technology sufficient to offset associated acquisition and maintenance costs. Our business operates in regulated industries. Our current and anticipated service offerings operate in industries, such as home security, that are subject to various federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations in the markets in which we operate. In certain jurisdictions, we may be required to obtain licenses or permits in order to comply with standards governing employee selection and training and to meet certain standards or licensing requirements in the conduct of our business. The loss of such licenses or permits or the imposition of conditions to the granting or retention of such licenses or permits could have a material adverse effect on us. Changes in laws or regulations could require us to change the way we operate or to utilize resources to maintain compliance, which could increase costs or otherwise disrupt operations. In addition, failure to comply with any applicable laws or regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of our operating permits and licenses for us or our partners. If laws and regulations were to change, or if we or our products and services we deemed not to comply with them, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. In some cases we are exposed to greater risks of liability for employee acts or omissions or system failure, than may be typical in other businesses. We expect to support, among other programs, partners offering home security services and other devices and programs for us in the connected home. Because these services related to programs intended to help protect the lives and property, real and personal, of consumers, we may have greater exposure to liability and litigation risks than businesses that provide support for other consumer and small business products and services. Our ability to limit our liability for the acts or omissions of our employees in our contract terms with partners and consumers in relation to such programs may be substantially less than in other markets we serve, which is to say, we may have much greater inherent legal liability exposure in such programs than is customarily seen in programs for markets we have offered historically. In the event of litigation with respect to such matters, it is possible that our risk-mitigation provisions in contracts may be deemed not applicable or unenforceable exposing us to substantial liability exposure, and, regardless of the ultimate outcome, we may incur significant costs of defense that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If our services are used to commit fraud or other similar intentional or illegal acts, we may incur significant liabilities, our services may be perceived as not secure and customers may curtail or stop using our services. Certain software and services we provide, including Nexus, enable remote access to and control of third-party computer systems and devices. We generally are not able to control how such access may be used or misused by licensees of our SaaS offerings. If our software is used by others to commit fraud or other illegal acts, including, but not limited to, violating data privacy laws, proliferating computer files that contain a virus or other harmful elements, interfering or disrupting third-party networks, infringing any third party’s copyright, patent, trademark, trade secret or other rights, transmitting any unlawful, harassing, libelous, abusive, threatening, vulgar, obscene or otherwise objectionable material, or committing unauthorized access to computers, devices, or protected information, third parties may seek to hold us legally liable. As a result, defending such claims could be expensive and time-consuming regardless of the merits, and we could incur significant liability or be required to undertake expensive preventive or remedial actions. As a result, our operating results may suffer and our reputation may be damaged. We rely on intellectual property laws to protect our proprietary rights, and if these rights are not sufficiently protected or we are not able to obtain sufficient protection for our technology, it could harm our ability to compete and to generate revenue. We rely on a combination of laws, such as those applicable to patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, and contractual restrictions, such as confidentiality agreements and licenses, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. Our ability to compete and grow our business could suffer if these rights are not adequately protected. Our proprietary rights may not be adequately protected because: 16 Table of Contents ● Laws and contractual restrictions may not adequately prevent infringement of our proprietary rights and misappropriation of our technologies or deter others from developing similar technologies; and ● Policing infringement of our patents, trademarks and copyrights, misappropriation of our trade secrets, and unauthorized use of our products is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and we may be unable to determine the existence or extent of this infringement or unauthorized use. Intellectual property litigation is expensive and time-consuming and could divert management’s attention from our business. The outcome of any litigation is uncertain and could significantly impact our financial results. Also, the laws of other countries in which we market our products may offer little or no protection of our proprietary technologies. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technologies could enable third parties to benefit from our technologies without paying us for them, which would harm our competitive position and market share. Our success and ability to compete depend to a significant degree on the protection of our solutions and other proprietary technology. It is possible that: ● We may not be issued patents we may seek to protect our technology; ● Competitors may independently develop similar technologies or design around any of our patents; ● Patents issued to us may not be broad enough to protect our proprietary rights; and ● Our issued patents could be successfully challenged. We may face intellectual property infringement claims that could be costly to defend and result in our loss of significant rights. Our business relies on the use and licensing of technology. Other parties may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us or our customers, and our products may infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties. For example, our products may infringe patents issued to third parties. In addition, as is increasingly common in the technology sector, we may be confronted with the aggressive enforcement of patents by companies whose primary business activity is to acquire patents for the purpose of offensively asserting them against other companies. From time to time, we have received allegations or claims of intellectual property infringement, and we may receive more claims in the future. We may also be required to pursue litigation to protect our intellectual property rights or defend against allegations of infringement. Intellectual property litigation is expensive and time-consuming and could divert management’s attention from our business. The outcome of any litigation is uncertain and could significantly impact our financial results. If there is a successful claim of infringement, we may be required to develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or license agreements, which may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Our failure to develop non-infringing technologies or license proprietary rights on a timely basis would harm our business. We may face class actions and similar claims that could be costly to defend or settle and result in negative publicity and diversion of management resources. Our business involves direct sale and licensing of services and software to consumers and small businesses, and we typically include customary indemnification provisions in favor of our partners in our agreements for the distribution of our services and software. As a result we can be subject to consumer litigation and legal proceedings related to our services and software, including putative class action claims and similar legal actions. As our employee count grows and consists mostly of hourly (“non-exempt”) employees working from home, we can also be subject to employee litigation and legal proceedings related to our employment practices attempted on a class or representative basis. Such litigation can be expensive and time-consuming regardless of the merits of any action, and could divert management’s attention from our business. The cost of defense can be large as can any settlement or judgment in an action. The outcome of any litigation is uncertain and could significantly impact our financial results. Regardless of outcome, litigation can have an adverse impact on us because of defense costs, negative publicity, diversion of management resources and other factors. Our long-term success depends, in part, on our ability to expand sales to customers located outside of the United States, and thus our business is susceptible to risks associated with international sales and operations. We currently have sales personnel only within the United States but anticipate expanding our international operations. Our international expansion efforts may not be successful. In addition, conducting international operations subjects us to new risks that we have not generally faced in the United States. These risks include: 17 Table of Contents ● Localization of our services, including translation into foreign languages and adaptation for local practices and regulatory requirements; ● Lack of familiarity with and unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements; ● Longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; ● Difficulties in managing and staffing international operations; ● Fluctuations in currency exchange rates; ● Potentially adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of foreign value added or other tax systems and restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; ● Dependence on certain third parties, including channel partners with whom we do not have extensive experience; ● The burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and legal standards; ● Increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; ● Political, social and economic instability abroad, terrorist attacks and security concerns in general; and ● Reduced or varied protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. Operating in international markets also requires significant management attention and financial resources. The investment and additional resources required to establish operations and manage growth in other countries may not produce desired levels of revenue or profitability. We have recorded long-lived assets, and our results of operations would be adversely affected if their value becomes impaired. Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets were recorded in part due to our acquisition of substantially all of the assets and liabilities of YourTechOnline.com in May 2008, our acquisition of substantially all of the assets of Xeriton Corporation in December 2009, our acquisition of certain assets and assumed liabilities of SUPERAntiSpyware in June 2011 and our acquisition of certain assets and assumed liabilities of RightHand IT Corporation in January 2012. We also have certain intangible assets with indefinite lives. We assess the impairment of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets annually or more often if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We assess the impairment of acquired product rights and other finite lived intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that its carrying amount may not be recoverable. Our results of operations would be adversely affected if impairment of our goodwill or intangible assets occurred. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 