ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS OUR COMMON STOCK MAY BE DELISTED FROM THE NASDAQ CAPITAL MARKET, WHICH WOULD CAUSE A DEFAULT ON OUR DEBT SECURITIES. On November 24, 2008, we received notice that our common stock would be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market subject to our right to a hearing before a NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel (the “Panel”). We requested a hearing and, on January 8, 2009, presented our plan to the Panel for regaining compliance with all applicable requirements for continued listing. On March 20, 2009, the Company received notification from the Panel that it had determined to grant the Company’s request to remain listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, subject to the condition that, among other things, the Company evidence stockholders’ equity at or above $2.5 million on or before May 26, 2009. The Company is required to provide the Panel with prompt notification of any significant events concerning its ability to regain compliance with NASDAQ’s listing standards, and the Panel reserves the right to reconsider the terms of this exception under circumstances that make continued listing of the Company’s common stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market unwarranted. While the Company is working to regain compliance, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to regain compliance by the deadline established by the Panel. If our common stock is not listed on any of the NASDAQ Stock Market, the New York Stock Exchange or the NYSE Alternext US Market (formerly the American Stock Exchange) for more than five days, we would be in default on our senior notes sold by the Company on December 31, 2007 in the principal amount of $17 million. The Company has initiated discussions to seek a waiver of this default from the holders of the notes; however, there can be no assurance that it will be able to obtain a waiver on favorable terms, if at all. If the Company is unable to obtain a waiver, it would be in default under the notes and would be unable to repay the notes without raising additional capital and its ability to continue as a going concern would be in significant doubt. See Note 4 to the Financial Statements and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” DECLINING ECONOMIC CONDITIONS WILL CONTINUE TO WEAKEN OUR SALES The ongoing downturn and uncertainty in general economic and market conditions have negatively affected and may continue to negatively affect demand for our products and services. The resulting loss or delay in our sales has had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. THE COMPANY’S LEVERAGE MAY RESTRICT ITS FUTURE OPERATIONS The Company has substantial indebtedness, including senior notes sold by the Company on December 31, 2007 in the principal amount of $17 million. The payment of interest and principal due under this indebtedness will reduce funds available for other business purposes, including capital expenditures and acquisitions. In addition, the aggregate amount of indebtedness limits the Company’s ability to incur additional indebtedness, and thereby may limit its operations and strategic expansion. WE HAVE INCURRED SUBSTANTIAL LOSSES IN RECENT YEARS AND OUR RETURN TO PROFITABILITY IS UNCERTAIN We incurred net losses of $15.8 million, $9.8 million and $15.6 million, respectively, in the years ended December 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008, and we had an accumulated deficit at December 31, 2008 of $175.6 million. We have a stockholders’ deficit of $8.7 million in our balance sheet at December 31, 2008. Our recent results 11 Table of Contents have been impacted by a number of factors, including decisions by current and prospective customers to defer, or otherwise not make, purchases from us and relatively high research and development expense. Despite our cost restructuring effected in December 2008, we cannot assure you that we will not be affected by these or other factors in future periods. We cannot assure you that we will achieve sufficient revenues to become profitable in the future. IT IS DIFFICULT FOR US TO PREDICT WHEN OR IF SALES WILL OCCUR AND WHEN WE WILL RECOGNIZE THE REVENUE FROM OUR FUTURE SALES Our clients view the purchase of our software applications and related professional services as a significant and strategic decision. As a result, clients carefully evaluate our software products and services, often over long periods. Even under ideal economic conditions, the licensing of our software products may be subject to delays if the client has lengthy internal budgeting, approval and evaluation processes, which are quite common in the context of introducing large enterprise-wide technology solutions. The length of this evaluation process varies from client to client. Our clients occasionally license our software on a subscription basis, which results in deferral of payments and revenues that could otherwise be reportable if a traditional, fully-paid perpetual license were executed. Our revenue forecasts and internal budgets are based, in part, on our best assumptions about the mix of future subscription licenses versus perpetual licenses. If we enter into a larger proportion of subscription agreements than planned, we may experience an unplanned shortfall in revenues or cash during that quarter. A significant percentage of our expenses, particularly personnel costs and rent, are fixed costs and are based in part on expectations of future revenues. We may be unable to reduce spending in a timely manner to compensate for any significant fluctuations in revenues and cash. Accordingly, shortfalls in current revenues, as we have experienced in recent years, may cause our operating results to be below the expectations of public market analysts or investors, which could continue to impact the market for our common stock. OUR CASH FLOW FROM OPERATIONS HAS BEEN NEGATIVE AND MAY CONTINUE TO BE NEGATIVE UNTIL WE RETURN TO SUSTAINED PROFITABILITY, AND WE MAY NEED TO RAISE MORE CASH TO MEET OUR OPERATING NEEDS Our future long-term capital needs will depend significantly on the rate of growth of our business, our profitability, the mix of subscription licensing arrangements versus perpetual licenses sold, possible acquisitions, the timing of expanded product offerings and the success of these offerings if and when they are launched. Accordingly, our future long-term cash needs and cash flows are subject to uncertainty. If our current balance of cash and cash equivalents is insufficient to satisfy our long-term liquidity needs, we may need to sell additional equity or debt securities to raise funds, and, if we are able to find buyers of such securities, those future securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the rights of our common stock. In connection with a sale of stock, our stockholders would experience dilution. In addition, in the current economic climate, we cannot be certain that additional financing will be available to us on favorable terms when required, or at all. WE ARE HIGHLY DEPENDENT UPON THE LIFE SCIENCES INDUSTRY, AND FACTORS THAT ADVERSELY AFFECT THAT MARKET, INCLUDING CONSOLIDATION, COULD ALSO ADVERSELY AFFECT US Most of our revenue to date has come from pharmaceutical companies and a limited number of other clients in the life sciences industry, and our future growth depends, in large part, upon sales to the life sciences market. As a result, demand for our solutions could be affected by any factors that could adversely affect the demand for healthcare products, which are purchased and sold pursuant to contracts managed through our solutions. The financial condition of our clients and their willingness to pay for our solutions are affected by factors that may impact the purchase and sale of healthcare products, including competitive pressures, changes in regulations, decreasing operating margins within the industry, currency fluctuations, active geographic expansion and government regulation. The life sciences market has been adversely affected by the recent economic downturn and is undergoing intense consolidation. We cannot assure you that we will not experience declines in revenue caused by mergers or consolidations among our clients and potential clients. 12 Table of Contents WE HAVE MANY COMPETITORS AND POTENTIAL COMPETITORS AND WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO COMPETE EFFECTIVELY The market for our products and services is competitive and subject to rapid change. We encounter significant competition for the sale of our contract management software from the internal information systems departments of existing and potential clients, software companies that target the contract management markets and professional services organizations. Our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of products and services offered. We experience competition for market share and pressure to reduce prices and make sales concessions, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues and margins. We cannot assure you that our current or future competitors will not develop products or services that may be superior in one or more respects to ours or that may gain greater market acceptance. Some of our competitors have established or may establish cooperative arrangements or strategic alliances among themselves or with third parties, thus enhancing their abilities to compete with us. It is likely that new competitors will emerge and rapidly acquire market share. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures faced by us will not materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. WE MAY NOT BE SUCCESSFUL IN DEVELOPING OR ACQUIRING NEW TECHNOLOGIES OR BUSINESSES AND THIS COULD HINDER OUR EXPANSION EFFORTS We may consider additional acquisitions of or new investments in complementary businesses, products, services or technologies. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in our product development efforts or that we will be able to identify appropriate acquisition or investment candidates. Even if we do identify suitable candidates, we cannot assure you that we will be able to make such acquisitions or investments on terms acceptable to us. Furthermore, we may issue debt or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisitions. The issuance of equity securities could be dilutive to our existing stockholders and the issuance of debt could limit our available cash and accordingly restrict our activities. WE MADE TWO ACQUISITIONS IN 2008 AND MAY HAVE DIFFICULTY INTEGRATING THEM. WE MAY MAKE ADDITIONAL ACQUISITIONS Since the beginning of 2008, we have acquired the ClaimRight business and Edge Dynamics, Inc. We may make additional acquisitions. Any other company that we acquire may be distant from our headquarters in Edison, New Jersey and have a culture different from ours as well as technologies, products and services that our employees will need to understand and integrate with our own. We will have to assimilate the acquired employees, technologies and products, and that effort is difficult, time-consuming and may be unsuccessful. If we are not successful, our investment in the acquired entity may be lost, and even if we are successful, the process of integrating an acquired entity may divert our attention from our core business. WE HAVE MULTIPLE FACILITIES AND WE MAY EXPERIENCE DIFFICULTIES IN OPERATING FROM THESE DIFFERENT LOCATIONS We operate out of our corporate headquarters in Edison, New Jersey, engineering offices in Redwood City, California, Portland, Maine and Gandhinagar, India, and an office facility in London, England. The geographic distances between our offices makes it more challenging for our management and other employees to collaborate and communicate with each other than if they were all located in a single facility, and, as a result, increases the demand on our managerial, operational and financial resources. Also, a significant number of our sales and professional services employees work remotely out of home offices, which adds to this demand. WE MAY NOT BE SUCCESSFUL IN RETAINING AND ATTRACTING TALENTED AND KEY EMPLOYEES We depend on the services of our senior management and key technical personnel. The loss of the services of key employees, and the inability to attract new employees to fill crucial roles, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents OUR EFFORTS TO PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY MAY NOT BE FULLY EFFECTIVE, AND WE MAY INADVERTENTLY INFRINGE ON THE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY OF OTHERS Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain the use of information that we regard as proprietary. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States. We cannot assure investors that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop similar technology. We are not aware that any of our products infringe the proprietary rights of third parties. We cannot assure investors, however, that third parties will not claim infringement by us with respect to current or future products. We expect that software product developers will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable 