ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business We are a relatively young company subject to the risks associated with operating in a new and evolving market. As a relatively young company in the new and rapidly evolving PRC Internet market, we face numerous risks and uncertainties. Some of these risks relate to our ability to: • continue to attract a larger audience to our matrices of Web properties and proprietary search engines by expanding the type and technical sophistication of the content and services we offer; • maintain our current, and develop new, strategic relationships to increase our revenue streams as well as product and service offerings; • increase the revenues derived from our fee-based services and products we offer online; • build our sponsored search, online game, and wireless businesses successfully; and • attract and retain qualified personnel. Our operating results are likely to fluctuate significantly and may differ from market expectations. Our annual and quarterly operating results have varied significantly in the past, and may vary significantly in the future, due to a number of factors which could have an adverse impact on our business, such as our reliance on advertisers in certain industries for brand advertising revenues, our reliance on certain key third party distributors for sponsored search revenues, our reliance on operation of TLBB for online game revenues and our reliance on mobile network operators for our wireless revenues. The Chinese Internet industry is at an early stage of development. We are unsure if it will continue to grow, and if it does, the rate at which it will grow. In addition, we are subject to government regulations that may change at any time with or without notice. Fluctuations in the industries of our key advertisers may affect our brand advertising revenues materially, because they may cut their spending on online marketing if there is any downturn in their industries. We rely on certain third party distributors to sell our sponsored search products. If we lose any of our key distributors, our business may be materially affected. We rely on our operation of TLBB to derive most of our online game revenue. If there were any interruptions of TLBB’s operation, our online game revenue could be adversely affected. We rely on mobile network operators for, among other things, billing of and collection of wireless service fees from mobile phone users. If our arrangements with the operators were to be terminated, altered or not renewed, or if the operators did not provide continuous or adequate service, our wireless revenues could be reduced significantly. -18- Table of Contents As a result, we believe that year-to-year and quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. In addition, we have experienced very high growth rates in certain business lines in the past, and there may be expectations that these growth rates will continue. In the past, our operating results have sometimes fallen below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, and they may do so again in the future. In this event, the trading price of our common stock may fall. We rely on a single MMORPG, TLBB, for a significant portion of our revenues and gross profit and a decrease in its popularity could have a material adverse result on our operating results. Our in-house developed MMORPG, TLBB, contributes a significant percentage of our total revenues and of our total gross profit. Accordingly, any decrease in TLBB’s popularity could materially and adversely affect our business. For the year ended December 31, 2008, revenues generated from TLBB accounted for approximately 94% of our online game revenue, 75% of our total non-advertising revenues and 44% of our total revenues. Our gross profit from online game constituted approximately 58% of our total gross profit. We launched TLBB in May 2007, and we cannot guarantee how long TLBB will continue to sustain its current level of popularity. To prolong TLBB’s lifespan, we need to continually improve and update it on a timely basis with new features that appeal to existing game players and attract new game players, and to market these new features. Despite our efforts to improve TLBB, our game players may nevertheless lose interest in the game over time. In view of our reliance on TLBB, our limited history developing and operating MMORPGs and the uncertainty of our ability to launch and commercialize new games in our pipeline, if we fail to improve and update TLBB on a timely basis, or if our competitors introduce more popular games catering to our game player base, our revenues and profitability could be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, if there were any interruptions in TLBB’s operation due to unexpected server interruptions, network failures or other factors, game players could be prevented or deterred from making purchases of virtual items, which could result in significant decreases in our revenues. We face intense competition which could reduce our market share and adversely affect our financial performance. There are many companies that distribute online content and services targeting Chinese users. We compete with distributors of content and services over the Internet, including Web directories, search engines, online games, content sites, Internet service providers and sites maintained by government and educational institutions. These sites compete with us for visitor traffic, advertising dollars, online game players, potential partners and wireless services. The Internet market in China is relatively new and rapidly evolving. Competition is intense and expected to increase significantly in the future, because there are no substantial barriers to entry in our market. We have many competitors in the PRC Internet market, including Sina, Tencent, NetEase, PConline, SouFun, Baidu, Google, Yahoo! China, SoSo, Shanda, The9, Perfect World, Giant Interactive, NetDragon, Kingsoft, Tom Online, KongZhong, Linktone and Hurray!. In addition, there are a number of existing or new PRC Internet portals, including those controlled or sponsored by PRC government entities. These private and government sponsored competitors may have certain competitive advantages over us in terms of: • substantially greater financial and technical resources; • more extensive and well developed marketing and sales networks; • better access to original content and information; • greater global brand recognition among consumers; and • larger customer bases. We compete with other portals in China primarily on the following bases: • technological advancements; • attractiveness of products; • brand recognition; • volume of traffic and users; • quality of our Websites and content; • strategic relationships; -19- Table of Contents • quality of our services; • effectiveness of sales and marketing efforts; • talented staff; and • price. Our existing competitors may in the future achieve greater market acceptance and gain a greater market share through launching of new products, introducing new technologies, or forming alliances among themselves in order to enhance their ability to compete with us. It is also possible that new competitors may emerge and acquire significant market share. In particular, our search engine faces intense competition from software and other Internet products and services incorporating search and retrieval capabilities, such as Baidu, Google, Yahoo! China and SoSo. In addition, operators of leading Websites or Internet service providers, including Yahoo!, Microsoft/MSN and AOL, currently offer, and could expand, their online products and services targeting China. Such entities may cooperate with other organizations, such as telecommunication operators, in China to accelerate their entry into, and to enhance their competitiveness in, the Chinese market. For example, on September 19, 2006, China Telecom and Microsoft announced an agreement pursuant to which Microsoft will provide Windows Live search service to 25 million users of China Telecom. We believe the rapid increase in China’s online population will draw more attention from these multinational players to the PRC Internet market. We also compete with traditional forms of media, such as newspapers, magazines, radio and television, for advertisers and advertising revenues. If we fail to successfully develop and introduce new products and services, our competitive position and ability to generate revenues could be harmed. We are continuously developing new products and services for our users. The planned timing or introduction of new products and services is subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual timing may differ materially from original plans. Unexpected technical, operational, distribution or other problems could delay or prevent the introduction of one or more of our new products or services. Moreover, we cannot be sure that any of our new products and services will achieve widespread market acceptance or generate incremental revenue. We may be adversely affected by the slowdown of Chinese economy caused in part by the current global crisis in the financial services and credit markets, and our brand advertising business in particular could be severely affected by such slowdown. The Chinese economy recently has experienced a slowing growth rate. A number of factors have contributed to this slowdown, including appreciation of the RMB, which adversely affected China’s exports, and tightened macroeconomic measures and monetary policies adopted by the Chinese government aimed at preventing overheating of the Chinese economy and controlling China’s high level of inflation. The slowdown has been exacerbated by the current global crisis in the financial services and credit markets, which has resulted in significant volatility and dislocation of the global capital markets. It is uncertain how long the global crisis in the financial services and credit markets will continue and how much of an impact it will have on the global economy in general or the Chinese economy in particular, and whether slowing economic growth in China could result in our customers’ reducing their spending on Website services, advertising, and online game. Slower growth in the Chinese economy could affect our businesses generally, and could have a significant impact on our brand advertising business in particular, as our brand advertising revenues could decrease as a result of our brand advertising customers’ reducing their advertising budgets. Our business depends on a strong brand, thus we will not be able to attract users, customers and clients of our products and offerings if we do not maintain and develop our brands. It is critical for us to maintain and develop our brands so as to effectively expand our user base and our revenues. We believe that the importance of brand recognition will increase as the number of Internet users in China grows. In order to attract and retain Internet users, advertisers, online game and wireless customers, we may need to substantially increase our expenditures for creating and maintaining brand loyalty. Accordingly, our revenues will need to increase at least proportionately in order for us to maintain our current levels of profitability. Our success in promoting and enhancing our brands, as well as our ability to remain competitive, will also depend on our success in offering high quality content, features and functionality. If we fail to promote our brands successfully or if visitors to our Websites or advertisers do not perceive our content and services to be of high quality, we may not be able to continue growing our business and attracting visitors, advertisers, wireless, and online game customers. Our failure to keep up with rapid technology changes may severely affect our future success. The Internet industry is undergoing rapid technological changes. Our future success will depend on our ability to respond to rapidly evolving technologies, adapt our services to changing industry standards and improve the performance and reliability of our services. If we fail to adapt to such changes, our business may be adversely affected. For example, with the evolution of Web 2.0, Internet users may shift to new modes of information sharing, such as blogs. Moreover, we have used peer-to-peer streaming technology on video content to promote our online video. Our competitors may develop their own peer-to-peer streaming technology or update their existing technology to surpass us. With the development of search engine technologies, Internet users may choose to access information, news and content through search engines rather than portals. In addition, the online game industry is evolving rapidly, so we need to anticipate new technologies and games and evaluate their possible market acceptance. We may be unable to recover our game development costs if our new online games are less attractive to users. In addition, with the development of 2.5G and even 3G -20- Table of Contents technology, the focus of wireless applications has been transferred from text message services to multi-media message services, wireless games, wireless downloads and other applications. Accordingly, we will need to adapt our business to cope with the changes and support these new services to be successful. In addition, the MIIT is cooperating with other administrations, including the Ministry of Public Security, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Justice, to draft industry standards or regulations regarding Spyware software. If we cannot adapt to new industry standards, more technical expenses could be required in the future. We depend on online advertising for a significant portion of our revenues, but the online advertisement market includes many uncertainties, which could cause our advertising revenues to decline. We derive a significant portion of our revenues, and expect to derive a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future, from the sale of advertising on our Websites. Advertising revenues represented approximately 41% and 63% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, our five largest advertisers accounted for approximately 15% and 14% of our total brand advertising revenues, respectively. The growth of our advertising revenues relies on increased revenue from the sale of advertising spaces on our Websites, which may be affected by many of the following risk factors: • The online advertising market is new and rapidly evolving, particularly in China. As a result, many of our current and potential advertising clients have limited experience using the Internet for advertising purposes and historically have not devoted a significant portion of their advertising budget to Internet-based advertising. • Changes in government policy could restrict or curtail our online advertising services. For example, in 2006 and 2007, the PRC government has enacted a series of regulations, administrative instructions and policies to restrict online medical advertising. As a result of these regulations, we may lose some of our existing medical advertising clients. • Advertising clients that have invested substantial resources in other methods of conducting business may be reluctant to adopt a new strategy that may limit or compete with their existing efforts. • The acceptance of the Internet as a medium for advertising depends on the development of a measurement standard. No standards have been widely accepted for the measurement of the effectiveness of online advertising. Industry-wide standards may not develop sufficiently to support the Internet as an effective advertising medium. If these standards do not develop, advertisers may choose not to advertise on the Internet in general or through our portals or search engines. In addition, our ability to generate and maintain significant online advertising revenues will also depend upon: • the development of a large base of users possessing demographic characteristics attractive to advertising clients; • the acceptance of online advertisement as an effective way for business marketing by advertising clients; • the effectiveness of our advertising delivery, tracking and reporting systems; and • the resistance pressure on online advertising prices and limitations on inventory. We rely on advertising agencies to sell our brand advertising services. If current trends of consolidation of advertising agencies in the Chinese market continue, the bargaining power of the large advertising agencies resulting from such consolidation may permit them to require that we pay higher sales rebates, which would adversely affect our gross margin. Most of our brand advertising services are distributed by advertising agencies. In 2008, for example, approximately 93% of our brand advertising revenues were derived from advertising agencies. In consideration for these agencies’ services, we are required to pay certain percentages of revenues as sales rebates. During 2008, the biggest 10 advertising agencies in China contributed more than 50% of our brand advertising revenue. These advertising agencies currently are seeking consolidation in the market. If the online advertising market is consolidated and effectively controlled by a small number of large advertising agencies, such advertising agencies may be in a position to demand higher sales rebates based on increased bargaining power, which could negatively affect our brand advertising growth as we book our brand advertising revenue netted off our sales rebates to advertising agencies. The expansion of Internet advertisement blocking software may result in a decrease of advertising revenues. The development of Web software that blocks Internet advertisements before they appear on a user’s screen may hinder the growth of online advertising. The expansion of advertisement blocking on the Internet may decrease our revenues because when an advertisement is blocked, it is not downloaded from our advertisement server. As a result, such advertisements will not be tracked as a delivered advertisement. In addition, advertisers may choose not to advertise on the Internet or on our Websites because of the use by third parties of Internet advertisement blocking software. -21- Table of Contents Our failure to retain key distributors or attract additional distributors for our sponsored search customers could have an adverse impact on our business. Sponsored search is at an early stage of development in China and is not as widely accepted by or available to businesses in China as in the United States. As a result, we rely heavily on our nationwide distribution network of third-party distributors for our sales to, and collection of payment from, our sponsored search customers. If our distributors do not provide quality services to our customers or otherwise breach their contracts with them, we may lose our customers. We do not have long-term agreements with any of our distributors, including our key distributors, and cannot assure that we will continue to maintain favorable relationships with them. We rely on our Website Alliance members for a significant portion of our sponsored search revenues. If we fail to retain existing Website Alliance members or attract additional members, our revenues and growth may be adversely affected. By posting bid listing links on their Websites, we share the revenues generated from clicks by users with our Website Alliance members. For the year ended December 31, 2008, the total revenues generated from Website Alliance accounted for approximately 70% of our total bid listing revenues. We consider our Website Alliance critical to the future growth of our sponsored search revenues. If our Website Alliance members decide to use a competitor’s or their own Internet search services, or if we fail to attract additional Websites to join our Website Alliance, our sponsored search revenues may decline. Our online game business may not succeed in a highly competitive market Competition in the online game market in China is becoming increasingly intense. For example, according to the IDC, there were 140 game developers and 281 game titles in 2007. There were four online game companies, Perfect World, Giant Interactive, Netdragon and Kingsoft, that successfully listed their shares on Nasdaq, the New York Stock Exchange or the Hong Kong Stock Exchange in the second half of 2007 alone, adding to the previously listed public companies focusing on the online game market in China, such as Shanda Interactive Entertainment Limited, The9 Limited, NetEase.com Inc. and Tencent Holdings Limited. Moreover, there are many venture-backed private companies focusing on online game development, further intensifying the competition. Recently, many of our competitors have become more aggressive in the hiring of talent for game development, increasing spending on games marketing and bidding for licensing of games. Increased competition in the online game industry may make it difficult for us to retain our existing employees and attract new employees, and to sustain our growth rate. Furthermore, we also face intense competition for cost-effective marketing resources for online games, such as online game-related websites, which could drive up our marketing costs and decrease the effectiveness of our marketing campaigns. There are uncertainties regarding the future growth of the online game industry in China. The online game industry, from which we derive all of our revenues, is a relatively new and evolving industry. The growth of the online game industry and the level of demand and market acceptance of our online games are subject to a high degree of uncertainty. Our future operating results will depend on numerous factors affecting the online game industry, many of which are beyond our control, including: • the growth of personal computer, Internet and broadband users and penetration in China and other markets in which we offer our games, and the rate of any such growth; • whether the online game industry, particularly in China and the rest of the Asia-Pacific region, continues to grow and the rate of any such growth; • general economic conditions, particularly economic conditions adversely affecting discretionary consumer spending, such as the slowdown in Chinese economy growth partly caused by the current global crisis in the financial services and credit markets; • the availability and popularity of other forms of entertainment, particularly games of console systems, which are already popular in developed countries and may gain popularity in China; and • changes in consumer demographics and public tastes and preferences. There is no assurance that online games in general, and MMORPGs in particular, will continue to be popular in China or elsewhere. A decline in the popularity of online games in general, or the MMORPGs that we operate, will likely adversely affect our business and prospects. If we fail to satisfy the changing demands of game players, our revenues may be adversely affected. Our online game revenue depends on continuous consumption of our game services by game users. As of December 31, 2008, we had more than 57.3 million registered accounts for our games. We may lose our online game users if we cannot provide continuously satisfactory service. For example, • we may fail to provide game updates or enhancements in a timely manner due to technologies, resources or other factors; -22- Table of Contents • our game updates and expansion packs may contain programs errors, and their installation may create other unforeseen issues that adversely affect the game-playing experience; • we may fail to timely respond and/or resolve complaints from our game players. • our game updates and expansion packs may change rules or other aspects of our games that our game players do not welcome, resulting in reduction of peak concurrent users and/or average concurrent users of our games. Our failure to address the above-mentioned issues could adversely affect the in-game experiences of game players, damage the reputation of our games, shorten the lifespan of our games, and eventually result in the loss of our game players and a decrease in our revenues. Furthermore, for the games that we license from third parties, there is usually an initial period during which we do not have access to the source code. As a result, we have to rely on the licensors to provide the updates, enhancements and many supporting services during such period, giving us less control over the quality and timeliness of such updates, enhancements and supporting services. If our game players are not satisfied with the level of services they receive, they may choose to not play the games, leading to a decrease in our revenues. We may fail to launch new games according to our timetable, and our new games may not be commercially successful, or may attract game players away from our existing games. We must introduce new online games that can generate additional online game revenues and diversify our online game revenue sources in order to remain competitive. We have three games in the pipeline, DMD, IF and LAW. We expect to begin open beta testing of IF and DMD in the second and fourth quarter of 2009, respectively, and of LAW in early 2010. We are developing DMD in-house and we have licensed IF and LAW from local third party developers. We will not generate any revenue from a game until it enters open beta testing. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to meet our timetable for new game launches. A number of factors, including technical difficulties, lack of sufficient game development personnel and other resources, and adverse developments in our relationship with licensors of our new licensed games could result in delayed launching of or new games. In addition, we cannot assure you that our new games will be as well received in the market as TLBB, and you should not use TLBB as an indication of the commercial success of our future games. There are many factors that may adversely affect the popularity of a new game. For example, we may fail to anticipate and adapt to future technical trends, new business models and changed game players’ preferences and requirements, fail to effectively plan and organize marketing and promotion activities, or fail to differentiate our new games from our existing games. If the new online games we introduce are not commercially successful, we may not be able to recover our development costs, which can be significant. In addition, our new online games may attract game players away from our existing games. In particular, DMD is also an MMORPG based on a novel written by Louis Cha, the same author of Tian Long Ba Bu, based on which we developed TLBB. We cannot assure you that our TLBB game players will not be attracted to play DMD instead of TLBB after DMD’s launch. If this occurred, it would decrease our existing games’ player bases, which could in turn make these games less attractive to other game players, resulting in decreased revenues from our existing games. Game players of our existing games may also spend less money to purchase virtual items in our new online games than they would have spent if they had continued playing our existing games, which would have a significant adverse effect on our online game revenues. All of our online game revenues are generated under the item-based model, which has a short history of commercial application and presents risks related to consumer preferences and regulatory restrictions. When we first launched BO in October 2004, it generated revenue under the time-based revenue model. Currently, we operate both of our games, TLBB and BO, under the item-based revenue model. We expect that a substantial of our online game revenue, including revenues from all of our current pipeline games, will continue to be generated under the item-based revenue model. Under the item-based revenue model, our game players are free to play the games for an unlimited amount of time, but are charged for the purchases of certain virtual items. The item-based revenue model requires us to design games that not only attract game players to spend more time playing, but also encourage them to purchase virtual items. The sale of virtual items requires us to track closely consumer tastes and preferences, especially as to in-game spending trends. If we fail to design virtual items so as to incentivize game players to purchase our virtual items, we may not be able to effectively translate player base and player time into revenues. Although the item-based revenue model is currently a prevalent revenue model for MMORPGs in China, it does not have a long history of proven commercial application. In addition, the item-based revenue model may cause additional concerns with PRC regulators who have been implementing regulations designed to reduce the amount of time that Chinese youths spend on online games and intended to limit the total amount of virtual currency issued by online game operators and the amount of purchase by individual game players. A revenue model that does not charge for time may be viewed by the PRC regulators as inconsistent with these goals. We cannot assure you that the item-based revenue model will continue to be commercially successful, or that we will not in the future need to change our revenue model back to the time-based revenue model or to a new revenue model. Any change in revenue model could result in disruption of our online game operations and a decrease in the number of our game players. Our online game business may be materially harmed if we do not feature our games in a sufficient number of Internet cafés in China. -23- Table of Contents A substantial number of players access our games through Internet cafés. Due to limited hardware capacity, Internet cafés generally feature a limited number of games on their computers. We thus compete with a growing number of other online game operators to ensure that our games are featured on these computers. This competition may intensify in China due to a nationwide suspension of approval for the establishment of new Internet cafés in 2007. The PRC government has announced its intention, and has begun, to intensify its regulation of Internet cafés, which are currently the primary venue for our game players to play online games. Intensified government regulation of Internet cafés could restrict our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and expand our player base.” We take steps to ensure that our games are featured in a sufficient number of Internet cafés, including maintaining good relationships with Internet café administrators, requiring our distributors to maintain a sales presence in a wide range of Internet cafés and general sales and marketing efforts. If we fail to maintain good relationships with Internet café administrators, or if we and/or our distributors fail to successfully persuade Internet cafés to feature our online games on their computers, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. Further, pursuant to the Internet Cafés Notice, Internet cafés are required to obtain an Online Culture Operating Permit from the MOC and register the same with the State AIC. The Internet Cafés Notice also provides restrictions with respect to Internet cafés’ location, size, number of computers, business hours and the ages of customers. For instance, Internet cafés are prohibited from operating between the hours of 12 a.m. and 8 a.m. These regulatory restrictions on the operation of Internet cafés may negatively affect our business operations. Restriction on Virtual Currency may adversely affect our online game revenue. Our online game revenues are collected through the sale of our prepaid cards or online sale of game points. Pursuant to the Internet Cafés Notice, the People’s Bank of China has been directed to strengthen the administration of virtual currency in online games to avoid any adverse impact on the economic and financial order. This notice provides that the total amount of virtual currency issued by online game operators and the amount purchased by individual users should be strictly limited, with a strict and clear division between virtual transactions and real transactions carried out by way of electronic commerce. This notice also provides that virtual currency should only be used to purchase virtual items. These restrictions may result in lower sales of our prepaid cards or game points, which may have an adverse effect on our games revenue. We rely on data recorded in our billing systems for revenue recognition as well as identification of game player consumption patterns of virtual items. If such billing systems fail to operate effectively, it will not only affect the completeness and accuracy of the recognition of our revenues, but also our ability to design and improve virtual items that appeal to game players. Our online game revenues are collected through the sale of our prepaid cards or online sale of game points. However, we do not recognize revenue when our prepaid card or game points are sold. Rather, our online game revenues are recognized when the virtual items purchased by our game players are consumed. For consumable virtual items, including those with a pre-determined expiration time, revenues are recognized as they are consumed, and for perpetual virtual items, revenues are recognized over their estimated lives. We rely on our billing systems to capture the purchase and consumption of virtual items by our game players. If our billing systems fail to accurately record the purchase and consumption information of the virtual items, we may not be able to accurately recognize our revenues. In addition, various factors affect the estimated lives of perpetual virtual items, such as the average period that game players typically play our games and other game players behavior patterns, the acceptance and popularity of expansion packs, promotional events launched and market conditions, and we rely on our billing systems to capture such historical game players’ behavior patterns and other information. If such information is not accurately recorded, or if we do not have sufficient information due to the short operating history of TLBB, we will not be able to accurately estimate the lives of the perpetual virtual items, which will also affect our ability to accurately recognize our online game revenues from such perpetual virtual items. Therefore, if our billing systems were damaged by system failure, network interruption, or virus infection, or attacked by a hacker, the integrity of data would be compromised, which could have a significant affect on our online game revenue recognition and the accuracy of our recorded online game revenues, resulting in possible restatement of our financial statements and loss of investor confidence in us. In addition, we rely on our billing systems to record game player consumption patterns, based on which we improve our existing virtual items and design new virtual items. For example, we intend to increase development efforts on the number and variety of virtual items that our game players like to purchase, and may also adjust prices accordingly. If our billing systems fail to record such data accurately, our ability to improve existing virtual items or design new virtual items that are appealing to our game players may be adversely affected, which would have a significant adverse effect on our online game business. We rely on wireless services for a significant portion of our revenues. Wireless revenues have decreased in prior periods and may decrease further in the future. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from wireless services. We have derived our wireless revenues in prior periods from providing SMS, RBT, WAP, MMS and IVR, mainly consisting of news, weather forecast, chatting, entertainment information, music, ring tone, picture and logo downloads and various other mobile related products to mobile phone users and Personal Handy-phone System (or PHS) users. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, wireless revenues represented approximately 11% and 14%, respectively, of our total revenues. Wireless revenues decreased in certain prior periods. Wireless revenues may decrease in the future due to the possibilities that: • Our consumers may not understand our services or the fees they are being charged, may not be satisfied with our services and/or may not use our services on a regular basis; -24- Table of Contents • Consumers may cancel their services at any time without notice; • Revenues from new wireless services such as RBT, WAP, MMS and IVR may not continue to grow significantly and become a significant portion of our total wireless revenues; • Competitors, including mobile network operators, may launch competing or better products than ours at any time; • There are limited barriers to entry to the wireless services sector; • Changes in the billing practices or operational rules and procedures of any of the three mobile network operators on whom we rely for service delivery and fee collection — namely, CMCC, China Unicom and China Telecom — could have a material impact on our wireless revenues. For instance, in July 2006, two major mobile network operators, CMCC and Unicom, introduced new policies on wireless value-added service, including extension of the trial period, double reminders for new monthly subscriptions, billing reminders to existing monthly subscribers and conversion of per message-based SMS subscriptions. In October 2006, the MIIT issued a guideline to regulate wireless value-added services, which reiterated policies carried on by major mobile network operators, including double confirmation, billing reminders, etc. On January 1, 2007, a notice of the MIIT, which focuses on the protection of mobile phone users’ right to select services and the strengthening of regulation on billing procedure, came into effect. On May 17, 2007, CMCC initiated a new policy under which all WAP users are reminded of charges they may incur for WAP services. The policy has resulted in a decrease in traffic for the WAP portals, and in turn a decrease in subscriptions for our WAP services. Our wireless revenues have been negatively affected by the implementation of such regulations and policies, and there could be new regulations or policies that could further adversely affect our wireless revenues; • Changes in government policy could restrict or curtail the services which we provide. The MIIT has proposed requiring all handset users (including pre-paid mobile phone users) to register using their real names. If this requirement is implemented, it may cause the decrease of new customers, and in turn, reducing our wireless revenues; • Mobile network operators may impose penalties on wireless service providers (or SPs), for violating certain operating policies relating to the provision of wireless services. We have received several penalty notices from mobile network operators, claiming a breach of cooperation contracts and imposing both service suspension sanctions for a period of not more than a year and/or monetary penalties. There is no guarantee that we will not be subject to similar, or more severe, penalties from mobile network operators in the future, which could significantly impair our wireless business; • We may enter into cooperation agreements with mobile network operators on terms that are not favorable to us since we have limited bargaining power to negotiate contract terms. In addition, mobile network operators may unilaterally revise their agreement at any time. As a result of such contract terms, we could easily be found in breach of our agreement with an operator and may be subject to penalties; and • Mobile network operators may not enter new agreements or renew existing agreements with SPs with respect to wireless services. However, those mobile network operators will continue work with us to provide services and monthly statements. New or renewed agreements with mobile network operators could change in a way that would be unfavorable to us, or such agreements may not be entered into at all. We rely on contracts with the mobile network operators in a number of ways with respect to our wireless services, including the billing of, and collection from, mobile phone users of wireless service fees. If our arrangements with mobile network operators were to be terminated, altered or not renewed, or if such operators did not provide continuous or adequate service, our revenues could be reduced. Our wireless services depend mainly on the cooperation of mobile network operators such as CMCC, China Unicom, China Telecom and their respective subsidiaries. We rely on mobile network operators in the following ways: • we use mobile network operators’ networks and gateways to provide wireless services; • we use and rely on mobile network operators’ billing systems to charge our subscribers through the subscribers’ mobile phone bills; • we rely on mobile network operators’ collection proxy services to collect payments from subscribers; and • we rely on mobile network operators’ infrastructure to further develop our wireless services. We face significant risks with respect to our arrangements with mobile network operators which could adversely affect our wireless revenues. Such risks include the following: • Mobile network operators have changed their operating rules and may make further changes at any time. Such previous or any future changes could result in our being required to pay penalties for breaching or being alleged to have breached certain provisions of our agreements with the mobile network operators under new or revised operation rules, or having our service discontinued with or without notice. Changes in these operating rules could also have a material impact on our wireless revenues; -25- Table of Contents • We provide wireless services through our Website and record the delivery of the service in our internal systems. However, in order to recognize revenues and receive payment for services provided, we rely on billing confirmations from mobile network operators as to the actual amount of services they have billed to their mobile customers. We are unable to collect wireless service fees from an operator in certain circumstances due to technical issues with the operator’s network. We refer to these failures as an operator’s “failure rate”, which can vary from operator to operator. An operator’s failure rate can vary from month to month, ranging from 0% to 94% and may change at any time without notice. If an operator encounters technical problems, increases in the failure rate for that operator could occur; • The service fees we pay for using an operator’s infrastructure are set on the basis of negotiation of annual contracts. Our negotiation leverage is limited and if an operator increases its service fees or does not comply with the terms of our contract, our gross margin and profitability could be materially reduced. It is possible that some subsidiaries of the mobile network operators may consider increasing their service fees; • We are required to follow the operators’ guidance in setting up wireless service fees. We also rely on the mobile network operators to collect the fees on our behalf which they have billed to our mobile customers. If an operator requires us to reduce the wireless service fees charged to mobile customers, disallows us from billing of certain inactive customers, refuses to pay us, requires us to share bad debts expenses, or, limits the amount of wireless service fees which can be billed or requires us to comply with any new billing rules, our wireless revenues could be adversely affected; • An operator’s refusal to allow us to supply certain services could disrupt our wireless services. For example, during the period from September 1, 2004 to July 31, 2005, our MMS services were temporarily suspended by CMCC, based on allegations that Beijing Sohu, which was one of our VIEs at the time, breached certain provisions of its agreement with a CMCC subsidiary; • An operator could launch competing services at any time and could work with content providers directly so that SPs’ abilities to diversify their products might be limited. For example, in July 2006, CMCC introduced M. Music, an integrated music service platform which CMCC works directly with music record companies to provide downloads of various songs and music. In December 2006, CMCC introduced its own WAP channel, “WAP Premier Select”, which is placed in prominent positions on Monternet and directly competes with SPs. If mobile network operators were unwilling to work with us, we would not be able to find substitute partners; and • CMCC set up rules for ranking of WAP service providers on its Monternet browser, which has a significant impact on WAP revenues. CMCC may change the rules at any time to affect the rank of the top five listings. As a result, the growth of our WAP revenues was lower than expected and we may lose our existing ranking because of lower visit rates. Our strategy of acquiring complementary assets, technologies and businesses may fail and result in equity or earnings dilution. As a component of our growth strategy, we have acquired and intend to actively identify and acquire assets, technologies and businesses that are complementary to our existing portal business. Our acquisitions could result in the use of substantial amounts of cash, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, significant impairment losses related to goodwill or amortization expenses related to intangible assets and exposure to undisclosed or potential liabilities of acquired companies. Moreover, the resources expended in identifying and consummating acquisitions may be significant. Furthermore, any acquisition we decide to pursue may be subject to the approval of the relevant PRC governmental authorities, as well as any applicable PRC rules and regulations. Considering the fast changing legal environment, our acquisition may be subject to government’s further scrutiny and the acquisition structures we used to adopt may be found to be inappropriate. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if we are required to reassess our goodwill or other amortizable intangible assets arising from acquisitions. We are required under GAAP to review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if facts and circumstances warrant a review. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization and slower or declining growth rates in our industry. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined. We recorded goodwill of $7.5 million related to our sponsored search business for our acquisition of Go2map in 2005. During fiscal 2008, we assessed the goodwill related to our sponsored search for impairment as a result of continuously declining revenues and gross margins over the past three years. We used both the income approach and market approach for the assessment of goodwill related to the sponsored search business and the assumptions used were based on the information available to us at the time. Further decline in the performance of our sponsored search business and other factors may require us to record a significant impairment charge to earnings. -26- Table of Contents Changes in accounting rules for share-based compensation may adversely affect our operating results, our stock price and our competitiveness in the employee marketplace. Our performance is largely dependent on talented and highly skilled individuals. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to identify, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. We have a history of using employee stock options and restricted stock units to align employees’ interest with the interests of our shareholders and encourage quality employees to join us and retain our quality employees by providing competitive compensation packages. On January 1, 2006, we adopted SFAS 123(R), which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based compensation based on estimated fair values. As a result, our operating results contain a charge for share-based compensation expense related to employee stock options and restricted stock units. The recognition of share-based compensation in our statement of operations would have a negative effect on our reported results and earnings per share, which could in turn negatively affect our stock price. On the other hand, if we alter our employee stock incentive plan to minimize the share-based compensation expenses, it may limit our ability to continue to use share-based awards as a tool to attract and retain our employees, and it may adversely affect our operations. Our failure to manage growth and diversify our business could harm us. We have experienced dramatic growth in personnel since our inception and we expect to continue to hire additional personnel in selected areas. This growth requires significant time and resource commitments from us and our senior management. If we are unable to effectively manage a large and geographically dispersed group of employees or anticipate our future growth, our business could be adversely affected. Additionally, our business relies on our financial reporting and data systems (including our systems for billing users of our fee-based services), which have grown increasingly complex in the recent past due to acquisitions and the diversification and complexity of our business. Our ability to operate our business efficiently depends on these systems, and if we are unable to adapt to these changes, our business could be adversely affected. If we fail to establish and maintain relationships with content, technology or infrastructure providers, we may not be able to attract and retain users. Although, we may secure more attractive, high-quality music and content, we will still need to rely on a number of third party relationships to attract traffic and provide content in order to make our Websites more attractive to users and advertisers. Most of our arrangements with content providers are short-term and may be terminated at the convenience of the other party. Some content providers have increased the fees they charge us for their content. This trend could increase our costs and operating expenses and could adversely affect our ability to obtain content at an economically acceptable cost. We have also entered into exclusive agreements with some of our premier content providers. If we are not able to renew our exclusive deals or premier content become exclusive to our competitors, our attractiveness to users will be severely impaired. Except for the exclusive content, much of the third party content provided to our Websites is also available from other sources or may be provided to other Internet companies. If other Internet companies present the same or similar content in a superior manner, it would adversely affect our visitor traffic. Our business also depends significantly on relationships with leading technology and infrastructure providers and the licenses that the technology providers have granted to us. Our competitors may establish the same relationships as we have, which may adversely affect us. We may not be able to maintain these relationships or replace them on commercially attractive terms. For example, there are uncertainties in the wireless industry, such as the delayed issuance of 3G licenses and rumors concerning the possible restructuring of state-owned telecommunication companies that increase the risk that we will not be able to maintain co-operative relationships with mobile network operators. We depend on key personnel and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose the services of our key executives and employees. Our future success is heavily dependent upon the continued service of our key executives, particularly Dr. Zhang, who is the founder, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board, and a major shareholder of our company. We rely on his expertise in our business operations, and on his personal relationships with the relevant regulatory authorities, our customers and suppliers. We also rely on other senior executives, such Tao Wang, the head of our online game business. If one or more of our key executives and employees are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them easily and our business may be severely disrupted. In addition, if any of our key executives or employees joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose customers and suppliers and incur additional expenses to recruit and train personnel. Each of our executive officers has entered into an employment agreement and a confidentiality, non-competition and non-solicitation agreement with us. However, the degree of protection afforded to an employer pursuant to confidentiality and non-competition undertakings governed by PRC law may be more limited when compared to the degree of protection afforded under the laws of other jurisdictions. We do not maintain key-man life insurance for any of our key executives. -27- Table of Contents We also rely on a number of key technology staff for the operation of Sohu. Given the competitive nature of the industry, the risk of key technology staff leaving Sohu is high and could have a disruptive impact on our operations. Rapid growth and a rapidly changing operating environment strain our limited resources. We have limited operational, administrative and financial resources, which may be inadequate to sustain the growth we want to achieve. As the demands of our audience and the needs of our customers change, and as the number of our users and volume of online advertising, and wireless activities increase, we will need to increase our investment in our network infrastructure, facilities and other areas of operations. If we are unable to manage our growth and expansion effectively, the quality of our services could deteriorate and our business may suffer. Our future success will depend on, among other things, our ability to: • adapt our services and maintain and improve the quality of our services; • protect our Website from hackers and unauthorized access; • continue training, motivating and retaining our existing employees and attract and integrate new employees; and • develop and improve our operational, financial, accounting and other internal systems and controls. We face risks related to health epidemics and other outbreaks. Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of avian flu, SARS or other epidemics or outbreaks. China reported a number of cases of SARS in April 2004. In recent years, there have been reports of occurrences of avian flu in various parts of China, including a few confirmed human cases and deaths. Any prolonged recurrence of avian flu, SARS or other adverse public health developments in China may have a material adverse effect on our business operations. These could include illness and loss of our management and key employees, as well as temporary closure of our offices and related business operations, such as server operations, upon which we rely. Such loss of management and key employees or closures would severely disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our results of operations. We have not adopted any written preventive measures or contingency plans to combat any future outbreak of avian flu, SARS or any other epidemic. In addition, other major natural disasters may also adversely affect our business by, for example, causing disruptions of the Internet network or otherwise affecting access to our portals and our games. For example, after the Sichuan earthquake in May 2008, we suspended our delivering of online advertisements and our MMORPG operations during a three-day national mourning period. Risks Related to China’s Telecommunications Infrastructure The telecommunications infrastructure in China, which is not as well developed as in the United States, may limit our growth. The telecommunications infrastructure in China is not well developed. Our growth will depend on the PRC government and state-owned enterprises establishing and maintaining a reliable Internet and telecommunications infrastructure to reach a broader base of Internet users in China. The Internet infrastructure, standards, protocols and complementary products, services and facilities necessary to support the demands associated with continued growth may not be developed on a timely basis or at all by the PRC government and state-owned enterprises. We depend on China Unicom, China Telecom and CERNET for telecommunications services, and any interruption in these services may result in severe disruptions to our business. Although private Internet service providers exist in China, almost all access to the Internet is maintained through China Unicom, China Telecom and CERNET, under the administrative control and regulatory supervision of the MIIT. We rely on this infrastructure and China Unicom, China Telecom and CERNET to provide data communications capacity primarily through local telecommunications lines. Although the government has announced aggressive plans to develop the national information infrastructure, this infrastructure may not be developed and the Internet infrastructure in China may not be able to support the continued growth of Internet usage. In addition, we will have no access to alternative networks and services, on a timely basis if at all, in the event of any infrastructure disruption or failure. We have signed Bandwidth Provision and Server Hosting Agreements with China Unicom, China Telecom and CERNET. Under these agreements, we established four main service provision centers to maintain most of our servers in Beijing. However, as there are limited telecommunication infrastructure service providers, we may not be able to lease additional bandwidth on acceptable terms, on a timely basis, or at all. If we are not able to lease additional bandwidth, the development of our business can be affected. The high cost of Internet access may limit the growth of the Internet in China and impede our growth. Access to the Internet in China remains relatively expensive, and may make it less likely for users to access and transact business over the Internet. Unfavorable rate developments could further decrease our visitor traffic and our ability to derive revenues from transactions over the Internet. -28- Table of Contents To the extent we are unable to scale our systems to meet the increasing PRC Internet population, we will be unable to expand our user base and increase our attractiveness to advertisers and merchants. As Web page volume and traffic increase in China, we may not be able to scale our systems proportionately. To the extent we do not successfully address our capacity constraints, our operations may be severely disrupted, and we may not be able to expand our user base and increase our attractiveness to advertisers and merchants. Unexpected network interruptions caused by system failures may result in reduced visitor traffic, reduced revenue and harm to our reputation. Our Website operations are dependent upon Web browsers, Internet service providers, content providers and other Website operators in China, which have experienced significant system failures and system outages in the past. Our users have in the past experienced difficulties due to system failures unrelated to our systems and services. Any system failure or inadequacy that causes interruptions in the availability of our services, or increases the response time of our services, as a result of increased traffic or otherwise, could reduce our user satisfaction, future traffic and our attractiveness to users and advertisers. For example, on February 14, 2009, our blog services were disconnected because of a power loss affecting China Unicom. Our operations are vulnerable to natural disasters and other events, as we only have limited backup systems and do not maintain any backup servers outside of China. We have limited backup systems and have experienced system failures and electrical outages from time to time in the past, which have disrupted our operations. Most of our servers and routers are currently hosted in a single location within the premises of BTA. Our disaster recovery plan cannot fully ensure safety in the event of damage from fire, floods, typhoons, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events. If any of the foregoing occurs, we may experience a complete system shutdown. We do not carry any business interruption insurance. To improve the performance and to prevent disruption of our services, we may have to make substantial investments to deploy additional servers or one or more copies of our Websites to mirror our online resources. Although we carry property insurance with low coverage limits, our coverage may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses, particularly with respect to loss of business and reputation that may occur. Our network operations may be vulnerable to hacking, viruses and other disruptions, which may make our products and services less attractive and reliable. Internet usage could decline if any well-publicized compromise of security occurs. “Hacking” involves efforts to gain unauthorized access to information or systems or to cause intentional malfunctions or loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment. Hackers, if successful, could misappropriate proprietary information or cause disruptions in our service. We may be required to expend capital and other resources to protect our Website against hackers. We cannot assure you that any measure we may take will be effective. In addition, the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could expose us to a material risk of loss or litigation and possible liability, as well as materially damage our reputation and decrease our user traffic. Risks Related to China’s Regulation Environment If our current ownership structure is found to be in violation of current or future PRC laws, rules or regulations regarding the legality of foreign investment in the PRC Internet sector, we could be subject to severe penalties. We conduct our Internet and value-added telecommunication operations solely in the PRC through our indirect wholly owned subsidiaries, Sohu Era, Sohu Media, Sohu Software, Sogou Technology, Go2Map Software, AmazGame and New Software (or collectively PRC subsidiaries), and VIEs, High Century, Sohu Entertainment, Sohu Internet, GoodFeel, Beijing Fire Fox, Tu Xing Tian Xia, Feng Yang Tian Lang, Sogou Information, 21 East Beijing, Gamease and New 21 East. We are a Delaware corporation, while Sohu Hong Kong, our indirect wholly owned subsidiary and the parent company of, Sohu Era, Sohu Media and Sohu Software, and Changyou.com (Hong Kong) Limited, our indirect wholly owned subsidiary and the parent company of AmazGame, are both Hong Kong corporations and foreign persons under PRC law. In order to meet ownership requirements under PRC law which restrict or prohibit wholly foreign owned enterprises, or WFOEs, from operating in certain industries such as Internet information, wireless, Internet access, and certain other industries, our VIEs are companies incorporated in the PRC and owned by certain of our employees. The PRC began several years ago to regulate its Internet sector by making pronouncements or enacting regulations regarding the legality of foreign investment in the PRC Internet sector and the existence and enforcement of content restrictions on the Internet. We believe that our current ownership structure complies with all existing PRC laws, rules and regulations. There are, however, substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation of current PRC Internet laws and regulations. The PRC government may issue new interpretations of the regulations regarding supervision of the Information industry from time to time. In July 2006, the MIIT issued a notice to strengthen management of foreign investment in and operation of value-added telecommunication services. The notice emphasizes that foreign investors who wish to engage in value-added telecommunication services must strictly follow the relevant rules and regulations on foreign investment in telecommunication sectors. The notice also prohibits domestic telecommunication services providers from leasing, transferring or selling telecommunications business operating licenses to any foreign investor in any form, or providing any resources, sites or facilities to any foreign investor for their illegal operation of a -29- Table of Contents telecommunications business in China. According to the notice, either the holder of a value-added telecommunication service license or its shareholders must directly own the domain names and trademarks used by such license holders in their provision of Value-added Telecommunication Services. The notice further requires each license holder to have the necessary facilities, including servers, for its approved business operations and to maintain such facilities in the regions covered by its license. Value-added services license holders are required to evaluate the compliance with the requirements set forth in the notice. We are in the process of transferring several of our domain names and trademarks to Sohu Internet, which licensed the same to Sohu Era and Sohu Media, and we may modify other certain aspects of our business structure in order to further comply with these requirements. In addition, new PRC Internet and foreign exchange laws and regulations were recently adopted. Accordingly, it is possible that the PRC government may ultimately take a view contrary to ours. In addition, under the agreement reached in November 1999 between the PRC and the United States concerning the United States’ support of China’s entry into the World Trade Organization (or WTO), regulation of foreign investment in PRC Internet services is to be liberalized to allow for 30% foreign ownership in key telecommunication services, including PRC Internet ventures, for the first year after China’s entry into the WTO, 49% in the second year and 50% thereafter. China officially entered the WTO on December 11, 2001. However, the implementation of China’s WTO accession agreements is still subject to various conditions. Accordingly, it is possible that the relevant PRC authorities could, at any time, assert that any portion or all of the Sohu PRC subsidiaries’ and Sohu VIEs’ existing or future ownership structure and businesses violate existing or future PRC laws, regulations or policies. It is also possible that the new laws or regulations governing the PRC Internet sector that have been adopted or may be adopted in the future will prohibit or restrict foreign investment in, or other aspects of, any of our PRC subsidiaries’ and VIEs’ current or proposed businesses and operations. In addition, any such new laws and regulations may be retroactively applied to us and our PRC subsidiaries and VIEs. If we or any of our PRC subsidiaries and VIEs were found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, the relevant PRC authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations, including, without limitation, the following: • levying fines; • confiscating our income; • revoking our licenses; • shutting down our servers and/or blocking our Websites; • requiring us to restructure our ownership structure or operations; and • requiring us to discontinue any portion or all of its Internet and value-added telecommunication businesses. We may be unable to collect long-term loans to officers and employees or exercise management influence associated with High Century, Sohu Entertainment, GoodFeel, Sogou Information and Gamease. As of December 31, 2008, Sohu had outstanding long-term loans of $11.9 million to Dr. Zhang, Sohu’s Chief Executive Officer and a major Sohu shareholder, and certain of our employees, such as Tao Wang, the head of our online game business. The long-term loans are used to finance investments in High Century, which is owned 80% by Dr. Zhang and 20% by an employee; Sohu Entertainment, which is owned by two of our employees; GoodFeel, which is owned by two of our employees; Sogou Information, which is owned by two of our employees, and Gamease, which is owned by Tao Wang and one of our other employees. High Century, Sohu Entertainment, GoodFeel, Sogou Information and Gamease are used to facilitate our participation in telecommunications, Internet content and certain other businesses in China where foreign ownership is either prohibited or restricted. The loan agreements contain provisions that, subject to PRC laws, (i) the loans can only be repaid to us by transferring the shares of High Century, Sohu Entertainment, GoodFeel, Sogou Information or Gamease to us; (ii) the shares of High Century, Sohu Entertainment, GoodFeel, Sogou Information or Gamease cannot be transferred without our approval; and (iii) we have the right to appoint all directors and senior management personnel of High Century, Sohu Entertainment, GoodFeel, Sogou Information and Gamease. In the loan agreements the borrowers have pledged all of their shares in High Century, Sohu Entertainment, GoodFeel, Sogou Information and Gamease as collateral for the loans and the loans bear no interest and are due on demand after November 2003 in the case of High Century; after August 2006 in the case of Sogou Information; after October 2006 in the case of GoodFeel; after November 2006 in the case of Sohu Entertainment; and after September 2008 in the case of Gamease and the earlier of a demand or, in any case, at such time as Dr. Zhang or the other employee borrowers, as the case may be, is not an employee of Sohu. Sohu does not intend to request repayment of the loans as long as PRC regulations prohibit it from directly investing in businesses being undertaken by the VIEs. Because these loans can only be repaid by the borrowers’ transferring the shares of the various entities, our ability to ultimately realize the effective return of the amounts advanced under these loans will depend on the profitability of High Century, Sohu Entertainment, GoodFeel, Sogou Information and Gamease is uncertain. -30- Table of Contents Furthermore, because of uncertainties associated with the PRC law, ultimate enforcement of the loan agreements is uncertain. Accordingly, we may never be able to collect these loans or exercise influence over High Century, Sohu Entertainment, GoodFeel, Sogou Information and Gamease. We depend upon contractual arrangements with High Century, Sohu Entertainment, Sohu Internet, GoodFeel, Tu Xing Tian Xia, Feng Yang Tian Lang, Sogou Information and Gamease for the success of our business and these arrangements may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct ownership of these businesses and may be difficult to enforce. Because we conduct our Internet operations only in the PRC, and are restricted or prohibited by the PRC government from owning Internet content or telecommunication operations in the PRC, we are dependent on High Century, Sohu Entertainment, Sohu Internet, GoodFeel, Tu Xing Tian Xia, Feng Yang Tian Lang, Sogou Information and Gamease, in which we have no direct ownership interest, to provide those services through contractual agreements between the parties. These arrangements may not be as effective in providing control over our Internet content or telecommunications operations as direct ownership of these businesses. For example, some of our subsidiaries and VIEs could fail to take actions required for our business, such as entering into content development contracts with potential content suppliers or failing to maintain the necessary permit for the content servers. If High Century, Sohu Entertainment, Sohu Internet, GoodFeel, Tu Xing Tian Xia, Feng Yang Tian Lang, Sogou Information and Gamease fail to perform its obligations under these agreements, we may have to rely on legal remedies under PRC law. We cannot assure you that such remedies under PRC law would be effective or sufficient. The contractual arrangements between our subsidiaries and our VIEs may result in adverse tax consequences. PRC laws and regulations emphasize the requirement of an arm’s length basis for transfer pricing arrangements between related parties. The laws and regulations also require enterprises with related party transactions to prepare transfer pricing documentation to demonstrate the basis for determining pricing, the computation methodology and detailed explanations. Related party arrangements and transactions may be subject to challenge or tax inspection by the PRC tax authorities. Under a tax inspection, if our transfer pricing arrangements between the China-based subsidiaries and VIEs are judged as tax avoidance, or related documentation does not meet the requirements, our China-based subsidiaries and VIEs may be subject to material adverse tax consequences, such as transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could result in a reduction, for PRC tax purpose, of adjustments recorded by Gamease, which could adversely affect us by (i) increasing VIE’s tax liabilities without reducing our subsidiaries’ tax liabilities, which could further result in interest being levied to us for unpaid taxes; or (ii) limiting the ability of our PRC companies to maintain preferential tax treatment and other financial incentives. If we are found to be in violation of current or future PRC laws, rules or regulations regarding Internet-related services and telecom-related activities, we could be subject to severe penalties. The PRC has enacted regulations that apply to Internet-related services and telecom-related activities. While many aspects of these regulations remain unclear, they purport to limit and require licensing of various aspects of the provision of Internet information and content, online advertising, online game and value-added telecommunication services. In addition, the PRC government may promulgate new laws, rules or regulations at any time. If these current or future laws, rules or regulations regarding Internet-related activities, are interpreted to be inconsistent with our ownership structure and/or our business operations, our business will be severely impaired and we could be subject to severe penalties. Any such disruption in our business operations would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, as the online game industry is at an early stage of development in China, the PRC government might release new laws, new regulations and policies from time to time to implement restrictions and further regulation on the online game industry. For example, online game companies are required to install an “anti-fatigue system”, which discourages game participants from playing games for more than five hours per day. In addition, the PRC government has implemented a compulsory requirement that online game players register their real names and provide ID numbers when playing games. With this requirement as to real-name registration for online game players, the government implemented a rating system for online games. For those online games rated as not suitable for children under the age of 18, children under the age of 18 will be unable to access such game if a real name registration is in place. As a result, our revenues from online games may be adversely affected. In addition, we may be required to apply for a new license or new qualification or transfer from an old type of license to a new type of license at any time as a result of the requirements of newly promulgated laws or new regulations. There often is a lengthy period between the enactment of such new requirements and the final issuance of any required license or qualification. Although effectiveness of any such new license ordinarily will be as of the date of filing of the application, we may be held liable for operating without a proper license and may be fined for any operations conducted during the application period. Moreover, for music search, because there has been no specific legislation regulating the search engine sector, disputes and lawsuits have frequently arisen in connection with search outcomes. The PRC government is considering legislation to strictly regulate the search engine sector. In the event that specific regulations are promulgated and come into effect, there is no assurance that our search engine will not be adversely affected and/or subjected to penalties from the PRC government. -31- Table of Contents Even if we are in compliance with PRC governmental regulations relating to licensing and foreign investment prohibitions, the PRC government may prevent us from distributing, and we may be subject to liability for, content that it believes is inappropriate. The PRC has enacted regulations governing Internet access and the distribution of news and other information. In the past, the PRC government has stopped the distribution of information over the Internet that it believes to violate PRC law, including content that is obscene, incites violence, endangers national security, is contrary to the national interest or is defamatory. In addition, we may not publish certain news items, such as news relating to national security, without permission from the PRC government. Furthermore, the Ministry of Public Security has the authority to make any local Internet service provider block any Website maintained outside the PRC at its sole discretion. Even if we comply with PRC governmental regulations relating to licensing and foreign investment prohibitions, if the PRC government were to take any action to limit or prohibit the distribution of information through our network or to limit or regulate any current or future content or services available to users on our network, our business would be harmed. We are also subject to potential liabilities for content on our Websites that is deemed inappropriate and for any unlawful actions of our subscribers and other users of our systems under regulations promulgated by the MIIT, such potential liabilities including, but not limited to, the imposition of fines or even the shutting down of the Website. Furthermore, we are required to delete content that clearly violates the laws of the PRC and report content that we suspect may violate PRC law. We may have difficulty determining the type of content that may result in liability for us and, if we are wrong, we may be prevented from operating our Websites. We may need to rely on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by Sohu.com Limited, our wholly owned subsidiary, to fund any cash requirements we may have. We may not be able to obtain cash from distributions to the extent such distributions are restricted by PRC law or future debt covenants. We are a holding company with no operating assets other than investments in Chinese operating entities through our intermediate holding company, Sohu.com Limited, our wholly-owned subsidiary in the Cayman Islands, and our VIEs, High Century, Sohu Entertainment, Sohu Internet, GoodFeel, Beijing Fire Fox, Tu Xing Tian Xia, Feng Yang Tian Lang, Sogou Information, 21 East Beijing, Gamease and New 21 East. We may need to rely on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by Sohu.com Limited for our cash requirements in excess of any cash raised from investors and retained by us. If Sohu Era, Sohu Media, Sohu Software, Sogou Technology, Go2Map Software and AmazGame incur debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict Sohu Era’s, Sohu Media’s, Sohu Software’s, Sogou Technology’s, Go2Map Software’s and AmazGame’s ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us through the intermediate companies. In addition, PRC legal restrictions permit payment of dividends by Sohu Era, Sohu Media, Sohu Software, Sogou Technology, Go2Map Software, and AmazGame only out of their net income, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Under PRC law, Sohu Era, Sohu Media, Sohu Software, Sogou Technology, Go2Map Software, and AmazGame are also required to set aside 10% of their net income each year to fund certain reserve funds until these reserves equal 50% of the amount of paid-in capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. We may not have exclusive rights over the marks that are crucial to our business, including but not limited to “Sohu.com”, “Sogou”, “17173”, “Focus.cn”, “GoodFeel”, “Go2Map”, “Blade Online”, “TLBB”, “DMD” and “Changyou”. We have applied for the registration of our key marks in the PRC, including but not limited to Sohu.com, Sogou, 17173, Focus.cn, GoodFeel, Go2Map, “Blade Online”, “TLBB”, “DMD” and “Changyou”, so as to establish and protect our exclusive rights to the marks. We have succeeded in registering the marks “Sohu.com”, “17173”, “Focus.cn”, “GoodFeel” and “Go2Map” in the PRC under certain classes. The applications for the registration of the other marks or some marks under other classes are still under examination by the Trademark Office of PRC. Completion of the registrations is subject to the Trademark Office of PRC’s determination that there are no prior rights in the PRC. Any rejection of these applications could adversely affect our rights to these marks. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties, and the expenses incurred in protecting our intellectual property rights, may adversely affect our business. We regard our copyrights, service marks, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property as critical to our success. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties may adversely affect our business and reputation. We rely on trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements with our employees, customers, business partners and others to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for third parties to obtain and use our intellectual property without authorization. For example, under the newly amended Patent Law of the PRC (promulgated by the NPC Standing Committee on December 27, 2008, and effective as of October 1, 2009), the State Council’s Patent Administration Department may grant a compulsory license to individuals or entities to use our patent, once our exploitation of the patent has been determined to be violate the antitrust laws. Furthermore, the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property in Internet-related industries are uncertain and still evolving. In particular, the laws of the PRC and certain other countries are uncertain or do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Moreover, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Future litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. -32- Table of Contents We may need to incur significant expenses to enforce our proprietary rights, and if we are unable to protect such rights, our competitive position could be harmed, especially for our online game business. We regard our proprietary software, domain names, trade names, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property as critical to our success. In particular, we have spent significant amounts of time and resources in developing our Sogou Pinyin and our in-house developed online game, TLBB, and our ability to protect our proprietary rights in connection with our products is critical for the success of this game and our overall financial performance. We have registered some of our software in China for copyright protection, including our Sogou Pinyin software and our TLBB software, and we have taken various measures to protect our source codes, including confidentiality agreements and segregation of source codes. However, we cannot assure you that our measures will be sufficient to protect our proprietary information. Intellectual property rights and confidentiality protection in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other developed countries. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology is difficult and expensive. Any steps we have taken to prevent the misappropriation of our proprietary technology may be inadequate. The validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property in Internet-related industries are uncertain and still evolving. In particular, the laws and enforcement procedures in the PRC are uncertain and do not protect intellectual property rights in Internet-related industries to the same extent as do the laws and enforcement procedures in the United States and other developed countries. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, we cannot assure you that other companies will not copy our ideas and designs, or that any third party will not infringe our intellectual property rights. For example, certain third parties have misappropriated the source codes of previous versions of TLBB and have set up unauthorized servers in China and elsewhere to operate TLBB to compete with us. As a result, we have taken measures to enforce our intellectual property rights. However, we cannot assure you that such measures will be successful in eliminating these unauthorized servers. The existence of unauthorized servers may attract game players away from our games and may result in a decrease in our online game revenues. Litigation relating to intellectual property right may result in substantial costs to us and diversion of our resources and management attention away from our business, and may not be successful. In addition, as our ideas and designs for our online games and Sogou Pinyin are not protected by patents, other competitors may independently develop ideas and designs that compete with us. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims, which may force us to incur substantial legal expenses and, if determined adversely against us, materially disrupt our business. We cannot be certain that our products, services and intellectual property used in our normal course of business do not or will not infringe valid patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. We have in the past been, are currently, and may in the future be, subject to claims and legal proceedings relating to the intellectual property of others in the ordinary course of our business. In particular, if we are found to have violated the intellectual property rights of others, we may be enjoined from using such intellectual property, may be ordered to pay a fine and may incur licensing fees or be forced to develop alternatives. We may incur substantial expenses in defending against these third party infringement claims, regardless of their merit. Successful infringement claims against us may result in substantial monetary liability or may materially disrupt the conduct of our business by restricting or prohibiting our use of the intellectual property in question. For example, during 2006 five United States movie companies commenced a lawsuit against us in the PRC alleging that a movie download service we had been providing infringed their copyrights in the movies. In December 2006, the court decided the case against us, and ordered us to pay damages of approximately $138,000 to the U.S. movie companies. In addition, in 2007 a writer brought a lawsuit against in China claiming that we violated his copyright to 190 SMS messages in 2007. The Chinese court decided the case against us, and we paid damages of approximately $13,000 to the writer. In addition, we provide search engine facilities capable of locating and accessing links to download MP3 music, movies, images and other multimedia files and/or other content hosted on third party Websites, which may be protected by copyright law. In March 2008, we were sued by four major record companies, Sony BMG, Warner, Universal and Gold Label, which alleged that we provided music search links and download services that violated copyrights they owned. As of December 31, 2008, the lawsuits with these four record companies were still in process. We may be subject to, and may expend significant resources in defending against claims based on the content and services we provide over all of our Websites. As our services may be used to download and distribute information to others, there is a risk that claims may be made against us for defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement or other claims based on the nature and content of such information. Furthermore, we could be subject to claims for the online activities of our visitors and incur significant costs in their defense. In the past, claims based on the nature and content of information that was posted online by visitors have been made in the United States against companies that provide online services. We do not carry any liability insurance against such risks. We could be exposed to liability for the selection of listings that may be accessible through our Websites or through content and materials that our visitors may post in classifieds, message boards, chat rooms or other interactive services. If any information provided through our services contains errors, third parties may make claims against us for losses incurred in reliance on the information. We also offer Web-based e-mail and subscription services, which expose us to potential liabilities or claims resulting from: • unsolicited e-mail; • lost or misdirected messages; -33- Table of Contents • illegal or fraudulent use of e-mail; or • interruptions or delays in e-mail service. Investigating and defending any such claims may be expensive, even if they do not result in liability. Activities of Internet content providers are or will be subject to additional PRC regulations, which have not yet been put into effect. Our operations may not be consistent with these new regulations when put into effect, and, as a result, we could be subject to severe penalties. The MIIT has stated that the activities of Internet content providers are subject to regulation by various PRC government authorities, depending on the specific activities conducted by the Internet content provider. Various government authorities have stated publicly that they are in the process of preparing new laws and regulations that will govern these activities. The areas of regulation currently include online advertising, online news reporting, online publishing, provision of online or wireless music, online securities trading, the provision of industry-specific (e.g., drug-related) information over the Internet and foreign investment in value-added telecommunication services. For instance, the MOC issued “Several Opinions of Development and Supervision of Online Music” in November 2006. In accordance with the requirements of the MOC, we have submitted most of the online music which we distributed in the PRC online or through wireless to the MOC for censoring and recording in March 2007. We may be required to be responsible for supervising nonprofit users’ distribution of online music on our portal. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we may be fined. Other aspects of our online operations may be subject to regulations in the future. Our operations may not be consistent with these new regulations when put into effect and, as a result, we may be subject to severe penalties as discussed above. Regulation and censorship of information distribution in China may adversely affect our business. China has enacted regulations governing Internet access and the distribution of news and other information. Furthermore, the Propaganda Department of the Chinese Communist Party has been given the responsibility to censor news published in China to ensure, supervise and control a particular political ideology. In addition, the MIIT has published implementing regulations that subject online information providers to potential liability for contents included in their portals and the actions of subscribers and others using their systems, including liability for violation of PRC laws prohibiting the distribution of content deemed to be socially destabilizing. Furthermore, the MIIT may implement a requirement that users of blogs register under their real names. If such a regulation is implemented, our business may be negatively affected due to a decrease in the number of blog users. Furthermore, because many PRC laws, regulations and legal requirements with regard to the Internet are relatively new and untested, their interpretation and enforcement may involve significant uncertainty. In addition, the PRC legal system is a civil law system in which decided legal cases have limited binding force as legal precedents. As a result, in many cases a Website operator may have difficulties determining the type of content that may subject it to liability. Periodically, the Ministry of Public Security has stopped the distribution over the Internet of information which it believes to be socially destabilizing. The Ministry of Public Security has the authority to require any local Internet service provider to block any Website maintained outside China at its sole discretion. If the PRC government were to take action to limit or eliminate the distribution of information through our portal or to limit or regulate current or future applications available to users of our portal, our business would be adversely affected. The State Secrecy Bureau, which is directly responsible for the protection of state secrets of all PRC government and Chinese Communist Party organizations, is authorized to block any Website it deems to be leaking state secrets or failing to meet the relevant regulations relating to the protection of state secrets in the distribution of online information. Under the applicable regulations, we may be held liable for any content transmitted on our portal. Furthermore, where the transmitted content clearly violates the laws of the PRC, we will be required to delete it. Moreover, if we consider transmitted content suspicious, we are required to report such content. We must also undergo computer security inspections, and if we fail to implement the relevant safeguards against security breaches, we may be shut down. In addition, under recently adopted regulations, Internet companies which provide bulletin board systems, chat rooms or similar services, such as our company, must apply for the approval of the State Secrecy Bureau. As the implementing rules of these new regulations have not been issued, we do not know how or when we will be expected to comply, or how our business will be affected by the application of these regulations. We may be subject to the PRC government’s ongoing Internet crackdown on “vulgar” content. In early 2009, the Ministry of Public Security and six other PRC government agencies jointly launched a crackdown against major websites that are accused of threatening morals by spreading pornography and vulgarity. The websites affected are all of the dominant search engines and portals, including us. This is a nationwide campaign to clean up vulgar content currently available on the Internet and has exposed a large quantity of material that the PRC government agencies believe violates public morality and harms the physical and mental health of the youth and young people. We have deleted all webpages with allegedly vulgar material from our relevant channels and communities. In addition, we have strengthened our internal censorship and supervision of links and content uploaded by the users. We have not, to date, received any penalty from PRC government in this regard. However, there is no assurance that content considered vulgar by the PRC government agencies will not appear in the future. In the event that we are accused by the government of hosting vulgar content, our reputation could be adversely affected. -34- Table of Contents Political, economic and social policies of the PRC government could affect our business. All of our business, operating assets, fixed assets and operations are located in China, and all of our revenues are derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our business may be adversely affected by changes in political, economic or social conditions in China, adjustments in PRC government policies or changes in laws and regulations. The economy of China differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in a number of respects, including: • structure; • level of government involvement; • level of development; • level of capital reinvestment; • growth rate; • control of foreign exchange; and • methods of allocating resources. Since 1949, China has been primarily a planned economy subject to a system of macroeconomic management. Although the PRC government still owns a significant portion of the productive assets in China, economic reform policies since the late 1970s have emphasized decentralization, autonomous enterprises and the utilization of market mechanisms. We cannot predict the future effects of the economic reform and macroeconomic measures adopted by the PRC government on our business or results of operations. Furthermore, the PRC government began to focus more attention on social issues in recent years and have promulgated or may promulgate additional laws or regulations on this area, which could affect our business in China. For example, in July 2007, the PRC government issued the new Employment Contract Law, effective from January 1, 2008, providing more employment protection to employees in China. Although we believe that this will enhance our general staff moral and loyalty, we may incur additional staff costs in the future. The PRC legal system embodies uncertainties which could limit the legal protections available to us and you, or could lead to penalties on us. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. Our PRC operating subsidiaries, Sohu Era, Sohu Media, Sohu Software, Sogou Technology, Go2Map Software and AmazGame are wholly-foreign owned enterprises (or WFOEs), which are enterprises incorporated in China and wholly-owned by our indirect subsidiary, Sohu Hong Kong. Sohu Era, Sohu Media, Sohu Software, Sogou Technology, Go2Map Software and AmazGame are subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China. In addition, all of our subsidiaries and VIEs are incorporated in China and subject to all applicable Chinese laws and regulations. Because of the relatively short period for enacting such a comprehensive legal system, it is possible that the laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us and other foreign investors, including you, and may lead to penalties imposed on us because of the different understanding between the relevant authority and us. For example, according to current tax laws and regulation, we are responsible to pay business tax on a “Self-examination and Self-application” basis. However, since there is no clear guidance as to the applicability of those preferential treatments, we may be found in violation of the interpretation of local tax authorities with regard to the scope of taxable services and the percentage of tax rate and therefore might be subject to penalties, including but not limited to monetary penalties. In addition, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the PRC legal system, particularly with regard to the Internet, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. It may be difficult to enforce any civil judgments against us or our board of directors or officers, because most of our operating and/or fixed assets are located outside of the United States. Although we are incorporated in the State of Delaware, most of our operating and fixed assets are located in the PRC. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to enforce judgments outside the United States obtained in actions brought against us in the United States, including actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States or of the securities laws of any state of the United States. In addition, certain of our directors and officers (principally based in the PRC) and all or a substantial portion of their assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon those directors and officers, or to enforce against them or us judgments obtained in United States courts, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States or of the securities laws of any state of the United States. We have been advised by our PRC counsel that, in their opinion, there is doubt as to the enforceability in the PRC, in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of United States courts, of civil liabilities predicated solely upon the federal securities laws of the United States or the securities laws of any state of the United States. -35- Table of Contents If the status of PRC subsidiary and VIE as “New Technology Enterprise” or “Software Enterprise” are revoked, we may have to pay additional taxes to make up any previously unpaid tax and may be subject to a higher tax rate, which may materially and adversely affect our results of operations. In March 2007, the Chinese government enacted the Corporate Income Tax Law, and promulgated related regulation Implementing Regulations for the PRC Corporate Income Tax Law. The law and regulation went into effect on January 1, 2008. The Corporate Income Tax Law imposes, amongst others, a unified income tax rate of 25% for both domestic and foreign invested enterprises. New Technology Enterprises will enjoy a favorable tax rate of 15%. The Implementing Regulations for the PRC Corporate Income Tax Law also emphasizes that the ownership of “core proprietary intellectual property” is essential to qualification for this preferential tax rate. The Corporate Income Tax Law also provides a five-year transitional period for those entities established before March 16, 2007, which enjoyed a favorable income tax rate of less than 25% under the previous income tax laws, to gradually change their rates to 25%. In addition, the Corporate Income Tax Law provides grandfather treatment for enterprises which were qualified as “New Technology Enterprise” under the previous income tax laws and were established before March 16, 2007, if they continue to meet the criteria for New Technology Enterprises after January 1, 2008. The grandfather provision allows these enterprises continue to enjoy their unexpired tax holiday provided by the previous income tax laws and rules. In the year of 2008, Sohu Era, Sohu Media, and Sogou Technology have been qualified as New Technology Enterprises and enjoyed their unexpired tax holidays, and AmazGame and Gamease have been qualified as Software Enterprises and enjoyed a 0% tax rate in 2008 and will be subject to a 12.5% tax rate for the subsequent three years under the new Corporate Income Tax Law and the relevant regulations. As the new Corporate Income Tax Law and its implementation rules only recently went into effect, there are uncertainties on their future interpretation and implementation. We cannot assure you that the New Technology Enterprise and Software Enterprise qualifications of those operating entities will not be challenged by higher level tax authorities and be repealed, or that there will not be any future implementation rules that are inconsistent with current interpretation of the Corporate Income Tax Law. If those operating entities cannot qualify for such income tax holidays, our effective income tax rate will be increased significantly and we may have to pay additional income tax to make up the previously unpaid tax, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Dividends we receive from our operating subsidiaries located in the PRC may be subject to PRC withholding tax. The Corporate Income Tax Law imposes, amongst others, that a maximum income tax rate of 20% may be applicable to dividends payable to non-PRC investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” to the extent that such dividends are derived from sources within the PRC, and the State Council has reduced such rate to 10% through the Implementing Regulations for the PRC Corporate Income Tax Law. A lower withholding tax rate will be applied if there is a tax treaty arrangement between China and the jurisdiction of the foreign holding companies, such as Hong Kong, which will be taxed at 5%. All of the China-based subsidiaries are invested by immediate foreign holding companies in Hong Kong, with the exception of Sogou Technology and New Software. All of these foreign-invested enterprises are subjected to the withholding tax from January 1, 2008. In the fourth quarter of 2008, AmazGame declared a dividend to its immediate holding company in Hong Kong and we accrued a withholding tax of approximately $5.0 million based on 5% withholding tax rate. Except for this, since we intend to reinvest our earnings to further expand our businesses in China, our foreign-invested enterprises do not intend to declare dividends to their immediate foreign holding companies in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, as of December 31, 2008, we have not recorded any other withholding tax on the retained earnings of our foreign-invested enterprises in China. Our subsidiaries and VIEs in China are subject to restrictions on paying dividends or making other payments to our overseas entities. We may depend on Sohu.com Limited dividend payments which are generated from our subsidiaries in China after they receive payments from our VIEs under various services and other arrangements. It is possible that our Chinese subsidiaries will not continue to receive the payments in accordance with our contracts with our VIEs. To the extent that the VIEs have undistributed after tax net income, we must pay tax on behalf of our employees who hold interests in the VIEs when the VIEs distribute dividends in the future. The current individual income tax rate is 20%. In addition, under PRC law, our Chinese subsidiaries are required to set aside at least 10% of their respective accumulated profits, up to 50% of their registered capital, to fund certain mandated reserve funds that are not payable or distributable as cash dividends. The PRC government also imposes controls on the convertibility of RMB into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currencies out of China. We may experience difficulties in completing the administrative procedures necessary to obtain and remit foreign currencies. If we or any of our subsidiaries are unable to receive all of the revenues from our operations through these contractual or dividend arrangements, we may be unable to effectively finance our operations or pay dividends on our shares. We may be deemed a PRC resident enterprise under the Corporate Income Tax Law and be subject to the PRC taxation on our worldwide income. The Corporate Income Tax Law provides that enterprises established outside of China whose “de facto management bodies” are located within China are considered “resident enterprises” and are generally subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate on their worldwide income (including dividend income received from subsidiaries). Under the Implementing Regulations for the Corporate Income Tax Law, “de facto management body” is defined as a body that has material and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel and human resources, finances and treasury, and acquisition and -36- Table of Contents disposition of properties and other assets of an enterprise. Although substantially all of our operational management is currently based in the PRC, it is unclear whether PRC tax authorities would require (or permit) us to be treated as a PRC-resident enterprise. If we were treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes, we will be subject to PRC tax on our worldwide income at the 25% uniform tax rate, which could have an impact on our effective tax rate and an adverse effect on our net income and the results of operations, although dividends distributed from our PRC subsidiaries to us could be exempted from Chinese dividend withholding tax, since such income is exempted under the new Corporate Income Tax Law for PRC-resident recipient. Dividends payable by us to our foreign investors and profits on the sale of our shares may be subject to tax under PRC tax laws. Under the Implementing Regulations for the Corporate Income Tax Law, PRC income tax at the rate of 10% is applicable to dividends payable to investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” not having an establishment or place of business in the PRC, or which do have such establishment or place of business but the relevant income is not effectively connected with the establishment or place of business, to the extent that such dividends have their sources within the PRC. Similarly, any profits realized through the transfer of shares by such investors are also subject to 10% PRC income tax if such profits are regarded as income derived from sources within the PRC. If we are considered a PRC “resident enterprise,” it is unclear whether dividends we pay with respect to our share, or the profits you may realize from the transfer of our shares, would be treated as income derived from sources within the PRC and be subject to PRC tax. If we are required under the Implementing Regulations for the Corporate Income Tax Law to withhold PRC income tax on dividends payable to our non-PRC investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” or if you are required to pay PRC income tax on the transfer of our shares, the value of your investment in our shares may be materially and adversely affected. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize our revenues effectively. Substantially all of our revenues and operating expenses are denominated in RMB. The RMB is currently freely convertible under the “current account”, which includes dividends, trade and service related foreign exchange transactions, but not under the “capital account”, which includes foreign direct investment. Currently, our China-based subsidiaries may purchase foreign exchange for settlement of “current account transactions”, including payment of dividends, without the approval of the State Administration for Foreign Exchange (or SAFE). Our China-based subsidiaries may also retain foreign exchange in its current account (subject to a ceiling approved by the SAFE) to satisfy foreign exchange liabilities or to pay dividends. However, the relevant PRC governmental authorities may limit or eliminate our ability to purchase and retain foreign currencies in the future. Since a significant amount of our future revenues will be in the form of RMB, the existing and any future restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize revenue generated in RMB to fund our business activities outside China, if any, or expenditures denominated in foreign currencies. Foreign exchange transactions under the capital account are still subject to limitations and require approvals from the SAFE. This could affect our China-based subsidiaries’ ability to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing, including by means of loans or capital contributions from us. We may suffer currency exchange losses if the RMB depreciates relative to the US Dollar. Our reporting currency is the US Dollar. However, substantially all of our revenues are denominated in RMB. In July 2005, China reformed its exchange rate regime by establishing a managed floating exchange rate regime based on market supply and demand with reference to a basket of currencies. The RMB is no longer pegged to the US dollar and the exchange rate will have some flexibility. Hence, considering the floating exchange rate regime, if the RMB depreciates relative to the US Dollar, our revenues as expressed in our US Dollar financial statements will decline in value. On May 19, 2007, the People’s Bank of China announced a policy to expand the maximum daily floating range of RMB trading prices against the U.S. dollar in the inter-bank spot foreign exchange market from 0.3% to 0.5%. While the international reactions to the RMB revaluation and widening of the RMB’s daily trading band have generally been positive, with the increased floating range of the RMB’s value against foreign currencies, the RMB may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar or other foreign currencies in the long term, depending on the fluctuation of the basket of currencies against which it is currently valued. In addition, there are very limited hedging transactions available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure, if at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert RMB into US Dollars. The market price of our common stock has been and will likely continue to be volatile. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, which may make it difficult for stockholders to sell shares of our common stock when desired or at attractive prices. The market price of our common stock has been volatile and is likely to continue to be so. The initial public offering price of our common stock in July 2000 was $13.00 per share. The trading price of our common stock subsequently dropped to a low of $0.52 per share on April 9, 2001. During 2007, the trading price of our common stock ranged from a low of $20.94 per share to a high of $64.83 per share. During 2008, the trading price of our common stock ranged from a low of $34.10 per share to a high of $91.50 per share. On February 25, 2009, the closing price of our common stock was $49.38 per share. -37- Table of Contents In addition, the Nasdaq Stock Market’s National Market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for the securities of technology companies, and particularly Internet-related companies. The price for our common stock may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new products and media properties by us or our competitors, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us, and news reports relating to trends in our markets or general economic conditions. Additionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, all of whom have been granted stock options or other stock awards. We are controlled by a small group of our existing stockholders, whose interests may differ from other stockholders. Our Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Zhang, beneficially owns approximately 19% of the outstanding shares of our common stock and is our largest stockholder. Our Chief Executive Officer, together with our other executive officers and members of our Board of Directors, beneficially own approximately 22% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Accordingly these stockholders acting together will have significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the stockholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations, the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. They will also have significant influence in preventing or causing a change in control. In addition, without the consent of these stockholders, we may be prevented from entering into transactions that could be beneficial to us. The interests of these stockholders may differ from the interests of the other stockholders. Anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, our certificate of incorporation and Sohu’s Stockholder Rights Plan could delay or deter a change in control. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, as well as various provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, may make it more difficult to acquire our company or effect a change in control of our company, even if an acquisition or change in control would be in the interest of our stockholders or if an acquisition or change in control would provide our stockholders with a premium for their shares over then current market prices. For example, our certificate of incorporation provides for the division of the board of directors into two classes with staggered two-year terms and provides that stockholders have no right to take action by written consent and may not call special meetings of stockholders, each of which may make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our board in connection with, or obtain any necessary stockholder approval for, a proposed acquisition or change in control. In addition, we have adopted a stockholder rights plan under the terms of which, in general, if a person or group acquires more than 20% of the outstanding shares of common stock, all other Sohu stockholders would have the right to purchase securities from Sohu at a substantial discount to those securities’ fair market value, thus causing substantial dilution to the holdings of the person or group which acquires more than 20%. The stockholder rights plan may inhibit a change in control and, therefore, could adversely affect the stockholders’ ability to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for the common stock in connection with such a transaction. The power of our Board of Directors to designate and issue shares of preferred stock could have an adverse effect on holders of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to designate and issue one or more series of preferred stock, having rights and preferences as the board may determine, and any such designations and issuances could have an adverse effect on the rights of holders of common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 