ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors This report contains forward-looking statements regarding our business and expected future performance as well as assumptions underlying or relating to such statements of expectation, all of which are “forward looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We are subject to many risks and uncertainties that may materially affect our business and future performance and cause those forward-looking statements to be inaccurate. Words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “forecasts,” “estimates,” “seeks,” “may result in,” “focused on,” “continue to,” and similar expressions often identify forward-looking statements. In this report, forward-looking statements include, without limitation, the following: • Our expectations and beliefs regarding future conduct and growth of our business; • Our beliefs regarding the impact of global economic instability on our business; • Our expectations regarding the costs and other effects of acquisition and disposition transactions; • Our expectations regarding channel partners and the anticipated timing and magnitude of revenue from these partners; • Our expectations regarding our ability to deliver premium technology services efficiently; • Our assessments and expectations surrounding revenue levels and Segment Operating Profitability of our Enterprise business; • Our ability to hire, train and retain technical support agents; • Our beliefs and expectations regarding the introduction of new products and related services and features; • Our expectations regarding cash flows and expenses, including sales and marketing, research and development efforts, and administrative expenses; • Our assessment of seasonality, mix of revenue, and other trends for our business; • Our assessments and beliefs regarding the future outcome of pending legal proceedings and the liability, if any, that we may incur as a result of those proceedings; 12 Table of Contents • The assumptions underlying our Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates, including our assumptions regarding revenue recognition; assumptions used to estimate the fair value of share-based compensation; assumptions regarding the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets; and expected accounting for income taxes; and • The expected effects of the adoption of new accounting standards. An investment in our stock involves risk, and we caution investors that forward-looking statements are only predictions based on our current expectations about future events and are not guarantees of future performance. We encourage you to read carefully all information provided in this report and in our other filings with the SEC before deciding to invest in our stock or to maintain or change your investment. Forward-looking statements are based on information as of the filing date of this report, and we undertake no obligation to publicly revise or update any forward-looking statement for any reason. Because forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from our stated expectations. These factors are described below. This list does not include all risks that could affect our business, and if these or any other risks or uncertainties materialize, or if our underlying assumptions prove to be inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and from our expected future results. We have not been profitable and may not achieve profitability in future periods. We were not profitable in 2008 and as of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $109.7 million. In addition, we intend to make significant investments in support of our business in 2009 and we expect to continue to sustain losses in 2009 and subsequent periods. If we fail to achieve revenue growth as a result of these additional investments or if such revenue growth does not result in our achieving profitability, the market price of our common stock will likely decline further. A sustained period of losses would also result in an increased usage of cash to fund our operating activities and a corresponding reduction in our cash balance. Our quarterly results have in the past, and may in the future, fluctuate significantly. Our quarterly revenue and operating results have in the past and may in the future fluctuate from quarter to quarter. As a result, we believe that quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year comparisons of our revenue and operating results may not be accurate indicators of future performance. Several factors that have contributed or may in the future contribute to fluctuations in our operating results include: • Demand for our software and services; • Instability in the global macroeconomic climate and its effect on our, our customers’ and our channel partners’ operations; • The performance of our channel partners for our Consumer services including retailers; • Size and timing of customer orders and our ability to recognize revenue in a given quarter; • The rate of expansion of our Consumer offerings and our investments therein; • Our ability to increase the efficiency and capacity of our technical support agents; • Our ability to achieve Segment Operating Profitability in our Enterprise segment; • Our reliance on a small number of customers and channel partners for a substantial portion of our revenue; • The price and mix of products and services we or our competitors offer; 13 Table of Contents • The mix of products and services that generate up-front revenue as opposed to revenue over a period of time; • Our ability to attract and retain customers; • Our ability to adapt to our customers’ needs in a market space defined by frequent technological change; • The amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures in our business; • Seasonal trends resulting from corporate spending patterns; • The exercise of judgment by our management in making accounting decisions in accordance with our accounting policies; and • Potential losses on investments, foreign exchange exposures on contracts, or other losses from financial instruments we may hold that are exposed to market risk. Over the last three years, we have licensed our Enterprise software predominately on a perpetual basis in which we recognize the license revenue up front, assuming all criteria for revenue recognition have been met. As a result of our current perpetual licensing model for the Enterprise business, we have become dependent on a few customer contracts with up-front license revenue for a substantial portion of our license revenue in any one quarter. In addition, a significant portion of our total revenue each quarter comes from a number of orders received in the last month of a quarter. In certain previous quarters, we failed to obtain or close expected perpetual licenses with up-front revenue resulting in a revenue shortfall. If in future quarters we fail to obtain or close orders expected to be completed by the end of a quarter, particularly if these orders are for perpetual licenses with up-front revenue, our quarterly results would suffer and the market price of our common stock would likely decline. While revenues in our Consumer business are generally recognized over the course of a quarter based on the number of services delivered, this revenue may not be significant enough to offset a shortfall in our Enterprise perpetual license revenue. Economic instability may harm our operating results and the financial condition of both our Enterprise and Consumer segments. As has been widely reported, the economies of the United States and foreign countries have been experiencing extreme disruption, including, among other things, higher mortgage delinquencies, increased unemployment, decreased consumer spending, highly volatile securities markets, diminished liquidity and credit availability, currency fluctuation, and downgrades and declining valuations of certain investments. These economic developments potentially affect our business in several ways. Our customers and prospects may be unable to obtain financing for major purchases and operations, they may reduce their spending or delay or cancel programs that include our offerings and they may be unable to pay us in a timely fashion. Our channel partners, such as retailers, may be unable to invest in bringing our Consumer services to market. While we monitor these situations carefully and attempt to take appropriate measures to protect ourselves by recognizing revenue upon collection of accounts from customers we deem to have credit risks and upon sell-through by resellers, it is possible that we may have to write down or write off doubtful accounts. Such write-downs or write-offs would negatively affect our operating results for the period in which they occur and, if large enough, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Our global business, including our investment portfolio, may be harmed by general decreases in economic activity, including decreases in business and consumer spending and uncertainty due to economic disruptions and government intervention in the financial markets. We cannot predict the duration and severity of the current disruption in the macroeconomic climate and market conditions, and these conditions may harm our operating results. Our Consumer segment will increase our operating expenses without any assurance of yielding increased revenue, and our Consumer offerings may not achieve market acceptance. We are executing a plan to extend our Consumer business by providing premium technology services to consumers both through channel partners and directly. We may not be able to continue to offer these services 14 Table of Contents successfully. We have limited experience in reaching or serving consumers and in managing technical support agents. All of our North American technical support agents are now home-based, which will require a high degree of coordination and quality control of employees working from diverse and remote locations. As a result, we expect to continue to use significant cash and incur increased operating expenses to support this initiative, including costs associated with recruiting, training and managing our technical support agents, costs to develop and acquire technology and infrastructure to support our Consumer business, promotional costs associated with reaching consumers, and costs of obtaining personnel with the necessary consumer expertise. These investments, which typically are made in advance of revenue, may not yield increased revenue to offset these expenses. Furthermore, this new business initiative, if not favorably received by consumers, could damage the reputation of our Enterprise business as well as strain our management, financial and operational resources necessary to maintain our Enterprise business. The lack of market acceptance of our Consumer efforts or our inability to generate satisfactory revenue from our expanded consumer services would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. Our failure to establish and expand successful third-party alliances to sell our products and services would harm our operating results. Our Consumer offerings require us to establish and maintain relationships with third parties, including retailers such as Office Depot, who market and sell our premium technology services. Failure to establish or maintain third-party relationships in our Consumer business, particularly with firms that sell our services, on acceptable terms or at all, could materially and adversely affect the success of our business. We sell to numerous consumers through each of these channel partners, and therefore a delay in the launch or rollout of our Consumer services program with even one of these channel partners could cause us to miss revenue targets. The process of establishing a relationship with a channel partner can be complex and time consuming, and we must pass multiple levels of review and test marketing in order to be selected. If we are unable to establish a sufficient number of new channel partners on a timely basis our sales will suffer. There is also the risk that, once established, our programs with these channel partners may take longer than we expect to produce revenue or may not produce revenue at all. One or more of our key channel partners may also discontinue selling our services, offer them only on a limited basis or devote insufficient time and attention to promoting them to their customers. If any of these key channel partners merge with a competitor, particularly one that offers a service competitive with ours, all of these risks could be exacerbated. Each of these risks could reduce our sales and significantly harm our operating results. We also have alliances with third parties that are important to our Enterprise offerings. Our existing relationships include those with hardware vendors and managed service providers who provide outsourced support to corporate customers. If these relationships fail, we may need to devote more resources to the sales and marketing of our products and services than we would otherwise, and our efforts may not be as effective. In addition, we may establish relationships with third-party resellers and other sales channel partners as we expand internationally. Our failure to maintain existing relationships, or to establish new relationships with key third parties, could significantly harm our ability to sell our products and services. In addition, our competitors may have strong alliances with other companies, including hardware providers, which could impact our ability to obtain greater market share, participate in deals where hardware and software are sold together, or require us to reduce the price of products and services, which could harm our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. Our inability to meet future financial performance targets that we announce or that are published by research analysts could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. From time to time, we provide guidance related to our future financial performance. In addition, financial analysts publish their own expectations of our future financial performance. Because our quarterly revenue and our operating results fluctuate, future financial performance is difficult to predict. In the past, we have failed to meet our guidance. As it did following the announcement of our third quarter results in 2007, future downward 15 Table of Contents adjustments of our guidance or the failure to meet our guidance or the expectations of research analysts would likely cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our guidance is based in part upon the expectation of sales of services offerings in our Consumer business, with which we have a limited history. A significant portion of our Consumer business is dependent upon third-party alliances, including an alliance with Office Depot. We sell to numerous consumers through these channel partners, and these programs often require a significant initial investment of resources, strategic focus, and time before generating revenue. Accordingly, the timing of the rollout of our services by each channel partner, and therefore the timing of our revenue associated with that channel partner, is difficult to predict. Delay in the launch or rollout of our support services program in even one of these alliances could cause us to miss revenue targets, particularly in the near term, since we depend on only a few alliances for most of our Consumer revenue. In addition, in the event we fail to achieve projected revenue levels in any quarter, we will be unable to reduce our expenses for that quarter in a corresponding fashion, and our results will not meet our guidance or the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which would likely cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Management’s ability to accurately predict performance is also affected in large part by a significant portion of our total revenue being dependent upon the closing of new large license orders in our Enterprise business. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. We do not control these analysts. If one or more of the analysts who currently cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price would likely decline rapidly. Furthermore, if one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause the market price of our stock to decline. Finally, the market prices of software companies have been extremely volatile. Stock prices of many software companies have often fluctuated in a manner unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. In the past, following periods of market volatility, stockholders have often instituted securities class action litigation relating to the stock trading and price volatility of the software company in question, including the litigation that SupportSoft is a party to referred to under Item 3—Legal Proceedings. Any securities litigation we are involved in could result in our incurring substantial defense costs and diverting resources and the attention of management from our business. If we fail to hire, train and manage our Consumer technical support agents efficiently and in a manner that provides an adequate level of support for our customers, our reputation and revenues could be harmed. Our plans for our Consumer business depend in part on our ability to attract, manage and retain our consumer technical support agents in North America in order to satisfy the demand for our Consumer services. We may be unable to hire, train and manage adequate numbers of competent technical support agents, which is essential in creating a favorable interactive customer experience, including reducing customer wait times, reducing the time it takes our technical support agents to deliver our services, and meeting customer demand for our services at peak time. We have limited experience in hiring, training, and managing these technical support agents. Although our service delivery and communications infrastructure enables us to monitor and manage these technical support agents remotely, because they are home-based and geographically dispersed, it is more difficult to directly supervise their work. Any problems we encounter retaining technical support agents could seriously jeopardize our service delivery operations and our Consumer revenue. If we are unable to continually provide adequate staffing for our service delivery operations, our revenue and reputation could be seriously harmed. From time to time, we enter into relationships with outsourcers to provide technical support services to customers located outside North America and to provide on-site services for certain North American customers. We may be less able to manage the quality of services provided by outsourced technical support agents or 16 Table of Contents third-party onsite service providers as directly as we would our own employees. In addition, outsourced services may be more costly. We also face the risk that disruptions or delays in outsourcers’ communications and information technology infrastructure could cause lengthy interruptions in the availability of our services. Any of these risks could harm our operating results. We may engage in investments, dispositions, acquisitions or other strategic transactions that could reduce our cash balance, divert management attention and prove difficult to integrate with our business. We may engage in acquisitions or divestitures of certain assets, businesses, products or technologies, or in other strategic initiatives. For example, in 2008 we completed the acquisition of YourTechOnline.com. Acquisitions, divestitures and other strategic transactions are inherently risky. Certain transactions may be subject to closing conditions, which may not be satisfied, and transactions may not be completed, even after public announcement. Acquisitions may require further use of our cash resources, the issuance of equity or debt securities, or the incurrence of other forms of debt, any of which could harm our financial condition, results of operations, or our interest expense and leverage. If we issue equity securities, current stockholders’ percentage ownership and earnings per share may be diluted. The process of integrating employees, businesses, technologies, services or products may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Dispositions could significantly alter the revenue, costs and nature of our business. Acquisitions and divestitures could involve a number of other potential risks to our business, including the following, any of which could harm our business results: • Unanticipated costs and liabilities and unforeseen accounting charges or fluctuations; • Delays and difficulties in delivery of products and services; • Failure to effectively integrate or separate management information systems, personnel, research and development, marketing, sales and support operations; • Loss of key employees; • Economic dilution to gross and operating profit; • Diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns and disruption of our ongoing business; • Difficulty in maintaining controls and procedures; • Uncertainty on the part of our existing customers about our ability to operate after a transaction; • Loss of customers; • Loss of alliances; • Declines in revenue and increases in losses following divestitures; • Failure to realize the potential financial or strategic benefits of the acquisition or divestiture; and • Failure to successfully further develop the combined or remaining technology, resulting in the impairment of amounts recorded as goodwill or other intangible assets. Disruptions in our information technology and service delivery infrastructure and operations, including interruptions or delays in service from our third-party web hosting provider, could impair the delivery of our services and harm our business. Our operations, and in particular our hosted products and Consumer services, depend on the continuing operation of our information technology and communication systems and those of our external service providers. Any damage to or failure of those systems could result in interruptions in our service, which could reduce our revenues and profits and damage our reputation. We serve certain of our customers through a third-party hosting facility located in the United States. We do not control the operation of this facility. It may experience unplanned 17 Table of Contents outages and other technical difficulties, and it is vulnerable to damage or interruption from fires, floods, earthquakes, telecommunications and connectivity failures, power failures, and similar events. This facility is also subject to risks from vandalism, break-ins, intrusion, and other malicious attacks. Despite precautions taken, such as disaster recovery planning and back-up procedures, a natural disaster, act of terrorism or other unanticipated problem could cause a loss of information and data and lengthy interruptions in the availability of our services and hosted software offerings because we do not operate or maintain fully redundant systems. We rely on hosted systems maintained by third-party providers to deliver technical support services to consumers, including taking customer orders, handling telecommunications for customer calls, and tracking sales and service delivery. Any interruption or failure of our internal or external systems could prevent us or our service providers from accepting orders and delivering services, or cause company and customer data to be unintentionally disclosed. Our continuing efforts to upgrade and enhance the security and reliability of our information technology and communications infrastructure could be very costly, and we may have to expend significant resources to remedy problems such as a security breach or service interruption. Interruptions in our services resulting from labor disputes, telephone or Internet failures, power or service outages, natural disasters or other events, or a security breach could reduce our revenue, increase our costs, cause customers and channel partners to fail to renew or to terminate their use of our offerings, and harm our reputation and our ability to attract new customers. Because a small number of customers and channel partners have historically accounted for and may in future periods account for substantial portions of our revenue, delays of specific programs or losses of certain customers could decrease our revenue. A small number of customers and channel partners have historically accounted for, and may in future periods account for, substantial portions of our revenue. For the fourth quarter of 2008, two companies, Customer A and Customer B accounted for 22% and 12% of total revenue, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2008, two companies, Customer A and Customer C accounted for 11% and 13% of our total revenue, respectively. In 2009, we are likely to continue to derive a significant portion of our revenue from transactions with a limited number of customers and channel partners. Therefore, our revenue could decline because of the loss of a single customer or delay of a significant program by a consumer partner. Additionally, we may not obtain new customers. The failure to obtain significant new customers or alliances, the loss or delay of significant customer orders, the failure to establish and grow additional channel partners and the failure to receive fees for products or services delivered would harm our operating results. If existing customers in our Enterprise business do not renew maintenance contracts or purchase additional products and services, our operating results could suffer. Historically, we have derived, and expect to continue to derive, a significant portion of our total revenue from existing Enterprise customers who purchase additional products and services and renew maintenance contracts. Our customers may not renew maintenance contracts, they may renew on less favorable terms or at a reduced level of support, or they may not purchase additional products and services. Also, instability in the current macroeconomic climate may cause certain customers to spend less on services or on maintenance renewals. In addition, as we introduce new products, our current customers may not require or desire the functionality of our new products and may not ultimately purchase these products. Fewer new license customers or renewals in one period may lead to a decrease in the amount of maintenance revenue in subsequent periods. If our customers do not renew maintenance contracts or do not purchase additional products and services, our revenue would decline and our operating results would suffer. Our sales cycle in our Enterprise business is lengthy and if revenue forecasted for a particular quarter is not realized in that quarter, significant expenses incurred may not be offset by corresponding revenue. Our sales cycle for our software in our Enterprise business typically ranges from three to nine months or more and may vary substantially from customer to customer. The purchase of our products and services for 18 Table of Contents corporate customers generally involves a significant commitment of capital and other resources by a customer. This commitment often requires significant technical review, assessment of competitive products and approval at a number of management levels within a customer’s organization. While our Enterprise customers are evaluating our products and services, we may incur substantial sales and marketing expenses and spend significant management effort to complete these sales. Any delay in completing sales in a particular quarter or the failure to complete a sale after expending resources during the sales cycle could cause our operating results to suffer. We may be unable to sustain Segment Operating Profitability in our Enterprise segment if we do not manage costs effectively. One of our goals for 2009 is to deliver Segment Operating Profitability in our Enterprise segment. Our ability to do so is heavily dependent on our ability to manage costs, including costs of professional services, licenses and maintenance. Our ability to maintain Segment Operating Profitability will also be hampered to the extent that our Enterprise revenue decreases, including due to macroeconomic factors. The cost of delivering our professional services is expensive and if unanticipated factors in a project are encountered, we may be subject to monetary and other significant penalties, and the operating results from our Enterprise business would suffer. While substantially smaller than the cost of professional services, our costs of license and costs of maintenance nevertheless represent an important portion of the Enterprise segment’s costs. If we do not manage these costs in line with our revenue, the Enterprise segment’s operating performance would deteriorate. In addition, if we are unable to manage costs in our Enterprise segment for research and development or sales and marketing, our Enterprise segment may not be able to sustain Segment Operating Profitability. If our revenue from our international operations does not exceed the expense of establishing and maintaining international operations, our business would suffer. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, international revenue was 23%, 24% and 23% of our total revenue, respectively. We may not be able to compete effectively in international markets or effectively manage our operations in various countries, including our relatively new Consumer operations. We must make significant investments ahead of revenue in order to launch new programs, and these costs may be higher outside North America. If we do not generate enough revenue from international operations to offset the expense of these operations in either segment, our operating results would suffer. Risks we face in conducting business internationally include: • Expenses related to and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations, including managing a geographically dispersed workforce in compliance with diverse local laws and customs; • Changes in currency exchange rates and controls; • Localization of our products, services, and end user terms; • Competition from local providers who may have lower costs and more familiarity with local markets; • Compliance with a variety of complex laws and treaties, including unexpected changes in (or new) legislative or regulatory requirements; • Differing technology standards, intellectual property protections, consumer protection and data privacy standards, and other legal considerations; • Lower prices for software and services; • Difficulty in reaching geographically dispersed customers; • Loss of proprietary information due to piracy, misappropriation or weaker laws regarding intellectual property; • Longer sales cycles; • Seasonal trends unique to international markets; 19 Table of Contents • Dependence on local vendors, consultants and business partners; • Potential adverse tax consequences; • Licenses, tariffs and other trade barriers; • Difficulties in maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and compliance as a result of a geographically-dispersed workforce and customers; • Longer collection cycles for accounts receivable; and • The effects of external events such as terrorist acts and any related conflicts or similar events worldwide. Each of these risks could materially increase our costs, and unless the revenue from our international operations offsets the costs of establishing and operating our business outside the U.S., our operating results could be significantly harmed. Our investments in marketable securities are subject to market risks which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. We have historically invested our portfolio in government debt securities, municipal debt securities with an auction reset feature (“auction-rate securities”), corporate notes and bonds, commercial paper and money market funds meeting certain criteria. At December 31, 2008, we had $64.3 million in cash and cash equivalents and $23.6 million in short-term and long-term investments. Certain of these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by the global macroeconomic downturn that, among other things, has caused credit and liquidity issues. Commencing in February 2008, illiquidity conditions in the global credit markets resulted in failed auctions for all of our auction-rate securities held. In the near term, our ability to liquidate our investments or fully recover the carrying values may be limited or not exist. In addition, adverse market events could cause us to lose part or all of our investment in our portfolio. The market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have a negative adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Financing arrangements that are available to us include the right to a loan from UBS at no net cost for up to the amount of the par value of our eligible auction-rate securities. This loan option is part of the rights offer we signed with UBS in November, 2008, and is available until June 30, 2010. As of December 31, 2008, we had not exercised our right to obtain this loan. We may realize losses on our investments in auction rate securities or be unable to liquidate these investments at desired times in desired amounts. At December 31, 2008, we held $24.5 million, par value, of auction rate securities (ARS). Historically, our ARS were highly liquid, and used a Dutch auction process that resets the applicable interest rate at predetermined intervals, typically every 28 to 35 days, to provide liquidity at par. However, as a result of disruption in the global credit and capital markets, the auctions for all of our ARS failed beginning in February 2008 when sell orders exceeded buy orders. Accordingly, we were unable to sell any of our ARS. Of the $24.5 million of ARS as of December 31, 2008, approximately $20.9 million is held by UBS AG (UBS) and have been classified as trading securities because of the put option described below. Accordingly, the decline in fair value of these ARS during the year ended December 31, 2008 of approximately $7.1 million has been recorded as a charge to earnings and has been off-set by the value of the ARS Put Option as described below. In November 2008, we accepted an offer from UBS, entitling UBS, at any time during a two-year period from June 30, 2010 through July 2, 2012, to buy our auction-rate securities originally purchased from UBS at par value. In accepting the offer, we granted UBS the authority to sell or auction the ARS at par at any time up until 20 Table of Contents the expiration date of the offer and released UBS from any claims relating to the marketing and sale of ARS. Prior to any sale of our ARS, ARS will continue to accrue and pay interest as determined by the auction process or the terms specified in the prospectus of the ARS if the auction process fails. UBS’s obligations under the offer are not secured by its assets and do not require UBS to obtain any financing to support its performance obligations under the offer. UBS has disclaimed any assurance that it will have sufficient financial resources to satisfy its obligations under the offer. If UBS has insufficient funding to buy back the ARS and the auction process continues to fail, then we may incur further losses on the carrying value of the ARS. The remaining ARS was issued by another investment advisor who has not made an offer similar to UBS. Accordingly, we have continued to classify the ARS issued by this adviser as available-for-sale securities. Changes in their market value during the year ended December 31, 2008 have been recorded through other comprehensive income as a $1.6 million loss. If market conditions deteriorate further, we may be required to record additional unrealized losses in other comprehensive income or as impairment charges. We will not be able to liquidate these investments unless the issuer calls the security, a successful auction occurs, a buyer is found outside of the auction process, or the security matures. We have recorded long-lived assets, and our results of operations would be adversely affected if their value becomes impaired. Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets were recorded in part due to our acquisition of substantially all of the assets of Core Networks Incorporated in September 2004 and our acquisition of YourTechOnline.com in May 2008. We also have certain intangible assets with indefinite lives. We assess the impairment of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets annually or more often if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We assess the impairment of acquired product rights and other finite lived intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that its carrying amount may not be recoverable. As a result of our discontinuance of active marketing and selling of one of the products we acquired from Core Networks, and a reevaluation of the fair value of the Core Network’s technology intangible assets, we recognized a non-cash write-down of approximately $1.7 million during the fourth quarter of 2007. An impairment loss was recognized because the sum of the discounted future net cash flows expected to result from the use of the assets and their eventual disposition was less than the carrying amounts. Such impairment loss was measured as the difference between the carrying amounts of the assets and their fair value. Furthermore, we evaluate cash flows at the lowest operating level. If the number of reporting segments increases in the future, as it has in 2008, this may make impairment more probable than it would be with fewer reporting segments. As was the case in the fourth quarter of 2007, future write-downs of goodwill or net long-lived and intangible assets, would cause our operating results to suffer. Management changes and reorganization efforts may strain our administrative, technical, operational and financial infrastructure and disrupt our business. Our success depends on the skills, experience, performance, and focus of our senior management, engineering, sales, marketing and other key personnel. In January 2008, we reorganized the company and began operating our business in two segments, Consumer and Enterprise. We also appointed senior management personnel to lead each of the business segments. We made this change in an effort to ensure that each part of our business is focused, accountable and transparent at the segment level. In connection with this change we made several management and organizational changes. Our success will depend to a significant extent on the ability of our executives and key employees to function effectively in their new roles and to work together successfully. If these executives and key employees do not function and work together successfully, or if we lose the services of one or more of our executives or key employees, our business could be harmed. We are also focused on increasing our operating margins and improving our operating efficiencies. To this end, we reduced our workforce in the fourth quarter of 2008 and again in the first quarter of 2009. All of these changes place a strain on our management, and our administrative, technical, operational and financial 21 Table of Contents infrastructure. In addition, reductions in our workforce could make it difficult to motivate and retain remaining employees or attract needed new employees, and could also affect our ability to deliver products and services in a timely fashion. We must compete successfully in the markets in which we operate or our business will suffer. We compete in markets that are highly competitive, subject to rapid change and significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants. We compete with a number of companies in the market for support automation. In addition, our customers and potential customers have developed or may develop similar offerings internally. The markets for our products and services are still rapidly evolving, and we may not be able to compete successfully against current and potential competitors. Our ability to expand our business will depend on our ability to maintain our technological advantage, introduce timely enhanced products to meet growing support needs, deliver on-going value to our customers and scale our business. Our potential competitors may have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical and other resources, stronger strategic alliances or greater name recognition than we have. Competition in our markets could reduce our market share or require us to reduce the price of products and services, which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. In our Consumer business, we compete with electronics retailers that offer premium technology services, digital service provides, anti-virus providers, PC manufacturers, warranty providers, companies that offer online technology support and local computer repair shops. Certain of these competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical and other resources, greater access to large numbers of consumers, stronger strategic alliances or greater name recognition than we have. Our future product and service offerings may not achieve market acceptance. If we fail to develop enhanced versions of our software and services offerings in a timely manner or to provide products and services that achieve rapid and broad market acceptance, we may not maintain or expand our market share. We may fail to identify new product and service opportunities for our current market or new markets that we enter in the future. In addition, our existing products and services may become obsolete if we fail to introduce new products and services that meet new customer demands, support new standards or integrate with new or upgraded versions of packaged applications or operating systems. While we are developing new products and services, such as our new Dynamic Agent technology and RemoteTango product, there can be no assurance that these new products will gain market acceptance or generate material revenue for us. We have limited control over factors that affect market acceptance of our product and services, including the willingness of companies to transition to automated solutions and customer preferences for competitors’ products, services and delivery models. Our products depend on, and work with, products containing complex software; if our products fail to perform properly due to errors in the software, we may need to devote resources to correct the errors or compensate for losses from these errors and our reputation could be harmed. Our products depend on complex software, both internally developed and licensed from third parties. Also, our customers may use our products with other companies’ products, which may also contain complex software. Complex software often contains errors and may not perform properly. These errors could result in: • Delays in product shipments; • Unexpected expenses and diversion of resources to identify the source of errors or to correct errors, whether or not the error is later determined to be related to our software; • Damage to our reputation; 22 Table of Contents • Loss of or delay in revenue and loss of market share; • Loss of customers; • Failure to achieve market acceptance; • Contractual penalties, demands, claims and litigation and related defense costs; • Increased service and warranty costs; and • Increased insurance costs. In our Consumer offerings, we generally use our own products to diagnose and resolve consumer technology problems. If our products fail to perform well in this environment, our Consumer offerings would suffer and may not be successful. Our software may not operate with the hardware and software platforms that are used by our customers now or in the future, and, as a result, our business and operating results may suffer. We currently serve a customer base with a wide variety of constantly changing hardware, software and networking platforms. If we fail to release versions of our software that are compatible with operating systems, software applications or hardware devices used by our customers or their end-users, our business and operating results would suffer. Our future success also depends on the continuing ability of our products to inter-operate with multiple platforms and packaged applications used by our customer base and on our management of software being developed by third parties for our customers or for use with our products. We rely on third-party technologies and our inability to use or integrate third-party technologies could delay product or service development. We intend to continue to license technologies from third parties, including applications used in our research and development activities and technologies, which are integrated into our products and services. Our use of technologies licensed from third parties poses certain risks. Some of the third-party technologies we license may be provided under “open source” licenses, which may have terms that require us to make generally available our modifications or derivative works based on such open source code. Our inability to obtain or integrate third-party technologies with our own products could delay product and service development until equivalent compatible technology can be identified, licensed and integrated. These third-party technologies may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We may fail to successfully integrate any licensed technology into our products or services, which would harm our business and operating results. Third-party licenses also expose us to increased risks that include: • Risks of product malfunction after new technology is integrated; • Risks that we may be unable to obtain or continue to obtain support, maintenance and updates from the technology supplier; • The diversion of resources from the development of our own proprietary technology; and • Our inability to generate revenue from new technology sufficient to offset associated acquisition and maintenance costs. Our systems collect, access, use, and store personal customer information and enable customer transactions, which poses security risks, requires us to invest significant resources to prevent or correct problems caused by security breaches, and may harm our business. A fundamental requirement for online communications, transactions and support is the secure collection, storage and transmission of confidential information. Our systems collect and store confidential and/or personal 23 Table of Contents information of our customers and their end-users, including credit card information, and our employees and contractors may access and use that information in the course of providing services for our customers. In addition, we collect and retain personal information of our employees in the ordinary course of our business. We and our third-party contractors use commercially available technologies to secure this information. Despite these measures, third parties may attempt to breach the security of our data or that of our customers. In addition, errors in the storage or transmission of data could breach the security of that information. We may be liable to our customers for any breach in security and any breach could subject us to governmental or administrative proceedings or monetary penalties, and harm our business and reputation. Also, computers are vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, which could lead to interruptions, delays or loss of data. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to comply with mandatory privacy and security standards required by law, industry standard, or contract, and to further protect against security breaches or to correct problems caused by any breach. Privacy concerns and laws or other domestic or foreign regulations may require us to incur significant costs and may reduce the effectiveness of our solutions, and our failure to comply with those laws or regulations may harm our business and cause us to lose customers. Our software contains features that allow our customers and our technical support agents to access, control, monitor or collect information from computers running the software. Federal, state and foreign government bodies and agencies, however, have adopted or are considering adopting laws and regulations restricting or otherwise regulating the collection, use and disclosure of personal information obtained from consumers and individuals. Those regulations could require costly compliance measures, could reduce the efficiency of our operations, and could require us to modify our products, systems or services. Liability for violation of, costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by such laws and regulations may limit the use and adoption of our solutions and reduce overall demand for them. Even the perception of privacy concerns, whether or not valid, may harm our reputation and inhibit adoption of our solutions. In addition, we may face claims about invasion of privacy or inappropriate disclosure, use, storage, or loss of information obtained from our customers. Any imposition of liability could harm our reputation, cause us to lose customers and cause our operating results to suffer. We are exposed to risks associated with credit card and payment fraud and with credit card processing. Certain of our customers use credit cards to pay for our Consumer technology support offerings. We may suffer losses as a result of orders placed with fraudulent credit cards or other payment data. Our failure to detect or control payment fraud could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We are also subject to payment card association operating standards and requirements, as in effect from time to time. Compliance with those standards requires us to invest in network and systems infrastructure and processes. Failure to comply with these rules or requirements may subject us to fines, potential contractual liabilities, and other costs, resulting in harm to our business and results of operations. We may not obtain sufficient patent protection, which could harm our competitive position, increase our expenses and harm our business. Our success and ability to compete depend to a significant degree upon the protection of our software and other proprietary technology. It is possible that: • We may not be issued patents we may seek to protect our technology; • Competitors may independently develop similar technologies or design around any of our patents; • Patents issued to us may not be broad enough to protect our proprietary rights; and • Our issued patents could be successfully challenged. 24 Table of Contents We rely upon intellectual property laws to protect our proprietary rights, and if these rights are not sufficiently protected, it could harm our ability to compete and to generate revenue. We rely on a combination of laws, such as those applicable to patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, and contractual restrictions, such as confidentiality agreements and licenses, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. Our ability to compete and grow our business could suffer if these rights are not adequately protected. Our proprietary rights may not be adequately protected because: • Laws and contractual restrictions may not adequately prevent infringement of our proprietary rights and misappropriation of our technologies or deter others from developing similar technologies; and • Policing infringement of our patents, trademarks and copyrights, misappropriation of our trade secrets, and unauthorized use of our products is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and we may be unable to determine the existence or extent of this infringement or unauthorized use. Intellectual property litigation is expensive and time-consuming and could divert management’s attention from our business. The outcome of any litigation is uncertain and could significantly impact our financial results. Also, the laws of other countries in which we market our products may offer little or no protection of our proprietary technologies. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technologies could enable third parties to benefit from our technologies without paying us for them, which would harm our competitive position and market share. We may face intellectual property infringement claims that could be costly to defend and result in our loss of significant rights. Our business relies upon the use and licensing of technology and software. Other parties may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us or our customers, and our products may infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties. For example, our products may infringe patents issued to third parties. In addition, as is increasingly common in the software industry, we may be confronted with the aggressive enforcement of patents by companies whose primary business activity is to acquire patents for the purpose of offensively asserting them against other companies. From time to time, we have received allegations of intellectual property infringement, and we may receive more claims in the future. Intellectual property litigation is expensive and time-consuming and could divert management’s attention from our business. The outcome of any litigation is uncertain and could significantly impact our financial results. If there is a successful claim of infringement, we may be required to develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or license agreements, which may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Our failure to develop non-infringing technologies or license proprietary rights on a timely basis would harm our business. Compliance with public company rules and regulations is costly and requires significant resources in proportion to our revenue. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Nasdaq Global Select Market, has required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. These rules and regulations require significant internal and external compliance resources that are disproportionately costly for publicly traded companies of our size. Additionally, such compliance has made some activities more time-consuming. These rules and regulations make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. Also, these rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and qualified executive officers. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 25 Table of Contents 