Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to substantial risks, including the risks described below. We have a history of significant losses, expect future losses and may never achieve or sustain profitability. We have incurred significant losses since our inception, and we expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. We incurred losses of $38,692,000 in the year ended December 31, 2005 and $21,093,000 in the year ended December 31, 2004. As of December 31, 2005, our accumulated deficit was $235,150,000. In addition, we have increased our sales and marketing expenditures and research 15 and development expenditures in connection with our efforts to develop new sources of revenue. Our revenues and gross margins may not grow or even continue at their current level and may decline even further. If our revenues do not rapidly increase, or if our expenses increase at a greater pace than our revenues, we will never become profitable. We have written down and may need to further write-down our inventory in the future if our sales levels do not match our expectations, or if selling prices decline more than we anticipate, which could adversely impact our operating results. We operate in an industry that is characterized by intense competition, supply shortages or oversupply, rapid technological change, declining average selling prices and rapid product obsolescence, all of which make it more challenging to effectively manage our inventory. In addition, we are required to order or build inventory well in advance of the time of our anticipated sales. Our inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market value. Determining market value of inventories involves numerous judgments, including, but not limited to, judgments regarding average selling prices and sales volumes for future periods. We primarily utilize estimated selling prices for measuring any potential declines in market value below cost. When market value is determined to be below cost, we make appropriate allowances to reduce the value of inventories to net realized value. We may reduce the value of our inventories when we determine that inventories are slow moving, obsolete or excess or where the selling price of the product is insufficient to cover product costs and selling expenses. In this regard, our inventory increased substantially in 2004 and 2005 because sales were substantially less than our anticipated demand and we were required to make advance inventory purchase commitments for anticipated sales. Accordingly, we recorded a write down of inventory and purchase commitments of approximately $2,050,000 for the year ended December 31, 2005. In the event that our sales do not increase, the sales price of our products decrease or we are otherwise unable to control inventory levels consistent with actual demand, we may be required to write-down additional inventory. Any such write-down would adversely affect our operating results in future periods. We may have insufficient capital to execute our business plan. On March 23, 2006, we closed a financing of $25,000,000 from Goldman, Sachs & Co., resulting in net proceeds to us of approximately $23,500,000. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Subsequent Events—Financing" below. Notwithstanding this financing, we may need additional capital to execute our business plan. If we are unsuccessful in securing additional cash, either through additional equity and/or debt financings or increased revenues, we may not be able to successfully execute our business plan. If an event of default occurs under either the Convertible Note or the Senior Secured Note delivered to Goldman, Sachs & Co. in the financing, the principal and accrued interest under each note would become due and payable which would substantially harm our cash position and business prospects. On March 23, 2006, we closed a financing for $25,000,000 which included delivery of a Convertible Note in the principal amount of $10,000,000 and a Senior Secured Note in the principal amount of $7,500,000. Each of these notes contains events of default that, if triggered, would require us to pay the principal and accrued interest under both notes immediately (after the expiration of applicable cure periods). If an event of default occurs under the notes and the holder declares all outstanding principal and interest immediately due and payable, our cash position and business prospects would be substantially harmed. 16 If we fail to achieve significant market penetration and customer acceptance of our cable products, our prospects would be substantially harmed. The market for broadband products in the cable television industry is extremely competitive, subject to drastic technological changes and highly fragmented. Our products in the Cable Solutions segment are new and relatively unknown; accordingly, we have not generated significant revenue in this segment. To date, we have only begun to install our cable products with customers in field trials. There can be no assurance that our initial installations of our cable products will be successful. As our cable products are in a development stage, we may face challenges such as market resistance to a new product, perceptions regarding customer support and quality control. We will generate significant sales only if we are able to penetrate the market and create market share in this industry. If we are unable to do so, our business would be harmed and our prospects significantly diminished. Our success will depend on MSOs willingness and ability to substantially increase the available bandwidth on their networks using our alternative technology solution. For our cable products to be sold in significant quantities, MSOs must be willing and able to substantially increase the available bandwidth on their networks. MSOs may not be willing or able to develop additional services and revenue streams to justify the deployment of our technology. Meanwhile, major MSOs have indicated that the imminent completion of significant network upgrades, which involve significant labor and construction costs, will lead to lower capital expenditures in the future. If our product portfolio and product development plans do not position us well to capture an increased portion of the expected reduced capital spending of these cable operators, our operating results would be adversely affected. If the adoption of broadband wireless technology continues to be limited, we will not be able to sustain or expand our business. Our future success in the telecommunications market depends on high-speed wireless communications products gaining market acceptance as a means to provide voice and data communications services. Because these markets are relatively new and unproven, it is difficult to predict if these markets will ever develop, expand or be sufficiently large to sustain our business. Major service providers in the United States have ceased, delayed or reduced their rollouts and may further delay or reduce rollouts in the future. Our expectations with respect to a recovery, if any, in the telecommunications market, may not prove accurate. In the event that service providers adopt technologies other than the wireless technologies that we offer or if they delay further their deployment of high-speed wireless communication products, we will not be able to sustain or expand our business. While we are continuing to operate our traditional Wireless Solutions segment and have increased our sales and marketing efforts to address the utilities and oil and gas market and other new markets, we may also consider a variety of alternatives to this business, including the sale, divestiture, license or restructuring of a substantial portion or all of our current wireless network technology or assets. In the event of any such transaction, the value we may realize in the current market could be minimal. If telecommunications service providers and systems integrators do not promote and purchase our products, or if the telecommunications equipment market does not improve and grow, our business will seriously be harmed. Telecommunications service providers continually evaluate alternative technologies, including digital subscriber line, fiber and cable. Should service providers or systems integrators, to which we may sell products in the future, cease to emphasize systems that include our products, choose to emphasize 17 alternative technologies or promote systems of our competitors, our business would be seriously harmed. Market conditions remain difficult and capital spending plans are often constrained. It is likely that further industry restructuring and consolidation will take place. Companies that have historically not had a large presence in the broadband access equipment market have begun recently to expand their market share through mergers and acquisitions. The continued consolidation of our competitors could have a significant negative impact on us. Further, our competitors may bundle their products or incorporate functionality into existing products in a manner that discourages users from purchasing our products or which may require us to lower our selling prices resulting in lower gross margins. If the telecommunications market, and in particular the market for broadband access equipment, does not improve and grow, our business would be substantially harmed. If the communications, Internet and cable television industries do not grow and evolve in a manner favorable to our business strategy or us, our business may be seriously harmed. Our future success is dependent upon the growth of the communications industry, the cable television industry and, in particular, the Internet. These markets continue to evolve rapidly because of advances in technology and changes in customer demand. We cannot predict growth rates or future trends in technology development. It is possible that cable television operators, telecommunications companies or other suppliers of broadband services will decide to adopt alternative architectures or technologies that are incompatible with our current or future products. If we are unable to design, develop, manufacture and sell products that incorporate or are compatible with these new architectures or technologies, our business will suffer. Also, decisions by customers to adopt new technologies or products are often delayed by extensive evaluation and qualifications processes and can result in delays of current products. In addition, the deregulation, privatization and economic globalization of the worldwide communications market, which resulted in increased competition and escalating demand for new technologies and services, may not continue in a manner favorable to us or our business strategies. In addition, the growth in demand for Internet services and the resulting need for high-speed or enhanced communications products may not continue at its current rate or at all. Our success depends significantly on Davidi Gilo, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, the loss of whom could seriously harm our business. Our future success depends in large part on the continued services of our senior management and key personnel. In particular, we are significantly dependent on the services of Davidi Gilo, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. We do not carry key person life insurance on our senior management or key personnel. Any loss of the services of Mr. Gilo or other members of senior management or other key personnel could seriously harm our business. We may not be able to successfully operate Xtend or integrate Xtend or other businesses that we may choose to acquire, in a cost-effective and non-disruptive manner and realize anticipated benefits. We acquired Xtend, a provider of infrastructure solutions that expand the bandwidth of cable operators, on June 30, 2004. We also may continue to explore investments in or acquisitions of other companies, products or technologies, including companies or technologies that are not complementary or related to our current wireless broadband access business. We ultimately may be unsuccessful in operating Xtend as a profitable business as we were unable to operate Shira as a profitable business. In addition, we may have difficulty integrating Xtend's or other companies' personnel, operations, products and technologies into our current business. These difficulties may disrupt our ongoing business, divert the time and attention of our management and employees and increase our expenses. 18 Moreover, the anticipated benefits of our acquisition of Xtend or any other acquisition may not be realized. Future acquisitions could result in dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses related to goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets and the incurrence of large and immediate write-offs, any of which could seriously harm our business. In addition, we expect that we will expend significant resources in searching for and investigating new business opportunities, and may be unsuccessful in acquiring new businesses. We will need to develop distribution channels and management resources to market and sell our cable products. Our Spectrum Overlay solutions are at a development stage in the commercialization of our cable products. We currently have limited relationships with potential customers and distributors as well as limited professional sales staff. We will be successful only if we are able to develop distribution channels to market and sell our cable products. In order to develop such channels and market and sell our cable products, we will need to continue to build a well-connected team of executives and marketing professionals. Many of these executive and professionals will need to be based in the United States. It may be difficult for us to hire and retain qualified personnel. Integrating new personnel, particularly U.S.-based personnel, may be challenging from a culture and logistics perspective because most of our employees in our Cable solutions segment are currently based in Israel. Meanwhile, our management has limited experience in the cable industry. We currently have limited exposure to global business opportunities. We will not be able to take advantage of any meaningful potential global demand for our products unless and until we are able to develop global distribution channels and strategies. We have not yet produced or deployed our cable products in high volumes. We have not yet produced our Spectrum Overlay solutions products in high volumes and there may be challenges and unexpected delays, such as quality control issues, in our attempts to increase volume and lower production costs. Our long-term success depends on our ability to produce high quality products at a low cost and, in particular, to reduce the production cost of our cable products designed for residential use. Because we have not yet deployed our Spectrum Overlay solutions products in high volume, there is significant technology risk associated with any such future deployment. We cannot be sure that any such high volume deployment would be successful. We will depend on cable and telecommunications industry capital spending for much of our revenue and any decrease or delay in such spending would adversely affect our prospects. Demand for our products will depend on the size and timing of capital expenditures by telecommunications service providers and MSOs. These capital spending patterns are dependent upon factors including: •the availability of cash or financing; •budgetary issues; •regulation and/or deregulation of the telecommunications industry; •competitive pressures; •alternative technologies; •overall demand for broadband services, particularly relatively new services such as VoIP; 19 •industry standards; •the pattern of increasing consolidation in the industry; and •general consumer spending and overall economic conditions. If MSOs and telecommunications service providers do not make significant capital expenditures, our prospects would be adversely affected. We will depend on future demand for additional bandwidth by the cable industry and its end customers. Because our cable products expand available bandwidth over existing infrastructure, demand for these products depends on demand for additional bandwidth by the cable industry and its end customers. The scope and timing of end customer demand for such additional bandwidth is uncertain and hard to predict. The factors influencing this demand include competitive offerings, applications availability, pricing models, costs, regulatory requirements and the success of initial roll-outs. If the future demand for bandwidth is insubstantial, is addressed by alternative technologies or does not develop in the near future, our prospects would be adversely affected. Our participation or lack of participation in industry standards groups may adversely affect our business. We are not active in the standards process of the Cable Television Laboratories, Inc., a cable industry consortium that establishes cable technology standards and administers compliance testing. In the future, we may determine to join or not join other standards or similar organizations. Our membership in these organizations could dilute our proprietary intellectual property rights in our products while our failure to participate in others could jeopardize acceptance of any of our products that do not meet industry standards. Product standardization, as may result from wireless industry initiatives or from initiatives of the major cable operators, may adversely affect our prospects. Product standardization initiatives encouraged by telecommunications companies and cable operators may adversely affect revenues, gross margins and profits. In the past, standardization efforts by major cable operators have negatively impacted equipment vendors by leading to equipment obsolescence, commoditization and reduced margins. If our products are not compliant with future standards, our prospects could be adversely affected. Since we reduced our workforce in August 2005, our research and development efforts could be harmed. We implemented a cost reduction program in August 2005 by reducing our workforce. The full implementation of this program resulted in a reduction of our workforce of approximately 16%. This reduction has had the largest effect on our research and development activities. Our ability to further develop and market our products may be limited if we have not accurately predicted the appropriate workforce requirements for our research and development efforts. Competition may result in lower average selling prices, and we may be unable to reduce our costs at offsetting rates, which may impair our ability to achieve profitability. There has been significant price erosion in the broadband equipment field. We expect that continued price competition among broadband access equipment and systems suppliers will reduce our gross margins in the future. We anticipate that the average selling prices of broadband access systems will continue to decline as product technologies mature. We may be unable to reduce our 20 manufacturing costs in response to declining average per unit selling prices. Our competitors may be able to achieve greater economies of scale and may be less vulnerable to the effects of price competition than we are. These declines in average selling prices will generally lead to declines in gross margins and total profitability for these systems. If we are unable to reduce our costs to offset declines in average selling prices, we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability. Our future growth depends on market acceptance of several emerging broadband services, on the adoption of new broadband technologies and on several other broadband industry trends. Future demand for our broadband wireless and cable products will depend significantly on the growing market acceptance of several emerging broadband services, including digital video, video-on-demand (VOD), high definition television, very high-speed data services and VoIP telephony. The effective delivery of these services will depend in part on a variety of new network architectures, such as fiber-to-the premises networks, new video compression standards such as MPEG-4 and Microsoft's Windows Media 9, the greater use of protocols such as IP and the introduction of new consumer devices, such as advanced set-top boxes and digital video recorders. If adoption of these emerging services and/or technologies is not as widespread or as rapid as we expect, our net sales growth would be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, other technological, industry and regulatory trends will affect the growth of our business. These trends include the following: •convergence, or the desire of certain operators to provide a combination of video, voice and data services to consumers, also known as the "triple play;" •the use of digital video by businesses and governments; •the privatization of state-owned telecommunication companies in other countries; •efforts by regulators and governments in the United States and abroad to encourage the adoption of broadband and digital technologies; and •the extent and nature of regulatory attitudes toward such issues as competition between operators, access by third parties to networks of other operators and new services such as VoIP. If, for instance, operators do not pursue the triple play as aggressively as we expect, our net sales growth would be materially and adversely affected. Similarly, if our expectations regarding these and other trends are not met, our net sales could be materially and adversely affected. Our quarterly operating results fluctuate, which may cause our share price to decline. Our quarterly operating results have varied significantly in the past and are likely to vary significantly in the future. These variations result from a number of factors, including: •the uncertain timing and level of market acceptance for our systems and the uncertain timing and extent of rollouts of broadband access equipment and systems by the major service providers; •the fact that we often recognize a substantial proportion of our revenues in the last few weeks of each quarter; •the ability of our existing and potential direct customers to obtain financing for the deployment of broadband access equipment and systems; •the mix of products sold by us and the mix of sales channels through which they are sold; •reductions in pricing by us or our competitors; 21 •global economic conditions; •the effectiveness of our system integrator customers in marketing and selling their network systems equipment; •changes in the prices or delays in deliveries of the components we purchase or license; and •any acquisitions or dispositions we may effect. A delay in the recognition of revenue, even from one customer, could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations for a given period. Also, because only a small portion of our expenses vary with our revenues, if revenue levels for a quarter fall below our expectations, we would not be able to timely adjust expenses accordingly, which would harm our operating results in that period. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. If our operating results fall below the expectations of investors in future periods, our share price would likely decline. The loss of one or more of our key customers would result in a loss of a significant amount of our revenues and adversely affect our business. A relatively small number of customers account for a large percentage of our revenues, as set forth in the table below: Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Customer A 45 % 19 % 14 % Customer B 8 % 19 % 4 % Customer C 7 % 7 % 11 % Customer D 2 % 13 % 47 % Customer E — 21 % — Customer F — 2 % 14 % We expect that we will continue to depend on a limited number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenues in future periods. The loss of a major customer could seriously harm our ability to sustain revenue levels, which would seriously harm our operating results. Because we operate in international markets, we are exposed to additional risks which could cause our international sales to decline and our foreign operations to suffer. Sales outside of North America accounted for approximately 32.0% of our revenues in the year ended December 31, 2005. In addition, we maintain research and development facilities in Israel. Our reliance on international sales, operations and suppliers exposes us to foreign political and economic risks, which may impair our ability to generate revenues. These risks include: •economic, inflation and political instability; •terrorist acts, international conflicts and acts of war; •our international customers' ability to obtain financing to fund their deployments; •changes in regulatory requirements and licensing frequencies to service providers; •import or export licensing requirements and tariffs; •labor shortages or stoppages; •trade restrictions and tax policies; and 22 •limited protection of intellectual property rights. Any of the foregoing difficulties of conducting business internationally could seriously harm our business. Conditions in Israel affect our operations and could limit our ability to produce and sell our systems. Our research and development and final testing and assembly facilities, a majority of our employees and some of our contract manufacturers are located in Israel. Political, economic and military conditions in Israel directly affect our operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors and a state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Hostilities within Israel have dramatically escalated in recent years, which could disrupt our operations. In addition, the recent wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and the current military and political presence of the United States or its allies in Iraq and Afghanistan could cause increasing instability in the Middle East and further disrupt relations between Israel and its Arab neighbors. We could be adversely affected by any major hostilities involving Israel, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners, a significant increase in inflation or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel. As a result of the hostilities and unrest presently occurring within Israel and the Middle East, the future of the peace efforts between Israel and its Arab neighbors is uncertain. Moreover, several countries still restrict business with Israel and with Israeli companies. We could be adversely affected by restrictive laws or policies directed towards Israel or Israeli businesses. Our Chief Financial Officer, one of our directors and a majority of our employees are based in Israel, and many of them are currently obligated to perform annual reserve duty and are subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. We cannot assess the full impact of these requirements on our workforce or business if conditions should change, and we cannot predict the effect on us of any expansion or reduction of these obligations. Because substantially all of our revenues are generated in U.S. dollars while a portion of our expenses are incurred in New Israeli Shekels, our results of operations could be seriously harmed if the rate of inflation in Israel exceeds the rate of devaluation of the New Israeli Shekel against the U.S. dollar. Our functional currency is the U.S. dollar. We generate substantially all of our revenues in U.S. dollars, but we incur a substantial portion of our expenses, principally salaries and related personnel expenses related to research and development, in New Israeli Shekels, or NIS. As a result, we are exposed to the risk that the rate of inflation in Israel will exceed the rate of devaluation of the NIS in relation to the dollar or that the timing of this devaluation lags behind inflation in Israel. Because we do not have long-term contracts with our customers, our customers can discontinue purchases of our systems at any time, which could adversely affect future revenues and operating results. We sell our broadband access equipment and systems based on individual purchase orders. Our customers generally are not obligated by long-term agreements to purchase our systems, and the agreements we have entered into do not obligate our customers to purchase a minimum number of systems. Our customers can generally cancel or reschedule orders on short notice and discontinue using our systems at any time. Further, having a successful field system trial does not necessarily mean that the customer will order large volumes of our systems. The reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from one or more of our customers could seriously harm our operating results. 23 The potential effects of regulatory actions could impact spectrum allocation and frequencies worldwide and cause delays or otherwise negatively impact the growth and development of the broadband market, which would adversely affect our business. Countries worldwide are considering or are in the process of allocating frequencies for wireless applications, but not all markets have done so. If the United States and/or other countries do not provide sufficient spectrum for wireless applications or reallocate spectrum in the wireless frequency bands for other purposes, our customers may delay or cancel deployments in broadband wireless, which could seriously harm our business. Further, if our customers are unable to obtain licenses or sufficient spectrum in the wireless frequency bands our business could be seriously harmed. The cable industry is also heavily regulated and changes in the regulatory landscape may adversely affect our business. For example, cable operators are currently required to carry a significant number of analog channels. A reduction or elimination of this requirement may free bandwidth for these operators and reduce the potential market for our products. Competition may decrease our market share, net revenues and gross margins, which could cause our stock price to decline. The market for broadband access equipment and systems is intensely competitive, rapidly evolving and subject to rapid technological change. The main competitive factors in our markets include: •product performance, features and reliability; •price; •stability; •scope of product line; •sales and distribution capabilities; •technical service and support; •relationships, particularly those with system integrators and operators; and •industry standards. Certain of our competitors and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, distribution, marketing and other resources than we have and, therefore, may be able to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities, technologies and other developments. In addition, many of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, broader product lines and established relationships with system integrators and service providers. Our primary competitors are Alvarion Inc.; Aperto Networks, Inc.; NextNet Wireless, Inc.; IP Wireless, Inc.; Navini Networks, Inc.; Wi-LAN Inc.; SR Telecom Inc.; Harris Corporation; Cambridge Wireless Limited; Flarion Technologies Inc. (acquired by Qualcomm Incorporated in January 2006); VCom Inc.; Airspan Networks, Inc.; ZTE Corporation; Scientific-Atlanta (purchased by Cisco Systems, Inc. in 2006); Motorola, Inc.; C-Cor Incorporated and Narad Networks, Inc. Most of these competitors have existing relationships with one or more of our prospective customers. For our broadband wireless offerings, we face competition from technologies such as digital subscriber line, fiber and cable. In the cable industry, our cable offerings face competition from technologies such as digital set-top boxes, high-end compression technologies and DVRs. Furthermore, the move toward open standards may increase the number of operators who will offer new services, which in turn may increase the number of competitors and drive down the capital expenditures per subscriber deployed. We may not be able to compete successfully against our current and future competitors, and competitive pressures could seriously harm our business. 24 Hardware defects or firmware errors could increase our costs and impair the market acceptance of our systems, which would adversely affect our future operating results. Our systems will occasionally contain certain defects or errors. This may result either from defects in components supplied by third parties or from errors or defects in our firmware or hardware that we have failed to detect. We have in the past experienced, and may experience from time to time in the future, defects in new or enhanced products and systems after commencement of commercial shipments, or defects in deployed systems. This may be observed in connection with stability or other performance problems. Our customers integrate our systems into their networks with components from other vendors. Accordingly, when problems occur in a network system, it may be difficult to identify the component that caused the problem. Regardless of the source of these defects or errors, we will need to divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts to address the defect or error. We have incurred in the past and may again incur significant warranty and repair costs related to defects or errors, and we also may be subject to liability claims for damages related to these defects or errors. The occurrence of defects or errors, whether caused by our systems or the components of another vendor, may result in significant customer relationship problems and injury to our reputation and may impair the market acceptance of our systems. We depend on contract manufacturers and third party equipment and technology suppliers, and these manufacturers and suppliers may be unable to fill our orders or develop compatible, required technology on a timely basis, which would result in delays that could seriously harm our results of operations. We currently have relationships with a limited number of contract manufacturers for the manufacturing of our broadband wireless systems, substantially all of whom are located in Israel, Taiwan and China. Our cable products are manufactured in Israel by contract manufacturers. These relationships may be terminated by either party with little or no notice. If our manufacturers are unable or unwilling to continue manufacturing our systems in required volumes, we would have to identify qualified alternative manufacturers, which would result in delays that could cause our results of operations to suffer. Our limited experience with these manufacturers does not provide us with a reliable basis on which to project their ability to meet delivery schedules, yield targets or costs. If we are required to find alternative manufacturing sources, we may not be able to satisfy our production requirements at acceptable prices and on a timely basis, if at all. Any significant interruption in supply would affect the allocation of systems to customers, which in turn could seriously harm our business. In addition, we currently have no formal written agreement with a manufacturer for our modem products. Our current inventory of modems will likely be insufficient to fulfill anticipated demand, and we will therefore be required to find a manufacturer in the near future. Our inability to enter into a written agreement with a manufacturer for our modems would harm our business. In addition to sales to system integrators, we also sell in some instances directly to service providers. Such direct sales require us to resell equipment to service providers manufactured by third party suppliers and to integrate this equipment with the equipment we manufacture. We are particularly dependent on third party radio suppliers in selling our 3.5 Ghz and other products. We currently have no formal relationship with any third party supplier. If we are unable to establish relationships with suppliers, or if these suppliers are unable to provide equipment that meets the specifications of our customers on the delivery schedules required by our customers, and at acceptable prices, our business would be substantially harmed. Our Spectrum Overlay solutions products are implemented over the hybrid fiber coaxial plant and, as such, they interface and integrate with existing products from multiple other vendors. Future offerings by these vendors may not be sufficiently compatible with our Spectrum Overlay solutions products. In addition, we depend on the continuous delivery of components by various manufacturers of electronic connectors, filters, boards and transistors. 25 We obtain some of the components included in our systems from a single source or a limited group of suppliers, and the loss of any of these suppliers could cause production delays and a substantial loss of revenue. We currently obtain key components from a limited number of suppliers. Some of these components, such as semiconductor components for our wireless hubs, are obtained from a single source supplier. We generally do not have long-term supply contracts with our suppliers. These factors present us with the following risks: •delays in delivery or shortages in components could interrupt and delay manufacturing and result in cancellation of orders for our systems; •suppliers could increase component prices significantly and with immediate effect; •we may not be able to develop alternative sources for system components, if or as required in the future; •suppliers could discontinue the manufacture or supply of components used in our systems. In such event, we might need to modify our systems, which may cause delays in shipments, increased manufacturing costs and increased systems prices; and •we may hold more inventory than is immediately required to compensate for potential component shortages or discontinuation. The occurrence of any of these or similar events would harm our business. If we do not effectively manage our costs, our business could be substantially harmed. Although we reduced the costs of our wireless network operations in response to the decline in the telecommunications industry that began around 2001, we have increased certain expenses to address new business opportunities in both the Wireless Solutions and Cable Solutions segments and we will need to continue to monitor closely our costs and expenses. If the market and our business do not expand, we may need to further reduce our operations. In addition, our acquisition of Xtend has caused our costs to increase as we seek to develop business. Delays and shortages in the supply of components from our suppliers and third party vendors could reduce our revenues or increase our cost of revenue. Delays and shortages in the supply of components are typical in our industry. We have experienced minor delays and shortages on more than one occasion in the past. In addition, any failure of necessary worldwide manufacturing capacity to rise along with a rise in demand could result in our subcontract manufacturers allocating available capacity to larger customers or to customers that have long-term supply contracts in place. Our inability to obtain adequate manufacturing capacity at acceptable prices, or any delay or interruption in supply, could reduce our revenues or increase our cost of revenue and could seriously harm our business. Third parties may bring infringement claims against us that could harm our ability to sell our products and result in substantial liabilities. Third parties could assert, and it could be found, that our technologies infringe their proprietary rights. We could incur substantial costs to defend any litigation, and intellectual property litigation could force us to do one or more of the following: •obtain licenses to the infringing technology; •pay substantial damages under applicable law; •cease the manufacture, use and sale of infringing products; or 26 •expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology. Any infringement claim or litigation against us could significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property, we may not be able to compete and our ability to provide unique products may be compromised. Our success depends in part on our ability to protect our proprietary technologies. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets and confidentiality and other contractual provisions to establish and protect our proprietary rights. Our pending or future patent applications may not be approved and the claims covered by such applications may be reduced. If allowed, our patents may not be of sufficient scope or strength, and others may independently develop similar technologies or products. Litigation, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our efforts, may also be necessary to enforce any patents issued or licensed to us or to determine the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights. Any such litigation, regardless of the outcome, could be expensive and time consuming, and adverse determinations in any such litigation could seriously harm our business. Similarly, our pending or future trademark applications may not be approved and may not be sufficient to protect our trademarks in the markets where we either do business or hope to conduct business. The inability to secure any necessary trademark rights could be costly and could seriously harm our business. We regularly evaluate and seek to explore and develop derivative products relating to our Wireless Solutions and Cable Solutions segments systems. We may not be able to secure all desired intellectual property protection relating to such derivative products. Furthermore, because of the rapid pace of change in the broadband industry, much of our business and many of our products rely on technologies that evolve constantly and this continuing uncertainty makes it difficult to forecast future demand for our products. Because of our long product development process and sales cycle, we may incur substantial expenses without anticipated revenues that could cause our operating results to fluctuate. A customer's decision to purchase our products typically involves a significant technical evaluation, formal internal procedures associated with capital expenditure approvals and testing and acceptance of new systems that affect key operations. For these and other reasons, the sales cycle associated with our systems can be lengthy and subject to a number of significant risks, over which we have little or no control. Because of the growing sales cycle and the likelihood that we may rely on a small number of customers for our revenues, our operating results could be seriously harmed if such revenues do not materialize when anticipated, or at all. Government regulation and industry standards may increase our costs of doing business, limit our potential markets or require changes to our business model and adversely affect our business. The emergence or evolution of regulations and industry standards for broadband products, through official standards committees or widespread use by operators, could require us to modify our systems, which may be expensive and time-consuming, and to incur substantial compliance costs. Radio frequencies are subject to extensive regulation under the laws of the United States, foreign laws and international treaties. Each country has different regulations and regulatory processes for wireless communications equipment and uses of radio frequencies. Failure by the regulatory authorities to allocate suitable, sufficient radio frequencies to potential customers in a timely manner could result in the delay or loss of potential orders for our systems and seriously harm our business. 27 We are subject to export control laws and regulations with respect to certain of our products and technology. We are subject to the risk that more stringent export control requirements could be imposed in the future on product classes that include products exported by us, which would result in additional compliance burdens and could impair the enforceability of our contract rights. We may not be able to renew our export licenses as necessary from time to time. In addition, we may be required to apply for additional licenses to cover modifications and enhancements to our products. Any revocation or expiration of any requisite license, the failure to obtain a license for product modifications and enhancements, or more stringent export control requirements could seriously harm our business. We are incurring additional costs and devoting more management resources to comply with increasing regulation of corporate governance and disclosure. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 that became law in July 2002 and the resulting rules of the Nasdaq National Market have required and will continue to require changes in our corporate governance, public disclosure and compliance practices. The number of rules and regulations applicable to us has increased and will continue to increase our legal and financial compliance costs. In addition, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant costs as we prepare to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 regarding internal control over financial reporting. These laws and regulations and perceived increased risk of liability could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our Board of Directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and qualified executive officers. We cannot estimate the timing or magnitude of additional costs we may incur as a result. In addition to the increased costs discussed above, we are spending an increased amount of management time and internal resources to understand and comply with these changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure. Allocating the necessary resources to comply with evolving corporate governance and public disclosure standards has increased general and administrative expenses and caused a diversion of management time and attention to compliance activities. Recent regulations related to equity compensation could adversely affect earnings, affect our ability to raise capital and affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Since our inception, we have used stock options as a fundamental component of our employee compensation packages. We believe that our stock option plans are an important tool to link the long-term interests of stockholders and employees, especially executive management, and serve to motivate management to make decisions that will, in the long run, give the best returns to stockholders. FASB has adopted changes to the U.S. GAAP that will require us to record a charge to earnings for employee stock option grants, as well as other equity-based awards. The change will negatively impact our earnings and could affect our ability to raise capital on acceptable terms. In addition, regulations implemented by the Nasdaq National Market requiring stockholder approval for all stock option plans could make it more difficult for us to grant stock options to employees in the future. To the extent that new regulations make it more difficult or expensive to grant stock options to employees, we may incur increased compensation costs, change our equity compensation strategy or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business. The government programs and benefits we receive require us to satisfy prescribed conditions. These programs and benefits may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase our costs and taxes and could seriously harm our business. Certain of our capital investments have been granted "approved enterprise" status under Israeli law providing us with certain Israeli tax benefits. The benefits available to an approved enterprise are 28 conditioned upon the fulfillment of conditions stipulated in applicable law and in the specific certificate of approval. If we fail to comply with these conditions, in whole or in part, we may be required to pay additional taxes for the period in which we enjoyed the tax benefits and would likely be denied these benefits in the future. From time to time, the government of Israel has considered reducing or eliminating the benefits available under the approved enterprise program. These tax benefits may not be continued in the future at their current levels or at all. The termination or reduction of these benefits would increase our taxes and could seriously harm our business. As of the date hereof, our Israeli subsidiaries, Vyyo Ltd. and Xtend, have accumulated loss carry-forwards for Israeli tax purposes and therefore have not enjoyed any tax benefits under current approved enterprise programs. In the past, we have received grants from the government of Israel for the financing of a portion of our research and development expenditures for previous products in Israel. The regulations under which we received these grants restrict our ability to manufacture products or transfer technology outside of Israel for products developed with this technology. Furthermore, these grants may not be available to us in the future. As of April 1, 2005, the government of Israel eliminated the ability of companies to submit new applications for approved enterprise status. This change in the government policy may hinder us in the future with respect to any benefits we may have received for new undertakings which would have been entitled to "approved enterprise" status. Several of our directors and officers have relationships with Davidi Gilo and his affiliated companies that could be deemed to limit their independence. Several members of our Board of Directors, Lewis Broad, Neill Brownstein, Avraham Fischer, Samuel Kaplan and Alan Zimmerman, have had professional relationships with our Chairman of the Board, Davidi Gilo, and his affiliated companies for several years. These members of our Board of Directors previously served on the boards of directors of DSP Communications, Inc. and/or DSP Group, Inc., of which Mr. Gilo was formerly the controlling stockholder and the Chairman of the Board. In addition, Avraham Fischer is a senior partner of the law firm of Fischer, Behar, Chen & Co., which represents us on matters relating to Israeli law, and is an investor and co-Chief Executive Officer of an Israeli investor group in which Mr. Gilo was an investor until October 2005. There are no family relationships between these directors and officers, and no member of our compensation committee serves as a member of the Board of Directors or compensation committee of any entity that has one or more executive officers serving as a member of our Board of Directors or compensation committee. However, the long-term relationships between these directors and officers and Mr. Gilo and his affiliated companies could be considered to limit their independence. Because our management has the ability to control stockholder votes, the premium over market price that an acquirer might otherwise pay could be reduced and any merger or takeover could be delayed. As of December 31, 2005, our management collectively owned approximately 32.8% of our outstanding common stock (based on the number of shares owned by these individuals and the number of shares issuable upon exercise of options within 60 days of March 31, 2006). As a result, these stockholders, acting together, will be able to control the outcome of all matters submitted for stockholder action, including: •electing members to our Board of Directors; •approving significant change-in-control transactions; •determining the amount and timing of dividends paid to themselves and to our public stockholders; and •controlling our management and operations. 29 This concentration of ownership may have the effect of impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business consolidation involving us, or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our shares. This concentration of ownership could also negatively affect our stock's market price or decrease any premium over market price that an acquirer might otherwise pay. We rely on a continuous power supply to conduct our operations, and any electrical or natural resource crisis could disrupt our operations and increase our expenses. We rely on a continuous power supply for manufacturing and to conduct our business operations. Interruptions in electrical power supplies occur around the world from time to time. Meanwhile, prices of the resources, such as electrical power and crude oil, upon which we ultimately rely, directly or indirectly, in running our business have been volatile. Power shortages, as have occurred in California and China, could disrupt our manufacturing and business operations and those of many of our suppliers, and could cause us to fail to meet production schedules and commitments to customers and other third parties. Any disruption to our operations or those of our suppliers could result in damage to our current and prospective business relationships and could result in lost revenue and additional expenses, thereby harming our business and operating results. Because the Nasdaq National Market is likely to continue to experience extreme price and volume fluctuations, the price of our stock may decline. The market price of our shares has been and likely will continue to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors, including the following: •actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results or those of our competitors; •announcements by us or our competitors of new products or technological innovations; •introduction and adoption of new industry standards; •changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; •changes in the market valuations of our competitors; •announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or partnerships; and •sales of our common stock. Many of these factors are beyond our control and may negatively impact the market price of our common stock, regardless of our performance. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for technology and telecommunications-related companies in particular, have been highly volatile. Our common stock may not trade at the same levels compared to shares of other technology companies and shares of technology companies, in general, may not sustain their current market prices. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We could become the target of similar litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources, which could seriously harm our business and operating results. 30 Provisions of our governing documents and Delaware law could discourage acquisition proposals or delay a change in control. Our Fourth Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws contain anti-takeover provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if that change in control would be beneficial to stockholders. Specifically: •our Board of Directors has the authority to issue common stock and preferred stock and to determine the price, rights and preferences of any new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval; •our Board of Directors is divided into three classes, each serving three-year terms; •super-majority voting is required to amend key provisions of our Fourth Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws; •there are limitations on who can call special meetings of stockholders; •stockholders are not able to take action by written consent; and •advance notice is required for nominations of directors and for stockholder proposals. In addition, provisions of Delaware law and our stock option plans may also discourage, delay or prevent a change of control or unsolicited acquisition proposals. It may be difficult to enforce a judgment in the United States against us and our nonresident Chief Financial Officer and certain directors. Our Chief Financial Officer and two of our directors are not residents of the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States based upon the civil or criminal liabilities provisions of the United States federal securities laws against us or any of those persons or to effect service of process upon these persons in the United States. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 