Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows can be affected by a number of factors, including but not limited to those set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. Therefore, an investment in us involves some risks, including the risks described below. The risks discussed below are not the only risks that we may experience. If any of the following risks occur, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be negatively impacted. Health issues, litigation and government regulation relating to machining and manufacturing of beryllium-containing products could significantly reduce demand for our products, limit our ability to operate and adversely affect our profitability. If exposed to respirable beryllium fumes, dusts or powder, some individuals may demonstrate an allergic reaction to beryllium and may later develop a chronic lung disease known as chronic beryllium disease, or CBD. Some people who are diagnosed with CBD do not develop clinical symptoms at all. In others, the disease can lead to scarring and damage of lung tissue, causing clinical symptoms that include shortness of breath, wheezing and coughing. Severe cases of CBD can cause disability or death. Further, some scientists claim there is evidence of an association between beryllium exposure and lung cancer, and certain standard-setting organizations have classified beryllium and beryllium compounds as human carcinogens. 6 Table of Contents The health risks relating to exposure to beryllium have been, and will continue to be, a significant issue confronting the beryllium-containing products industry. The health risks associated with beryllium have resulted in product liability claims, employee and third-party lawsuits and increased levels of scrutiny by federal, state, foreign and international regulatory authorities. This scrutiny includes regulatory decisions relating to the approval or prohibition of the use of beryllium-containing material for various uses. Concerns over CBD and other potential adverse health effects relating to beryllium, as well as concerns regarding potential liability from the use of beryllium, may discourage our customers’ use of our beryllium-containing products and significantly reduce demand for our products. In addition, continued or increased adverse media coverage relating to our beryllium-containing products could damage our reputation or cause a decrease in demand for beryllium-containing products, which could adversely affect our profitability. Our bertrandite ore mining and beryllium-related manufacturing operations and some of our customers’ businesses are subject to extensive health and safety regulations that impose, and will continue to impose, significant costs and liabilities, and future regulation could increase those costs and liabilities or effectively prohibit production or use of beryllium-containing products. Our customers and we are subject to laws regulating worker exposure to beryllium. Standards for exposure to beryllium are under review by OSHA and by other governmental and private standard-setting organizations. One result of these reviews will likely be more stringent worker safety standards. Some organizations, such as the California Occupational Health and Safety Administration and the American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists, have adopted standards that are more stringent than the current standards of OSHA. The development, proposal or adoption of more stringent standards may affect buying decisions by the users of beryllium-containing products. If the standards are made more stringent and/or our customers or other downstream users decide to reduce their use of beryllium-containing products, our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The impact of this potential adverse effect would depend on the nature and extent of the changes to the standards, the cost and ability to meet the new standards, the extent of any reduction in customer use and other factors. The magnitude of this potential adverse effect cannot be estimated. Our bertrandite ore mining and manufacturing operations are subject to extensive environmental regulations that impose, and will continue to impose, significant costs and liabilities on us, and future regulation could increase these costs and liabilities or prevent production of beryllium-containing products. We are subject to a variety of governmental regulations relating to the environment, including those relating to our handling of hazardous materials and air and wastewater emissions. Some environmental laws impose substantial penalties for noncompliance. Others, such as the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, impose strict, retroactive and joint and several liability upon entities responsible for releases of hazardous substances. Bertrandite ore mining is also subject to extensive governmental regulation on matters such as permitting and licensing requirements, plant and wildlife protection, reclamation and restoration of mining properties, the discharge of materials into the environment and the effects that mining has on groundwater quality and availability. If we fail to comply with present and future environmental laws and regulations, we could be subject to liabilities or our operations could be interrupted. In addition, future environmental laws and regulations could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or extract our bertrandite ore deposits. These environmental laws and regulations could also require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses in connection with our business, which would increase our costs of production. The availability of competitive substitute materials for beryllium-containing products may reduce our customers’ demand for these products and reduce our sales. In certain product applications, we compete with manufacturers of non-beryllium-containing products, including organic composites, metal alloys or composites, titanium and aluminum. Our customers may choose to use substitutes for beryllium-containing products in their products for a variety of reasons, including, among other things, the lower costs of those substitutes, the health and safety concerns relating to these products and the risk of litigation relating to beryllium-containing products. If our customers use substitutes for beryllium- 7 Table of Contents containing products in their products, the demand for our beryllium-containing products may decrease, which could reduce our sales. The markets for our beryllium-containing and non-beryllium-containing products are experiencing rapid changes in technology. We operate in markets characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving customer specifications and industry standards. New products may quickly render an existing product obsolete and unmarketable. For example, at one time we produced beryllium-copper alloys that were used in the production of some golf club heads, but these beryllium-copper alloy club heads are no longer produced by any of our customers. Our growth and future results of operations depend in part upon our ability to enhance existing products and introduce newly developed products on a timely basis that conform to prevailing and evolving industry standards, meet or exceed technological advances in the marketplace, meet changing customer specifications, achieve market acceptance and respond to our competitors’ products. The process of developing new products can be technologically challenging and requires the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. We may not be able to introduce new products successfully or do so on a timely basis. If we fail to develop new products that are appealing to our customers or fail to develop products on time and within budgeted amounts, we may be unable to recover our significant research and development costs, which could adversely affect our margins and profitability. We are dependent on the successful scheduled completion of a new primary beryllium facility for our future supply of pure beryllium. We have partnered with the Department of Defense to share in the cost of a new beryllium pebble plant for primary beryllium feedstocks. We may experience government funding delays or cancellations, construction delays and quality and/or production issues in start up of this new facility. Any prolonged delays of pure beryllium production from the new pebble plant could negatively impact the Beryllium and Beryllium Composites segment. We are exposed to lawsuits in the normal course of business, which could harm our business. We are currently involved in certain legal proceedings, including those involving product liability claims, and employee and third-party lawsuits relating to exposure to beryllium as well as claims against us of infringement of intellectual property rights of third parties and other claims arising out of the ordinary conduct of our business. Due to the uncertainties of litigation, we can give no assurance that we will prevail on claims made against us in the lawsuits that we currently face or that additional claims will not be made against us in the future. Certain of these matters involve types of claims, that, if they result in an adverse ruling to us, could give rise to substantial liability which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. We are presently uninsured for beryllium-related claims where the claimants’ first exposure to beryllium occurred on or after January 1, 2008, and we have not undertaken to estimate the impact of such claims, which have yet to be asserted. In addition, some jurisdictions preclude insurance coverage for punitive damage awards. Accordingly, our profitability could be adversely affected if any current or future claimants obtain judgments for any uninsured compensatory or punitive damages. Further, an unfavorable outcome or settlement of a pending beryllium case or additional adverse media coverage could encourage the commencement of additional similar litigation. Our beryllium-containing and non-beryllium-containing products are deployed in complex applications and may have errors or defects that we find only after deployment. Our products are highly complex, designed to be deployed in complicated applications and may contain undetected defects, errors or failures. Although our products are generally tested during manufacturing, prior to deployment, they can only be fully tested when deployed in specific applications. For example, we sell beryllium-copper alloy strip products in a coil form to some customers, who then stamp the alloy for its specific purpose. On occasion, it is not until such customer stamps the alloy that a defect in the alloy is detected. In addition, we have experienced, on one occasion, a quality issue during the manufacturing ramp up of a new product. Consequently, 8 Table of Contents our customers may discover errors after the products have been deployed. The occurrence of any defects, errors, or failures could result in installation delays, product returns, termination of contracts with our customers, diversion of our resources, increased service and warranty costs and other losses to our customers, end users or to us. Any of these occurrences could also result in the loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products and could damage our reputation, which could reduce our sales. Many of our customers are subject to significant fluctuations as a result of the cyclical nature of their industries and their sensitivity to general economic conditions, which could adversely affect their demand for our products and reduce our sales and profitability. A substantial number of our customers are in the telecommunications and computer, data storage, aerospace and defense, automotive electronics, industrial components and appliance industries. Each of these industries is cyclical in nature, influenced by a combination of factors which could have a negative impact on our business, including, among other things, periods of economic growth or recession, strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar, the strength of the consumer electronics, automotive electronics and computer industries and the rate of construction of telecommunications infrastructure equipment and government spending on defense. Also, in times when growth rates in our markets slow down, there may be temporary inventory adjustments by our customers that may negatively affect our business. The current global economic crisis is having a negative impact on our financial performance. The global economic crisis continues to adversely affect the domestic and global economies. Some customers are experiencing difficulty in obtaining adequate financing due to the current disruption in the credit markets, which has impacted our sales. Our exposure to bad debt losses may also increase if customers are unable to pay for products previously ordered. The severe recession has also caused higher unemployment rates globally which could have an adverse affect on demand for consumer electronics, which comprised over 50% of our sales in 2008. Continuation or further deterioration of these financial and macroeconomic conditions may have a significant adverse effect on our sales, profitability and results of operations. We may not be able to complete our acquisition strategy or successfully integrate acquired businesses. We have been active over the last several years in pursuing niche acquisitions for one of our subsidiaries, Williams Advanced Materials Inc. We intend to continue to consider further growth opportunities through the acquisition of assets or companies and routinely review acquisition opportunities. We cannot predict whether we will be successful in pursuing any acquisition opportunities or what the consequences of any acquisition would be. Future acquisitions may involve the expenditure of significant funds and management time. Depending upon the nature, size and timing of future acquisitions, we may be required to raise additional financing, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms. Further, we may not be able to successfully integrate any acquired business with our existing businesses or recognize any expected advantages from any completed acquisition. In addition, there may be liabilities that we fail, or are unable, to discover in the course of performing due diligence investigations on the assets or companies we have already acquired or may acquire in the future. We cannot assure that rights to indemnification by the sellers of these assets or companies to us, even if obtained, will be enforceable, collectible or sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset the possible liabilities associated with the business or property acquired. Any such liabilities, individually or in the aggregate, could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The terms of our indebtedness may restrict our operations, including our ability to pursue our growth and acquisition strategies. The terms of our credit facilities contain a number of restrictive covenants, including restrictions in our ability to, among other things, borrow and make investments and acquire other businesses. These covenants could adversely affect us by limiting our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or to meet our capital needs, as well as adversely affect our ability to pursue our growth, acquisition strategies and other strategic initiatives. 9 Table of Contents Our failure to comply with the covenants contained in the terms of our indebtedness could result in an event of default which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition. The terms of our credit facilities require us to comply with various covenants, including financial covenants. If the current global economic crisis is prolonged, it could have a material adverse impact on our earnings and cash flow which could adversely affect our ability to comply with our financial covenants and could limit our borrowing capacity. Our ability to comply with these covenants depends, in part, on factors over which we may have no control. A breach of any of these covenants could result in an event of default under one or more of the agreements governing our indebtedness which, if not cured or waived, could give the holders of the defaulted indebtedness the right to terminate commitments to lend and cause all amounts outstanding with respect to the indebtedness to be due and payable immediately. Acceleration of any of our indebtedness could result in cross defaults under our other debt instruments. Our assets and cash flow may be insufficient to fully repay borrowings under all of our outstanding debt instruments if some or all of these instruments are accelerated upon an event of default, in which case we may be required to seek legal protection from our creditors. We conduct our sales and distribution operations on a worldwide basis and are subject to the risks associated with doing business outside the United States. We sell to customers outside of the United States from our United States and international operations. We have been and are continuing to expand our geographic reach in Europe and Asia. Shipments to customers outside of the United States accounted for approximately 35% of our sales in 2008, 43% in 2007, and 35% in 2006. We anticipate that international shipments will account for a significant portion of our sales for the foreseeable future. Revenue from non-United States operations (principally Europe and Asia) amounted to approximately 24% of our sales in 2008, 25% in 2007, and 23% in 2006. There are a number of risks associated with international business activities, including: • burdens to comply with multiple and potentially conflicting foreign laws and regulations, including export requirements, tariffs and other barriers, environmental health and safety requirements and unexpected changes in any of these factors; • difficulty in obtaining export licenses from the United States government; • political and economic instability and disruptions, including terrorist attacks; • potentially adverse tax consequences due to overlapping or differing tax structures; and • fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Additionally, foreign and international regulations have also impacted our sales, margins and profitability in the past. See also “— Health issues, litigation and government regulation relating to machining and manufacturing of beryllium-containing products could significantly reduce demand for our products, limit our ability to operate and adversely affect our profitability”, found on page 6 of this Form 10-K and “— Our bertrandite ore mining and beryllium-related manufacturing operations and some of our customers’ businesses are subject to extensive health and safety regulations that impose, and will continue to impose, significant costs and liabilities, and future regulation could increase those costs and liabilities or effectively prohibit production or use of beryllium-containing products”, found on page 7 on this Form 10-K. Further, any of these risks could continue in the future. A major portion of our bank debt consists of variable-rate obligations, which subjects us to interest rate fluctuations. Our credit facilities are secured by substantially all of our assets (other than non-mining real property and certain other assets). Our working capital line-of-credit includes variable-rate obligations, which expose us to interest rate risks. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on our variable-rate indebtedness would increase even if the amount borrowed remained the same, resulting in a decrease in our net income. We have developed a hedging program to manage the risks associated with interest rate fluctuations, but our program may not effectively eliminate all of the financial exposure associated with interest rate fluctuations. Additional information regarding our market risks is contained in Part II, Item 7A of this Form 10-K. 10 Table of Contents The availability and prices of some raw materials we use in our manufacturing operations fluctuate, and increases in raw material costs can increase our operating costs. We manufacture engineered materials using various precious and non-precious metals, including gold, silver, palladium, platinum, ruthenium, copper and nickel. The availability of and prices for these raw materials are subject to volatility and are influenced by worldwide economic conditions, speculative action, world supply and demand balances, inventory levels, availability of substitute metals, the U.S. dollar exchange rate, production costs of United States and foreign competitors, anticipated or perceived shortages and other factors. Decreased availability and fluctuating prices of precious and non-precious metals that we use in our manufacturing can increase our operating costs. For example, prices for copper have been very volatile in recent months due to global demand and market conditions. Further, we maintain some precious metals on a consigned inventory basis. The owners of the precious metals charge a fee that fluctuates based on the market price of those metals and other factors. A significant increase in the market price of precious metals or the consignment fee could increase our financing costs, which could increase our operating costs. We use ruthenium for the manufacture of perpendicular magnetic recording technology products for the data storage market. Ruthenium is not widely used or traded on a public market and therefore there is no established market for hedging price exposure. Although our selling price is generally based on our cost to purchase ruthenium, the inventory carrying value may be exposed to market fluctuations. For example, we experienced a 66% drop in the price of ruthenium during the fourth quarter 2008. Because we experience seasonal fluctuations in our sales, our quarterly results will fluctuate, and our annual performance will be affected by the fluctuations. Because many of our European and automotive electronics customers slow or cease operations during the summer months, we sometimes experience weaker demand in the quarters ending in September compared to the quarters ending in March, June and December. We expect this seasonal pattern to continue, which causes our quarterly results to fluctuate. If our revenue during any quarter were to fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, our share price could decline, perhaps significantly. Unfavorable economic conditions, lower than normal levels of demand and other occurrences in any of the other quarters could also harm our results of operations. Natural disasters, equipment failures, work stoppages, bankruptcies and other unexpected events may lead our customers to curtail production or shut down their operations. Our customers’ manufacturing operations are subject to conditions beyond their control, including raw material shortages, natural disasters, interruptions in electrical power or other energy services, equipment failures, bankruptcies, work stoppages due to strikes or lockouts, including those affecting the automotive industry, one of our major markets, and other unexpected events. For example, in 2005, Delphi Corporation, a customer of three of our business units and the largest United States supplier of automotive parts, filed for bankruptcy protection. To date, Delphi has not emerged from bankruptcy reorganization. Any of those events could also affect other suppliers to our customers. In either case, those events could cause our customers to curtail production or to shut down a portion or all of their operations, which could reduce their demand for our products and reduce our sales. Unexpected events and natural disasters at our mine could increase the cost of operating our business. A portion of our production costs at our mine are fixed regardless of current operating levels. Our operating levels are subject to conditions beyond our control that may increase the cost of mining for varying lengths of time. These conditions include, among other things, fire, natural disasters, pit wall failures and ore processing changes. Our mining operations also involve the handling and production of potentially explosive materials. It is possible that an explosion could result in death and injuries to employees and others and material property damage to third parties and us. Any explosion could expose us to adverse publicity or liability for damages and materially adversely affect our operations. Any of these events could increase our cost of operations. 11 Table of Contents Equipment failures and other unexpected events at our facilities may lead to manufacturing curtailments or shutdowns. The manufacturing processes that take place in our mining operation, as well as in our manufacturing facilities, depend on critical pieces of equipment. This equipment may, on occasion, be out of service because of unanticipated failure, and some equipment is not readily available or replaceable. In addition to equipment failures, our facilities are also subject to the risk of loss due to unanticipated events such as fires, explosions or other disasters. Material plant shutdowns or reductions in operations could harm our ability to fulfill our customers’ demands, which could harm our sales and cause our customers to find other suppliers. Further, remediation of any interruption in production capability may require us to make large capital expenditures, which may have a negative effect on our profitability and cash flows. Our business interruption insurance may not cover all of the lost revenues associated with interruptions in our manufacturing capabilities. Many of our manufacturing facilities are dependent on single source energy suppliers, and interruption in energy services may cause manufacturing curtailments or shutdowns. Many of our manufacturing facilities depend on one source for electric power and for natural gas. For example, Utah Power is the sole supplier of electric power to the processing facility for our mining operations in Utah. A significant interruption in service from our energy suppliers due to equipment failures, terrorism or any other cause may result in substantial losses that are not fully covered by our business interruption insurance. Any substantial unmitigated interruption of our operations due to these conditions could harm our ability to meet our customers’ demands and reduce our sales. If the price of electrical power, fuel or other energy sources increases, our operating expenses could increase significantly. We have numerous milling and manufacturing facilities and a mining operation, which depend on electrical power, fuel or other energy sources. See “Item 2. — Properties,” found on page 16 of this Form 10-K. Our operating expenses are sensitive to changes in electricity prices and fuel prices, including natural gas prices. Prices for electricity and natural gas have continued to increase and can fluctuate widely with availability and demand levels from other users. During periods of peak usage, supplies of energy may be curtailed, and we may not be able to purchase energy at historical market rates. While we have some long-term contracts with energy suppliers, we are exposed to fluctuations in energy costs that can affect our production costs. Although we enter into forward-fixed price supply contracts for natural gas and electricity for use in our operations, those contracts are of limited duration and do not cover all of our fuel or electricity needs. Price increases in fuel and electricity costs will continue to increase our cost of operations. We have a limited number of manufacturing facilities, and damage to those facilities could interrupt our operations, increase our costs of doing business and impair our ability to deliver our products on a timely basis. Some of our facilities are interdependent. For instance, our manufacturing facility, in Elmore, Ohio relies on our mining operation for its supply of beryllium hydroxide used in production of most of its beryllium-containing materials. Additionally, our Reading, Pennsylvania, Fremont, California and Tucson, Arizona manufacturing facilities are dependent on materials produced by our Elmore, Ohio manufacturing facility and our Wheatfield, New York manufacturing facility is dependent on our Buffalo, New York manufacturing facility. See “Item 2 — Properties”, found on page 16 of this Form 10-K. The destruction or closure of any of our manufacturing facilities or our mine for a significant period of time as a result of fire, explosion, act of war or terrorism or other natural disaster or unexpected event may interrupt our manufacturing capabilities, increase our capital expenditures and our costs of doing business and impair our ability to deliver our products on a timely basis. In such an event, we may need to resort to an alternative source of manufacturing or to delay production, which could increase our costs of doing business. Our property damage and business interruption insurance may not cover all of our potential losses and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. 12 Table of Contents Our lengthy and variable sales and development cycle makes it difficult for us to predict if and when a new product will be sold to customers. Our sales and development cycle, which is the period from the generation of a sales lead or new product idea through the development of the product and the recording of sales, may typically take up to two or three years, making it very difficult to forecast sales and results of operations. Our inability to accurately predict the timing and magnitude of sales of our products, especially newly introduced products, could affect our ability to meet our customers’ product delivery requirements or cause our results of operations to suffer if we incur expenses in a particular period that do not translate into sales during that period, or at all. In addition, these failures would make it difficult to plan future capital expenditure needs and could cause us to fail to meet our cash flow requirements. Future terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may directly harm our operations. Future terrorist attacks or other acts of violence or war may directly impact our physical facilities. For example, our Elmore, Ohio facility is located near and derives power from a nuclear power plant, which could be a target for a terrorist attack. In addition, future terrorist attacks, related armed conflicts or prolonged or increased tensions in the Middle East or other regions of the world could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease, decreasing demand for consumer goods that contain our products. Further, when the United States armed forces are involved in active hostilities or large-scale deployments, defense spending tends to focus more on meeting the physical needs of the troops, and planned expenditures on weapons and other systems incorporating our products may be reduced or deferred. Any of these occurrences could also increase volatility in the United States and worldwide financial markets, which could negatively impact our sales. We may be unable to access the financial markets on favorable terms. The inability to raise capital on favorable terms, particularly during times of uncertainty in the financial markets, could impact our ability to sustain and grow our business and would increase our capital costs. In particular, the substantial volatility in world capital markets due to the global economic crisis has had a significant negative impact on the domestic and global financial markets. We rely on access to financial markets as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by cash on hand or operating cash flow. Our access to the financial markets could be adversely impacted by various factors, including: • Changes in credit markets that reduce available credit or the ability to renew existing liquidity facilities on acceptable terms; • A deterioration of our credit; • A deterioration in the financial condition of the banks in which we do business; • Extreme volatility in our markets that increases margin or credit requirements; and • The collateral pledge of substantially all of our assets in connection with our existing indebtedness, which limits our flexibility in raising additional capital. All of these factors have adversely impacted our access to the financial markets at various times over the last five years. The recent global economic crisis may make it difficult for us to access the credit market and to obtain financing or refinancing, as the case may be, to the extent necessary, on satisfactory terms or at all. Low investment performance by our domestic pension plan assets may require us to increase our pension liability and expense, which may require us to fund a portion of our pension obligations and divert funds from other potential uses. We provide defined benefit pension plans to eligible employees. Our pension expense and our required contributions to our pension plans are directly affected by the value of plan assets, the projected rate of return on plan assets, the actual rate of return on plan assets and the actuarial assumptions we use to measure our defined benefit pension plan obligations, including the rate at which future obligations are discounted to a present value, or 13 Table of Contents the discount rate. As of December 31, 2008, for pension accounting purposes, we assumed an 8.25% rate of return on pension assets. Lower investment performance of our pension plan assets resulting from a decline in the stock market could significantly increase the deficit position of our plans. Should the pension asset return fall below our expectations, it is likely that future pension expenses would increase. The actual return on our plan assets for the twelve months ending December 31, 2008 was a loss of 24%. We establish the discount rate used to determine the present value of the projected and accumulated benefit obligation at the end of each year based upon the available market rates for high quality, fixed income investments. An increase in the discount rate would reduce the future pension expense and, conversely, a lower discount rate would raise the future pension expense. Based on current guidelines, assumptions and estimates, including stock market prices and interest rates, we anticipate that we will be required to make a cash contribution of approximately $18.3 million to our pension plan in 2009. If our current assumptions and estimates are not correct, a contribution in years beyond 2009 may be greater than the projected 2009 contribution required. We cannot predict whether changing market or economic conditions, regulatory changes or other factors will further increase our pension expenses or funding obligations, diverting funds we would otherwise apply to other uses. Our expenditures for post-retirement health benefits could be materially higher than we have predicted if our underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect. We also provide post-retirement health benefits to eligible employees. Our retiree health expense is directly affected by the assumptions we use to measure our retiree health plan obligations, including the assumed rate at which health care costs will increase and the discount rate used to calculate future obligations. For retiree health accounting purposes, we decreased the assumed rate at which health care costs will increase for the next year to 8% at December 31, 2008 from 9% at December 31, 2007. In addition, we have assumed that this health care cost increase trend rate will decline to 5% by 2012. We have used the same discount rates for our retiree health plans that we use for our pension plan accounting. Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the health care plans. A one percentage point increase in assumed health care cost trend rates would have increased the post-employment benefits included among the liabilities in our balance sheet by $0.8 million at December 31, 2008. We cannot predict whether changing market or economic conditions, regulatory changes or other factors will further increase our retiree health care expenses or obligations, diverting funds we would otherwise apply to other uses. We are subject to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which may negatively affect our financial performance. A significant portion of our sales is conducted in international markets and priced in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Revenues from customers outside of the United States (principally Europe and Asia) amounted to 35% of sales in 2008, 43% in 2007 and 35% in 2006. A significant part of these international sales are priced in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Significant fluctuations in currency values relative to the U.S. dollar may negatively affect our financial performance. In the past, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, particularly for the euro and the yen, have impacted our sales, margins and profitability. The fair value of our net liability relating to outstanding foreign currency contracts was $1.2 million at December 31, 2008, indicating that the average hedge rates were unfavorable compared to the actual year-end market exchange rates. While we may hedge our currency transactions to mitigate the impact of currency price volatility on our earnings, any hedging activities may not be successful. 14 Table of Contents Our holding company structure causes us to rely on funds from our subsidiaries. We are a holding company and conduct substantially all our operations through our subsidiaries. As a holding company, we are dependent upon dividends or other intercompany transfers of funds from our subsidiaries. The payment of dividends and other payments to us by our subsidiaries may be restricted by, among other things, applicable corporate and other laws and regulations, agreements of the subsidiaries and the terms of our current and future indebtedness. Our financial results are likely to be negatively impacted by an impairment of goodwill pursuant to Statement No. 142 should our shareholder equity exceed our market capitalization for a number of quarters. A goodwill impairment charge may be triggered by a reduction in actual and projected cash flows, which could be negatively impacted by the market price of our common shares. Our goodwill balance at December 31, 2008 was $35.8 million. Any required non-cash impairment charge could significantly reduce this balance and have a material impact on our reported financial position and results of operations. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 15 Table of Contents 