ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS WE HAVE INCURRED SUBSTANTIAL LOSSES IN RECENT YEARS AND OUR RETURN TO PROFITABILITY IS UNCERTAIN We incurred net losses of $7.3 million in the year ended December 31, 2004, $9.3 million in the year ended December 31, 2005 and $15.8 million in the year ended December 31, 2006, and we had an accumulated deficit at December 31, 2006 of $150.2 million. Our recent results have been impacted by a number of factors, including decisions to defer revenue associated with one of our software products and relatively high research and development expense related to our efforts to resolve deficiencies in that product, and we cannot assure you that we will not be affected by these or other factors in future periods. We cannot assure you that we will achieve sufficient revenues to become profitable in the future. 10 Table of Contents IT IS DIFFICULT FOR US TO PREDICT WHEN OR IF SALES WILL OCCUR AND WHEN WE WILL RECOGNIZE THE REVENUE FROM OUR FUTURE SALES Our clients view the purchase of our software applications and related professional services as a significant and strategic decision. As a result, clients carefully evaluate our software products and services, often over long periods. The license of our software products may be subject to delays if the client has lengthy internal budgeting, approval and evaluation processes, which are quite common in the context of introducing large enterprise-wide technology solutions. The length of this evaluation process varies from client to client. Our clients have also shown a growing interest in licensing our software on a subscription basis, which results in deferral of payments and revenues that would otherwise be reportable if a traditional perpetual license were executed. Our revenue forecasts and internal budgets are based, in part, on our best assumptions about the mix of future subscription licenses versus perpetual licenses. If we enter into a larger proportion of subscription agreements than planned, we may experience an unplanned shortfall in revenues or cash during that quarter. A significant percentage of our expenses, particularly personnel costs and rent, are fixed costs and are based in part on expectations of future revenues. We may be unable to reduce spending in a timely manner to compensate for any significant fluctuations in revenues and cash. Accordingly, shortfalls in current revenues, as we experienced in recent quarters, may cause our operating results to be below the expectations of public market analysts or investors, which could cause the value of our common stock to decline. WE CANNOT GUARANTEE THAT OUR DEFERRED REVENUE WILL BE RECOGNIZED AS PLANNED In 2005 we became aware of certain deficiencies in the then-current version of one of our software products, which had first been shipped to customers in the fourth quarter of 2004. These deficiencies, which were not identified in pre-release product testing, affected the performance of the software for a portion of our customers, depending on each customer’s particular implementation environment and its intended use of the software. We have generally not recognized revenue from sales of this software product and related implementation services beginning in the third quarter of 2005, except in limited cases. As of December 31, 2006, we have deferred $3.5 million of otherwise-recognizable license and professional service revenue. We intend to continue deferring revenue in connection with license sales and implementation services for this software product until it has been demonstrated at customer sites that the new release of the software is free of significant performance deficiencies. If we are not successful in resolving these deficiencies on a timely basis, we may not be able to recognize this deferred revenue as we have projected. OUR CASH POSITION HAS DECLINED AND WILL LIKELY CONTINUE TO DECLINE UNTIL WE RETURN TO SUSTAINED PROFITABILITY Our future long-term capital needs will depend significantly on the rate of growth of our business, our profitability, the mix of subscription licensing arrangements versus perpetual licenses sold, possible acquisitions, the timing of expanded product offerings and the success of these offerings if and when they are launched. Accordingly, our future long-term cash needs and cash flows are subject to substantial uncertainty. If our current balance of cash and cash equivalents is insufficient to satisfy our long-term liquidity needs, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities to raise funds, and those future securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the rights of our common stock. In connection with a sale of stock, our stockholders would experience dilution. In addition, we cannot be certain that additional financing will be available to us on favorable terms when required, or at all. WE NEED TO GROW IN MARKETS OTHER THAN THE HEALTH AND LIFE SCIENCES MARKET FOR OUR FUTURE GROWTH Our business plan has been to reduce our reliance on the health and life sciences market, which has traditionally been the primary source of our revenues, by increasing sales in our Industry Solutions line of business, our non-health and life sciences business. Revenues from the Industry Solutions segment have comprised 27.3%, 24.4% and 26.0%, respectively, of our consolidated revenues for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2005 and 2006. We have not been successful in generating the revenue growth we expected from these markets and we cannot assure you that we will be 11 Table of Contents successful in the future. One of our key software products in the Industry Solutions segment has experienced certain deficiencies which we are working to resolve, and with respect to sales of which we have deferred revenue. See “We cannot guarantee that our deferred revenue will be recognized as planned.” WE MAY NOT BE SUCCESSFUL IN DEVELOPING OR ACQUIRING NEW TECHNOLOGIES OR BUSINESSES AND THIS COULD HINDER OUR EXPANSION EFFORTS Despite our intentions to reduce our product research and development efforts to levels more customary for our industry, in the near term we may continue our product research and development efforts at levels similar to current expenditures. We have had quality issues with one of our software products, which have affected our sales and have caused us to defer revenue recognition, and these issues may continue. We may consider additional acquisitions of or new investments in complementary businesses, products, services or technologies. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in our product development efforts or that we will be able to identify appropriate acquisition or investment candidates. Even if we do identify suitable candidates, we cannot assure you that we will be able to make such acquisitions or investments on commercially acceptable terms. Furthermore, we may incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisitions. The issuance of equity securities could be dilutive to our existing stockholders and the issuance of debt could limit our available cash and accordingly restrict our activities. WE HAVE MANY COMPETITORS AND POTENTIAL COMPETITORS AND WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO COMPETE EFFECTIVELY The market for our products and services is competitive and subject to rapid change. We encounter significant competition for the sale of our contract management software from the internal information systems departments of existing and potential clients, software companies that target the contract management markets and professional services organizations. Our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of products and services offered. We anticipate increased competition for market share and pressure to reduce prices and make sales concessions, particularly in our Industry Solutions segment, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues and margins. WE HAVE MULTIPLE FACILITIES AND WE MAY EXPERIENCE DIFFICULTIES IN OPERATING FROM THESE DIFFERENT LOCATIONS We operate out of our corporate headquarters in Edison, New Jersey, engineering offices in Redwood City, California and Portland, Maine, and an office facility in London, England. The geographic distance between our offices makes it more challenging for our management and other employees to collaborate and communicate with each other than if they were all located in a single facility, and, as a result, increases the strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources. Also, a significant number of our sales and professional services employees work remotely out of home offices, which adds to this strain. WE MAY NOT BE SUCCESSFUL IN RETAINING AND ATTRACTING TALENTED AND KEY EMPLOYEES We depend on the services of our senior management and key technical personnel. The loss of the services of key employees, and the inability to attract new employees to fill crucial roles, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. WE EXPERIENCED CHANGES OF SENIOR MANAGEMENT IN 2005 AND 2006, WHICH MAY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS, PARTICULARLY IN THE SHORT TERM In August 2005, we announced the departure of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer and the appointment of a new Chairman of the Board with certain executive powers and a new Acting President and Chief Executive Officer. In February 2006, our Acting President and Chief Executive Officer resigned, and our Chairman of the Board assumed his duties on an interim basis. In August 2006, our acting President and Chief Executor Officer was appointed to these duties on a permanent basis. Changes of this nature can create a level of uncertainty and potential 12 Table of Contents disruption to relationships with customers, prospective customers, employees and business partners, particularly in the short term. Our leadership will need time to become more familiar with the Company and its culture. This leadership change could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. OUR EFFORTS TO PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY MAY NOT BE FULLY EFFECTIVE, AND WE MAY INADVERTENTLY INFRINGE ON THE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY OF OTHERS Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain the use of information that we regard as proprietary. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States. We cannot assure investors that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop similar technology. We are not aware that any of our products infringe the proprietary rights of third parties. We cannot assure investors, however, that third parties will not claim infringement by us with respect to current or future products. We expect that software product developers will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable 