Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to the Extensive Regulation of Our Business If we fail to comply with the extensive regulatory requirements for our business, we could face significant restrictions on our operations and monetary penalties, including loss of access to federal loans and grants for our learners on which we are substantially dependent. In 2008, we derived approximately 75% of our revenues (calculated on a cash basis) from federal student financial aid programs, referred to in this report as Title IV programs, administered by the U.S. Department of Education. A significant percentage of our learners rely on the availability of Title IV program funds to cover their cost of attendance at Capella University and related educational expenses. Title IV programs include educational loans for our learners from both private lenders and the federal government at below-market interest rates that are guaranteed by the federal government in the event of default. Title IV programs also include several income-based grant programs for learners with the greatest economic need as determined in accordance with Department of Education regulations. To participate in Title IV programs, a school must receive and maintain authorization by the appropriate state higher education agencies, be accredited by an accrediting agency recognized by the Secretary of the Department of Education and be certified as an eligible institution by the Department of Education. As a result, we are subject to extensive regulation by state higher education agencies, our accrediting agency, and the Department of Education. These regulatory requirements cover the vast majority of our operations, including our educational programs, facilities, instructional and administrative staff, administrative procedures, marketing, recruiting, financial operations and financial condition. These regulatory requirements can also affect our ability to acquire or open additional schools, to add new or expand existing educational programs and to change our corporate structure and ownership. The state higher education agencies, our accrediting agency and the Department of Education periodically revise their requirements and modify their interpretations of existing requirements. If we fail to comply with any of these regulatory requirements, our regulatory agencies could impose monetary penalties, place limitations on our operations, terminate our ability to grant degrees and certificates, revoke our accreditation and/or terminate our eligibility to receive Title IV program funds, each of which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, should we fail to properly comply with the regulatory requirements set forth in the following risk factors, and as a result be charged, sanctioned, subjected to loss of a federal, state or agency approval or authorization, or otherwise be penalized in some way, our reputation could be damaged and such damage could have a negative impact on our stock price. We cannot predict with certainty how all of these regulatory requirements will be applied or whether we will be able to comply with all of the requirements in the future. We have described some of the most significant regulatory risks that apply to us in the following paragraphs. If we are not recertified to participate in Title IV programs by the Department of Education or if the Department otherwise suspends or terminates our certification, we would lose eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. Capella University’s current certification to participate in Title IV programs expired on December 31, 2008. We timely submitted our Title IV recertification application to the Department of Education in September 2008 and our eligibility continues on a month-to-month basis until the Department of Education issues its decision on the application. Generally, the recertification process includes a review by the Department of Education of an institution’s educational programs and locations, administrative capability, financial responsibility, and other oversight categories. The Department of Education may also review our continued certification to participate in Title IV programs in the event we expand our activities in certain ways, such as opening an additional location or, in certain cases, if we modify the academic credentials that we offer. The Department of Education could limit, suspend or terminate our participation in Title IV programs for violations of the Higher Education Act or Title IV regulations. Title IV eligibility is critical to the continued operation of our business. If Capella University is not recertified, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 24 Table of Contents Congress may change the law or reduce funding for Title IV programs, which could reduce our learner population, revenues and profit margin. Congress reauthorizes the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended (the Higher Education Act) and other laws governing Title IV programs approximately every five to eight years. The last reauthorization of the Higher Education Act was completed in August 2008, which extends authorization through September 2013. Additionally, Congress reviews and determines appropriations for Title IV programs on an annual basis through the budget and appropriations process. Any action by Congress that significantly reduces funding for Title IV programs or the ability of our school or learners to participate in these programs could reduce the ability of certain of our learners to finance their education, and could thereby have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Congressional action may also require us to modify our practices in ways that could increase our administrative costs and reduce our profit margin, which could also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If the U.S. Congress significantly reduced the amount of available Title IV program funding, we would attempt to arrange for alternative sources of financial aid for our learners. We cannot assure that one or more private organizations would be willing or able to provide loans to learners attending Capella University, or that the interest rate and other terms of such loans would be as favorable as for Title IV program loans or acceptable to our learners, and therefore our enrollment could be materially impacted. In addition, private organizations could require us to guarantee all or part of this assistance and we might incur other additional costs. If we provided more direct financial assistance to our learners, we would incur additional costs and assume increased credit risks, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Education has an ongoing compliance audit of Capella University which may result in repayment of Title IV funds, interest, fines, penalties, remedial action and damage to our reputation in the industry. The Office of Inspector General (“OIG”) of the U.S. Department of Education is responsible for, among other things, promoting the effectiveness and integrity of the Department of Education’s programs and operations. With respect to educational institutions that participate in the Title IV funding programs, the OIG conducts its work primarily through compliance audits and investigations. An OIG compliance audit typically focuses upon whether an institution administers federal funds in accordance with applicable rules and regulations, whereas an investigation typically indicates a concern regarding potential fraud or abuse involving federal funds. In our case, the OIG has conducted a compliance audit (and not an investigation) of Capella University. The period under audit is the Title IV award years of 2002-2003, 2003-2004 and 2004-2005 (with each award year commencing on July 1st). The audit commenced on April 10, 2006 and we subsequently provided the OIG with periodic information, responded to follow up inquiries and facilitated site visits and access to our records. The OIG completed its field work in January 2007 and we received a draft audit report on August 23, 2007. Capella University provided written comments on the draft audit report to the OIG on September 25, 2007. On March 7, 2008, the OIG’s final report was issued to the Acting Chief Operating Officer (COO) for Federal Student Aid (FSA), which is responsible for primary oversight of the Title IV funding programs. The Company responded to the final report on April 8, 2008. Recently, the Company provided FSA staff with certain requested information for financial aid years 2002-2003 through 2006-2007. The FSA will subsequently issue final findings and requirements for Capella University. The FSA may take certain actions, including that we refund certain federal student aid funds, modify our Title IV administration procedures and pay fines or penalties. The audit primarily focused on whether we properly calculated the amount of Title IV funds required to be returned for learners who withdrew from Capella University without providing an official notification of withdrawal and without engaging in the course room prior to such withdrawal. In its final report, the OIG 25 Table of Contents identified several such learners for whom it believes proper returns of Title IV funds were not made. Based on the final audit report, the most significant potential financial exposure from the audit relates to repayments to the Department of Education that could be required if the FSA concludes that the Company did not properly calculate the amount of Title IV funds required to be returned for learners that withdrew from Capella University without providing an official notification of such withdrawal and without engaging in the course room prior to such withdrawal. If the FSA determines that Capella University improperly withheld any portion of these funds, Capella University would be required to return the improperly withheld funds. We and the OIG have differing interpretations of the relevant regulations regarding what constitutes engagement in the unofficial withdrawal context. As we interpret the engagement requirement, we currently estimate that for the three year audit period, and for the subsequent aid years through 2007-2008, the total amount of Title IV funds not returned—for learners who withdrew without providing official notification and without engaging as required by the relevant regulations—was approximately $1.0 million including interest, but not including fines and penalties. As part of our internal process of continuously evaluating and attempting to improve our policies and procedures, prior to the initiation of the OIG audit we had already begun modifying our policies and procedures for determining whether a learner is engaged in course room activity. We developed these policies and procedures during spring 2006 and fully implemented them for the 2006-2007 financial aid year. Based on our review and interpretation of the applicable regulations, we believe that these revised policies and procedures appropriately measure whether or not a learner has engaged prior to withdrawal without providing official notification. However, the OIG is currently interpreting the relevant regulations to require a different measure of engagement in academic activity in such circumstances. If this difference of interpretation is ultimately resolved in a manner adverse to us, then the total amount of Title IV funds not returned for learners who withdrew without providing official notification would be greater than the amount we have currently estimated. The audit also focused on our policies and procedures for disbursing Title IV funding to learners, and to a lesser extent on our communication to our learners of our satisfactory academic progress policy, our exit counseling for federal student loan recipients, and our review of learners’ financial aid histories prior to disbursing Title IV funding. See “Regulatory Environment—Regulation of Federal Student Financial Aid Programs—Compliance Reviews” for information about the OIG audit staff’s inquiries. Because of the ongoing nature of the OIG audit process, we can neither know nor predict with certainty the ultimate extent of the final audit findings, or the potential liability or remedial actions that might result. Such findings and related remedial action may have an adverse impact on our reputation in the industry, our cash flows and results of operations and our ability to recruit learners, and may have an adverse effect on our stock price. The possible effects of a finding of a regulatory violation (including refunds, fines, penalties and limitations, conditions, suspension or termination of our participation in Title IV programs) are described more fully in “Regulatory Environment—Regulation of Federal Student Financial Aid Programs—Potential Effect of Regulatory Violations.” If we fail to maintain our institutional accreditation, we would lose our ability to participate in Title IV programs and lose our authorization to operate in a number of states. Capella University is accredited by The Higher Learning Commission of the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools, one of six regional accrediting agencies recognized by the Secretary of the Department of Education as a reliable indicator of educational quality. Accreditation by a recognized accrediting agency is required for an institution to become and remain eligible to participate in Title IV programs. In February 2008, we received a letter of reaffirmation from The Higher Learning Commission, effective through 2015. To remain accredited we must continuously meet certain criteria and standards relating to, among other things, performance, governance, institutional integrity, educational quality, faculty, administrative capability, resources and financial stability. Failure to meet any of these criteria or standards could result in the loss of accreditation at the discretion of The Higher Learning Commission. The loss of accreditation would, among other things, render our learners and us ineligible to participate in Title IV programs, reduce the marketability of a Capella degree and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 26 Table of Contents If Capella University does not maintain its registration in Minnesota, it may not operate or participate in Title IV programs or operate a number of other states. A school that grants degrees, diplomas or certificates must be authorized by the relevant education agency of the state in which it is located. Capella University is deemed to be located in the State of Minnesota and is registered with the Minnesota Office of Higher Education. State registration is also required for our learners to be eligible to receive funding under Title IV programs. Such registration may be lost or withdrawn if Capella University fails to submit renewal applications and other required submissions to the state in a timely manner, or if Capella University fails to comply with material requirements under Minnesota statutes and rules for continued registration. Loss of state registration of Capella University from the Minnesota Office of Higher Education would terminate our ability to provide educational services as well as our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. Capella must also remain in good standing with the Minnesota Office of Higher Education to obtain and maintain authorization or licensure to operate in states outside of Minnesota. Should our registration with the Minnesota Office of Higher Education be terminated, our ability to operate in other states would also cease. Increased oversight and changes in student loan environment may negatively impact our business. As a result of increased scrutiny on student loan programs, including the Title IV programs, Congress has passed new laws, the Department of Education has enacted stricter regulations, and several states have adopted codes of conduct or enacted state laws that regulate the conduct of lenders, schools, and school personnel. These new laws and regulations, among other things, limit schools’ relationships with lenders, restrict the types of services that schools may receive from lenders, prohibit lenders from providing other types of funding to schools in exchange for Title IV loan volume, require schools to provide additional information to learners concerning institutionally preferred lenders, and significantly reduce the amount of federal payments to lenders who participate in the Title IV loan programs. In addition, recent adverse market conditions for consumer loans in general have affected the student lending marketplace. The cumulative impact of these developments and conditions has caused some lenders to cease providing Title IV loans to learners, including some lenders that have previously provided Title IV loans to our learners. Other lenders have reduced the benefits and increased the fees associated with the Title IV loans they do provide. These actions by lenders have required some institutions to modify student loan practices in ways that result in higher administrative costs. If the costs of their Title IV loans increase, some learners may decide not to take out loans and not enroll in a postsecondary institution. In May 2008, new federal legislation was enacted to attempt to ensure that all eligible learners will be able to obtain Title IV loans in the future and that a sufficient number of lenders will continue to provide Title IV loans. Among other things, the new legislation: • authorizes the Department of Education to purchase Title IV loans from lenders, thereby providing capital to the lenders to enable them to continue making Title IV loans to learners; and • permits the Department of Education to designate institutions eligible to participate in a “lender of last resort” program, under which federally recognized student loan guaranty agencies will be required to make Title IV loans to all otherwise eligible learners at those institutions. Capella University cannot predict whether this legislation and related actions by the Department of Education will be effective in ensuring our learners’ access to Title IV loan funding. The uncertainty surrounding these issues, and any resolution of these issues that increases loan costs or reduces learners’ access to Title IV loans, may adversely affect our enrollments. If our learners and potential learners are unable to receive loans on acceptable terms, they may not be able to, or might choose not to, enroll, which could materially and adversely affect our enrollment, revenues and results of operations. We are subject to sanctions if we fail to correctly calculate and timely return Title IV program funds for learners who withdraw before completing their educational program. A school participating in Title IV programs must correctly calculate the amount of unearned Title IV program funds that have been disbursed to learners who withdraw from their educational programs before completion and 27 Table of Contents must return those unearned funds in a timely manner, generally within 45 days of the date the school determines that the learner has withdrawn. Under Department of Education regulations, late returns of Title IV program funds for 5% or more of learners sampled on the institution’s annual compliance audit constitutes material non-compliance. If unearned funds are not properly calculated and timely returned, an institution may have to post a letter of credit in favor of the Department of Education or otherwise be sanctioned by the Department of Education. In September 2008, Capella University issued the Department of Education an irrevocable letter of credit in the amount of $1.1 million, which expires July 31, 2009, in connection with the amount of Title IV program funds that we returned for learners who withdrew from their educational programs before completion and without providing official notification of such withdrawal. While issuance of this letter of credit did not have a significant impact on our cost of regulatory compliance, any future violations or sanctions could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. A failure to demonstrate “financial responsibility” may result in the loss of eligibility by Capella University to participate in Title IV programs or require the posting of a letter of credit to maintain eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. To participate in Title IV programs, an eligible institution must satisfy specific measures of financial responsibility prescribed by the Department of Education, or post a letter of credit in favor of the Department of Education and possibly accept other conditions on its participation in Title IV programs. The Department of Education may also apply such measures of financial responsibility to the operating company and ownership entities of an eligible institution and, if such measures are not satisfied by the operating company or ownership entities, require the institution to post a letter of credit in favor of the Department of Education and possibly accept other conditions on its participation in Title IV programs. Any obligation to post a significant letter of credit could increase our costs of regulatory compliance. If Capella University is unable to secure a letter of credit, it would lose its eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. In addition to the obligation to post a letter of credit, an institution that is determined by the Department of Education not to be financially responsible can be transferred from the “advance” system of payment of Title IV funds to cash monitoring status or to the “reimbursement” system of payment. Limitations on, or termination of, Capella University’s participation in Title IV programs as a result of its failure to demonstrate financial responsibility would limit Capella University’s learners’ access to Title IV program funds, which could significantly reduce our enrollments and revenues and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. A failure to demonstrate “administrative capability” may result in the loss of Capella University’s eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. Department of Education regulations specify extensive criteria an institution must satisfy to establish that it has the requisite “administrative capability” to participate in Title IV programs. These criteria require, among other things, that the institution: • comply with all applicable Title IV program regulations; • have capable and sufficient personnel to administer the federal student financial aid programs; • have acceptable methods of defining and measuring the satisfactory academic progress of its learners; • not have cohort default debt rates above specified levels; • have various procedures in place for safeguarding federal funds; • not be, and not have any principal or affiliate who is, debarred or suspended from federal contracting or engaging in activity that is cause for debarment or suspension; • provide financial aid counseling to its learners; • refer to the Department of Education’s Office of Inspector General any credible information indicating that any applicant, learner, employee or agent of the institution has been engaged in any fraud or other illegal conduct involving Title IV programs; 28 Table of Contents • submit in a timely manner all reports and financial statements required by the regulations; and • not otherwise appear to lack administrative capability. If an institution fails to satisfy any of these criteria or comply with any other Department of Education regulations, the Department of Education may: • require the repayment of Title IV funds; • transfer the institution from the “advance” system of payment of Title IV funds to cash monitoring status or to the “reimbursement” system of payment; • place the institution on provisional certification status; or • commence a proceeding to impose a fine or to limit, suspend or terminate the participation of the institution in Title IV programs. If we are found not to have satisfied the Department of Education’s “administrative capability” requirements we could be limited in our access to, or lose, Title IV program funding, which would significantly reduce our enrollment and revenues and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to sanctions if we pay impermissible commissions, bonuses or other incentive payments to individuals involved in certain recruiting, admissions or financial aid activities. A school participating in Title IV programs may not provide any commission, bonus or other incentive payment to any person involved in learner recruiting or admission activities or in making decisions regarding the awarding of Title IV program funds based on success in enrolling learners or securing financial aid. If we violate this law, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by the Department of Education. Any such fines or sanctions could harm our reputation, impose significant costs on us, and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our failure to comply with regulations of various states could result in actions taken by those states that would have a material adverse effect on our enrollments, revenues and results of operations. Various states impose regulatory requirements on educational institutions operating within their boundaries. Several states have sought to assert jurisdiction over online educational institutions that have no physical location or other presence in the state but offer educational services to learners who reside in the state, or that advertise to or recruit prospective learners in the state. State regulatory requirements for online education are inconsistent between states and not well developed in many jurisdictions. As such, these requirements change frequently and, in some instances, are not clear or are left to the discretion of state employees or agents. Our changing business and the constantly changing regulatory environment require us to continually evaluate our state regulatory compliance activities. In the event we are found not to be in compliance, and a state seeks to restrict one or more of our business activities within its boundaries, we may not be able to recruit learners from that state and may have to cease providing service to learners in that state. 29 Table of Contents Capella University is subject to extensive regulations by the states in which it is authorized or licensed to operate. In addition to Minnesota, Capella University is authorized or licensed in the following 17 states for all or some of its programs because we have determined that our activities in these states constitute a physical presence or otherwise require authorization or licensure by the respective state higher educational agencies: State Capella University Activity Constituting Presence Requiring Licensure or Authorization Alabama Agreement with a former provider of library services to Capella learners. Arizona Capella conducts activities in the state that constitutes physical presence. Arkansas Agreement with WalMart Stores, Inc. constitutes physical presence. Florida Recruiting activities in the state. Georgia Direct marketing and recruiting activities in the state. Illinois State agency broadly interprets licensure requirements to cover all institutions serving residents of the state. Kentucky Direct marketing and recruiting activities in the state. Nevada Direct marketing and recruiting activities in the state. North Carolina Learners participating in practica and internships triggers physical presence Ohio Direct marketing and recruiting activities in the state for select programs. Pennsylvania Direct marketing and recruiting activities in the state South Carolina Direct marketing and recruiting activities in the state Virginia Direct marketing and recruiting activities in the state; agreements with community colleges. Washington Direct marketing and recruiting activities in the state West Virginia Direct marketing and recruiting activities in the state. Wisconsin State agency broadly interprets licensure requirements to cover all institutions serving residents of the state. Wyoming State agency interprets registration requirements to cover all institutions who have faculty residing in their state As of the last day of classes for the quarter ended December 31, 2008, the number of learners living in each of these states (other than Minnesota, North Carolina, Florida and Georgia) was less than 5% of our total enrollment. As of the last day of classes for the quarter ended December 31, 2008, approximately 5% of our learners lived in Minnesota and North Carolina, respectively, approximately 7% lived in Florida and approximately 9% lived in Georgia. In some cases, the licensure or authorization to operate is only for specific programs. In the majority of these states, Capella University has determined that separate licensure or authorization for its certificate programs is not necessary, although approval of certificate programs is required and has been obtained from the States of Arizona, Florida, Ohio and Washington. State laws typically establish standards for instruction, qualifications of faculty, administrative procedures, marketing, recruiting, financial operations and other operational matters. State laws and regulations may limit our ability to offer educational programs and award degrees. Some states may also prescribe financial regulations that are different from those of the Department of Education. Capella University is required to post surety bonds in several states. If we fail to comply with state licensing or authorization requirements, we may be subject to the loss of state licensure or authorization. Although we believe that the only state licensure or authorization that is necessary for Capella University to participate in Title IV programs is our registration with the Minnesota Office of Higher Education, loss of licensure or authorization to operate in other states could prohibit us from recruiting or enrolling learners in those and other states, reduce significantly our enrollments and revenues and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The inability of our graduates to obtain licensure in their chosen professional fields of study could reduce our enrollments and revenues, and potentially lead to litigation that could be costly to us. Certain of our graduates seek professional licensure in their chosen fields following graduation. Their success in obtaining licensure depends on several factors, including the individual merits of the learner, but also 30 Table of Contents may depend on whether the institution and the program were approved by the state or by a professional association, whether the program from which the learner graduated meets all state requirements and whether the institution is accredited. Certain states have refused to license learners who graduate from programs that do not meet specific types of accreditation, residency or other state requirements. Specifically, certain states have refused to license learners from particular Capella University programs due to the fact that the program did not meet one or more of the state’s specific licensure requirements or were not approved by the state for purposes of professional licensure. We have had to respond to claims brought against us by former learners as a result of such refusal. Certain states have denied our graduates professional licensure because the Capella University program from which they graduated did not have a sufficient number of residency hours, did not include a state-approved clinical program, did not satisfy state coursework requirements, or was not accredited by a specific third party (such as the American Psychological Association). The state requirements for licensure are subject to change, and we may not immediately become aware of changes that may impact our learners in certain states. In the event that one or more states refuses to recognize our learners for professional licensure in the future based on factors relating to our institution or programs, the potential growth of our programs would be negatively impacted, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, we could be exposed to litigation that would force us to incur legal and other expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may lose eligibility to participate in Title IV programs if the percentage of our revenue derived from those programs is too high, which would significantly reduce our learner population. Under a provision o f the Higher Education Act commonly referred to as the “90/10 Rule,” as revised by the August 2008 reauthorization of the Higher Education Act, a for-profit institution loses its eligibility to participate in Title IV programs if, on a cash accounting basis, it derives more than 90% of its revenue, as defined by the Higher Education Act and Department of Education Regulations, from Title IV programs in two consecutive fiscal years. An institution that violates this 90/10 Rule for two consecutive fiscal years becomes ineligible to participate in Title IV programs for a period of not less than two institutional fiscal years. An institution that derived more than 90% of its revenue from Title IV programs for any single fiscal year will be placed on provisional certification and will be subject to possible additional sanctions by the Department of Education. If an institution violated the 90/10 Rule and became ineligible to participate in Title IV programs but continued to disburse Title IV program funds, the Department of Education would require the institution to repay all Title IV program funds received by the institution after the effective date of the loss of eligibility. In 2008, under the regulatory formula prescribed by the Department of Education, we derived approximately 75% of our revenues (calculated on a cash basis) from Title IV programs. Recent changes in federal law that increased Title IV grant and loan limits, and any additional increases in the future, may result in an increase in the revenues we receive from the Title IV programs, which could make it more difficult for us to satisfy the “90/10 Rule.” In addition, economic downturns that adversely affect our learners’ employment circumstances could also increase their reliance on Title IV programs. If we lose our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs because more than 90% of our revenues are derived from Title IV program funds in any year, our learners would no longer be eligible to receive Title IV program funds under various government-sponsored financial aid programs, which would significantly reduce our enrollments and revenues and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to Our Business Our financial performance depends in part on our ability to update and expand the content of existing programs and develop new programs and specializations on a timely basis and in a cost-effective manner. The updates and expansions of our existing programs and the development of new programs and specializations may not be accepted by existing or prospective learners or the employers of our graduates. If we cannot respond to changes in market requirements, our business may be adversely affected. Even if we are able 31 Table of Contents to develop acceptable new programs, we may not be able to introduce these new programs as quickly as learners require or as quickly as our competitors introduce competing programs. In addition, we may be unable to obtain specialized accreditations or licensures that may make certain programs desirable to learners. To offer a new academic program, we may be required to obtain appropriate federal, state and accrediting agency approvals, which may be conditioned or delayed in a manner that could significantly affect our growth plans. In addition, to be eligible for federal student financial aid programs, a new academic program may need to be certified by the Department of Education. If we are unable to respond adequately to changes in market requirements due to regulatory or financial constraints, rapid technological changes or other factors, our ability to attract and retain learners could be impaired, the rates at which our graduates obtain jobs involving their fields of study could suffer, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. Establishing new academic programs or modifying existing programs requires us to make investments in management and capital expenditures, incur marketing expenses and reallocate other resources. We may have limited experience with the courses in new areas and may need to modify our systems and strategy or enter into arrangements with other educational institutions to provide new programs effectively and profitably. If we are unable to increase the number of learners, or offer new programs in a cost-effective manner, or are otherwise unable to manage effectively the operations of newly established academic programs, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our financial performance depends on our ability to continue to develop awareness among, and attract and retain, working adult learners. Building awareness of Capella University and the programs we offer among working adult learners is critical to our ability to attract prospective learners. If we are unable to successfully market and advertise our educational programs, Capella University’s ability to attract and enroll prospective learners in such programs could be adversely affected, and consequently, our ability to increase revenue or maintain profitability could be impaired. It is also critical to our success that we convert these prospective learners to enrolled learners in a cost-effective manner and that these enrolled learners remain active in our programs. Some of the factors that could prevent us from successfully enrolling and retaining learners in our programs include: • the emergence of more successful competitors; • factors related to our marketing, including the costs of Internet advertising and broad-based branding campaigns; • performance problems with our online systems; • failure to maintain accreditation; • learner dissatisfaction with our services and programs, including with our customer service and responsiveness; • adverse publicity regarding us, our competitors or online or for-profit education generally; • price reductions by competitors that we are unwilling or unable to match; • a decline in the acceptance of online education or our degree offerings by learners or current and prospective employers; • increased regulation of online education, including in states in which we do not have a physical presence; • a decrease in the perceived or actual economic benefits that learners derive from our programs; and • litigation or regulatory investigations that may damage our reputation. If we are unable to continue to develop awareness of Capella University and the programs we offer, and to enroll and retain learners, our enrollments would suffer and our ability to increase revenues and maintain profitability would be significantly impaired. 32 Table of Contents Strong competition in the postsecondary education market, especially in the online education market, could decrease our market share, increase our cost of acquiring learners and put downward pressure on our tuition rates. Postsecondary education, especially in the online market, is highly competitive. We compete with traditional public and private two-year and four-year colleges and other for-profit schools, as well as corporate universities and software companies providing online education and training software. Each of these competitors may offer programs similar to ours at lower tuition levels as a result of government subsidies, government and foundation grants, tax-deductible contributions and other financial sources not available to for-profit institutions. In addition, some of our competitors, including both traditional colleges and universities and other for-profit schools, have substantially greater name recognition and financial and other resources than we have, which may enable them to compete more effectively for potential learners and decrease our market share. It is also possible that some of our competitors may develop platforms or other technologies that are superior to the platform and technology we use and we may not have the resources necessary to acquire or compete with these technologies. We also expect to face increased competition as a result of new entrants to the online education market, including established colleges and universities that had not previously offered online education programs. Moreover, one or more of our competitors may obtain specialized accreditations that improve their competitive positions against us. We may not be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors and may face competitive pressures that could adversely affect our business or results of operations. For example, as the market continues to mature, certain of our competitors have begun to reduce tuition rates. We may therefore be required to reduce our tuition or increase spending in response to competition to retain or attract learners or pursue new market opportunities. We may also face increased competition in maintaining and developing new marketing relationships with corporations, particularly as corporations become more selective as to which online universities they will encourage their current employees to attend and from which online universities they will hire prospective employees. These competitive factors could cause our enrollments, revenues and profitability to significantly decrease. System disruptions and vulnerability from security risks to our online computer networks could impact our ability to generate revenue and damage the reputation of Capella University, limiting our ability to attract and retain learners. The performance and reliability of our technology infrastructure is critical to our reputation and ability to attract and retain learners. Any system error or failure, or a sudden and significant increase in bandwidth usage, could result in the unavailability of our courseroom platform, damaging our ability to generate revenue. Our technology infrastructure could be vulnerable to interruption or malfunction due to events beyond our control, including natural disasters, terrorist activities and telecommunications failures. We currently use the Blackboard Learning System courseroom platform and Oracle’s PeopleSoft enterprise resource planning system. We may experience interruptions or failures in our computer systems as a result of ongoing maintenance of and enhancements to our enterprise resource planning system, courseroom platform, and/or server system. Any interruption to our technology infrastructure could have a material adverse effect on our ability to attract and retain learners and could require us to incur additional expenses to correct or mitigate the interruption. Our computer networks may also be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer hackers, computer viruses and other security problems and system disruptions. We engage with multiple security assessment providers on a periodic basis to review and assess our security. We utilize this information to audit ourselves to ensure that we are continually monitoring the security of our technology infrastructure, but it may still be vulnerable to threats. A user who circumvents security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in operations. As a result, we may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of these security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 33 Table of Contents A failure of our information systems to properly store, process and report relevant data may reduce our management’s effectiveness, interfere with our regulatory compliance and increase our operating expenses. We are heavily dependent on the integrity of our data management systems. If these systems do not effectively collect, store, process and report relevant data for the operation of our business, whether due to equipment malfunction or constraints, software deficiencies, or human error, our ability to effectively plan, forecast and execute our business plan and comply with applicable laws and regulations, including the Higher Education Act and the regulations thereunder, will be impaired, perhaps materially. Any such impairment could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The personal information that we collect may be vulnerable to breach, theft or loss that could adversely affect our reputation and operations. Possession and use of personal information in our operations subjects us to risks and costs that could harm our business. Capella University collects, uses and retains large amounts of personal information regarding our learners and their families, including social security numbers, tax return information, personal and family financial data and credit card numbers. We also collect and maintain personal information of our employees in the ordinary course of our business. Some of this personal information is held and managed by certain of our vendors. Although we use security and business controls to limit access and use of personal information, a third party may be able to circumvent those security and business controls, which could result in a breach of student or employee privacy. In addition, errors in the storage, use or transmission of personal information could result in a breach of student or employee privacy. Possession and use of personal information in our operations also subjects us to legislative and regulatory burdens that could require notification of data breaches and restrict our use of personal information. We cannot assure you that a breach, loss or theft of personal information will not occur. A breach, theft or loss of personal information regarding our learners and their families or our employees that is held by us or our vendors could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and results of operations and result in liability under state and federal privacy statutes and legal actions by state attorneys, general and private litigants, and any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If the proportion of our students who are enrolled in our bachelor’s degree programs continues to increase, we may experience increased cost and reduced margins. Our bachelor’s degree programs are currently growing at a faster rate than our doctoral or master’s degree programs. This bachelor’s degree growth has caused the proportion of our learners enrolled in bachelor’s degree programs to increase, while the proportion enrolled in our doctoral programs has decreased. This mix shift may continue in the future, and we may experience certain negative consequences, such as decreased revenue per learner, higher cost per new enrollment, lower retention rates and/or higher student services costs, higher default rates, an increase in the percentage of our revenue derived from Title IV funding under the 90/10 Rules, more limited ability to implement tuition price increases and other effects that may adversely affect our operating results. We may experience declines in our revenue and enrollment growth rates, and we may not be able to maintain current operating margin improvements. We have experienced significant growth since we established our university in 1993. However, while we have continued to achieve growth in revenues and enrollment year-over-year, these growth rates have declined in some recent periods and may continue to decline in the future. In addition, if we are not able to achieve growth in revenues and enrollment, we may not be able to maintain current operating margin improvements. Specifically, we expect additional competitors to enter the online educational market and increased competition for online education offerings, including from colleges and universities that provide blended educational programs involving both classroom and online components. 34 Table of Contents We rely on exclusive proprietary rights and intellectual property that may not be adequately protected under current laws, and we encounter disputes from time to time relating to our use of intellectual property of third parties. Our success depends in part on our ability to protect our proprietary rights. We rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secrets, domain names and agreements to protect our proprietary rights. We rely on service mark and trademark protection in the United States and select foreign jurisdictions to protect our rights to the marks “CAPELLA,” “CAPELLA EDUCATION COMPANY,” and “CAPELLA UNIVERSITY,” as well as distinctive logos and other marks associated with our services. We rely on agreements under which we obtain rights to use course content developed by faculty members and other third-party content experts. We cannot assure you that these measures will be adequate, that we have secured, or will be able to secure, appropriate protections for all of our proprietary rights in the United States or select foreign jurisdictions, or that third parties will not infringe upon or violate our proprietary rights. Despite our efforts to protect these rights, unauthorized third parties may attempt to duplicate or copy the proprietary aspects of our curricula, online resource material and other content. Our management’s attention may be diverted by these attempts and we may need to use funds in litigation to protect our proprietary rights against any infringement or violation. We may encounter disputes from time to time over rights and obligations concerning intellectual property, and we may not prevail in these disputes. In certain instances, we may not have obtained sufficient rights in the content of a course. Third parties may raise a claim against us alleging an infringement or violation of the intellectual property of that third party. Some third party intellectual property rights may be extremely broad, and it may not be possible for us to conduct our operations in such a way as to avoid those intellectual property rights. Any such intellectual property claim could subject us to costly litigation and impose a significant strain on our financial resources and management personnel regardless of whether such claim has merit. Our general liability and cyber liability insurance may not cover potential claims of this type adequately or at all, and we may be required to alter the content of our classes or pay monetary damages or license fees to third parties, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may incur liability for the unauthorized duplication or distribution of class materials posted online for class discussions. In some instances, our faculty members or our learners may post various articles or other third-party content on class discussion boards. We may incur liability for the unauthorized duplication or distribution of this material posted online for class discussions. Third parties may raise claims against us for the unauthorized duplication of this material. Any such claims could subject us to costly litigation and impose a significant strain on our financial resources and management personnel regardless of whether the claims have merit. Our general liability insurance may not cover potential claims of this type adequately or at all, and we may be required to alter the content of our courses or pay monetary damages, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A reclassification of our adjunct faculty may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Adjunct faculty comprised approximately 84% of our faculty population at December 31, 2008. We classify our adjunct faculty as independent contractors, as opposed to employees. Because we classify our adjunct faculty as independent contractors, with respect to these individuals we do not withhold federal or state income or other employment-related taxes, make federal or state unemployment tax or Federal Insurance Contributions Act, or FICA, payments, provide workers’ compensation insurance or provide certain benefits available to our employees. The determination of whether adjunct faculty members are properly classified as independent contractors or as employees is based upon the facts and circumstances of our relationship with our adjunct faculty members. Federal or state authorities or current or former adjunct faculty members may challenge our classification as incorrect and assert that our adjunct faculty members must be classified as employees. During 2008, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) commenced an employment tax audit of Capella University. As part of 35 Table of Contents that audit, the IRS has requested information about our adjunct faculty. During 2008, the IRS issued determination letters to two former adjunct faculty members determining that they were employees, rather than independent contractors. While these determinations were fact specific and did not require us to take further action, it is possible that the IRS could challenge our adjunct faculty classification as part of the employment tax audit. In the event that we were to reclassify our adjunct faculty as employees, we would be required to withhold the appropriate taxes, make unemployment tax and FICA payments and pay for workers’ compensation insurance and additional payroll processing costs. If we had reclassified our adjunct faculty members as employees for 2008, we estimate our additional tax, workers’ compensation insurance and payroll processing payments would have been approximately $2.5 million. The amount of additional tax and insurance payments would increase in the future as the total amount we pay to adjunct faculty increases. In addition to these known costs, we could be subject to retroactive taxes and penalties, which may be significant, by federal and state authorities, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In the event that we were to reclassify our adjunct faculty as employees, we could also be required to permit these individuals to participate in certain of our employee benefit plans, perhaps retroactively. Legislation pending before Congress may make it easier and more desirable for employees to form unions, which may increase our costs. The Employee Free Choice Act is currently pending before Congress. If passed into law, this Act would make it easier for employees to organize unions and force companies to submit to binding arbitration for first contracts with newly formed unions. In addition, penalties for firing union backers would be significantly increased. Any efforts by our employees or faculty to form a union, whether or not successful, could increase our costs, which could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have recently named a new Chief Executive Officer, and any challenges during this transition may adversely impact our organization. Our success to date has depended, and will continue to depend, largely on the skills, efforts and motivation of our executive officers. Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Stephen Shank, has been our Chief Executive Officer since he founded Capella in 1991. We have announced that J. Kevin Gilligan will succeed Mr. Shank as CEO in early March 2009. Transitioning leadership of our company from the founder to a new CEO may cause strategic or operational challenges for our organization, the impact of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our learner population and revenues could decrease if the government tuition assistance offered to U.S. Armed Forces personnel is reduced or eliminated, if the tuition discounts which we offer to U.S. Armed Forces personnel are reduced or eliminated, or if our informal arrangements with any military bases deteriorate. Active duty members of the U.S. Armed Forces are eligible to receive tuition assistance from the government, which they may use to pursue postsecondary degrees. We offer tuition discounts generally ranging from 10% to 15% to all members of the U.S. Armed Forces and immediate family members of active duty U.S. Armed Forces personnel. During 2008, we provided approximately $4.9 million of such discounts. We also have non-exclusive agreements with various educational institutions of the U.S. Armed Forces pursuant to which we have agreed to accept credits toward a Capella University degree from certain military educational programs. These agreements generally may be terminated by either party upon 30 to 45 days’ notice. Additionally, we have informal arrangements with several military bases pursuant to which the bases make information about Capella University available to interested service members. Each of these informal arrangements is not binding on either party and either party could end the arrangement at any time. If our informal arrangement with any military base 36 Table of Contents deteriorates or ends, our efforts to recruit learners from that base will be impaired. In the event that governmental tuition assistance programs to active duty members of the U.S. Armed Forces are reduced or eliminated, if our tuition discount program which we offer U.S. Armed Forces personnel and their immediate family members is reduced or eliminated, or if our informal arrangements with any military base deteriorates, this could materially and adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. If we do not maintain existing, and develop additional, relationships with employers, our future growth may be impaired. We currently have relationships with large employers to provide their employees with the opportunity to obtain degrees through us while continuing their employment. These relationships are an important part of our strategy as they provide us with a steady source of potential working adult learners for particular programs and also serve to increase our reputation among high-profile employers. If we are unable to develop new relationships, or if our existing relationships deteriorate or end, our efforts to seek these sources of potential working adult learners will be impaired, and this could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business may be adversely affected by a general economic slowdown or recession in the U.S. or abroad. The U.S. economy and the economies of other key industrialized countries currently are characterized by reduced economic activity, increased unemployment and substantial uncertainty about their financial services markets. The U.S. economy is in a recession and other key economies either are in or may be heading toward recession. In addition, homeowners in the U.S. have experienced an unprecedented reduction in wealth due to the decline in residential real estate values across much of the country. These events, particularly unemployment and residential real estate financing challenges, may reduce the number of courses taken simultaneously by each of our learners or otherwise reduce the demand for our programs and colloquia among learners, including among learners who receive financial aid and determine they are unwilling to incur additional debt during current economic conditions, regardless of financial aid availability. Further, these events may reduce the willingness of employers to sponsor educational opportunities for their employees. Any of these events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, these events could adversely affect the ability or willingness of our former learners to repay student loans, which could increase our student loan cohort default rate and require increased time, attention and resources to manage these defaults. An increase in interest rates or other decrease in loan availability could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain learners. Approximately 75% of our revenues (calculated on a cash basis) for the year ended December 31, 2008, were derived from Title IV programs, which involve subsidized student borrowing. Additionally, some of our learners finance a portion of their education through private, unsubsidized borrowing. In addition, in the event Congress decreases the amount available for federal student aid, our learners may have to pay higher, unsubsidized interest rates. Any future increase in interest rates or other decrease in loan availability (whether as a result of government action or credit market conditions) will result in a corresponding increase in educational costs to our existing and prospective learners, which could result in a significant reduction in our learner population and revenues. Disruptions in FFELP or other changes in the federal student lending environment could restrict or limit our learners’ access to federal student loans, thereby materially impacting our enrollment and revenue. The Title IV federal financial aid received by our learners is administered through the Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP), which enables private sector lenders to make federally guaranteed student loans. In response to both Congressional subsidy cuts and instability in the credit markets, a certain number of FFELP lenders have recently either withdrawn from the program or limited the borrowers to whom they will make student loans. Some of the lenders who have withdrawn from or limited access to FFELP loans had 37 Table of Contents previously made loans to certain of our learners. To date, our learners have been able to continue to access FFELP loans through other program participants; however, there is no assurance that they will be able to continue to do so if additional disruptions occur in FFELP or other federal student lending options, such as the Federal Direct Lending Program (FDLP). If our learners are unable to utilize FFELP or FDLP loans, either through lack of accessibility, system overload or disruptions, or prohibitive cost increases, our enrollment and revenue would be materially reduced. The significant uncertainty about the asset portfolios of companies in both the U.S. and worldwide financial services sector, dramatic volatility in trading markets and recent failures and near failures of financial institutions may adversely impact our investment portfolio and investment returns. The recent failures, bankruptcies, rescues and distressed acquisitions of previously highly rated financial institutions such as Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae), Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (Freddie Mac), American International Group, Inc., Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., The Bear Stearns Companies Inc., Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc., Washington Mutual Savings Bank and Wachovia Corporation, indicate a possibly dramatic realignment of companies in the financial services sector and reflect the market’s lack of a clear understanding of the financial health of financial institutions. Many widely-held investments previously rated investment grade have declined in value precipitously and unexpectedly within the past year, resulting in substantial trading and investment losses for corporate and other investors. To avoid these risks, investors have favored securities issued or guaranteed by the U.S. government, which has resulted in reduced yields on these and other investments considered to be lower risk. Although we generally employ a conservative investment strategy, we may incur investment losses as a result of these unusual and unpredictable market developments and we may experience reduced investment earnings if the yields on investments deemed to be low risk remain low or decline further in this time of economic uncertainty. In addition, these unusual and unpredictable market developments may also create liquidity challenges for certain of the assets in our investment portfolio. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 