Item 1A. Risk Factors, including under the headings "Our future success depends on our ability to replace reserves that our operators produce" and "Our revolving credit agreement contains operating and financial restrictions that may restrict our business and financing activities." 55 Table of Contents If the existing commodity price environment persists and prices remain lower-for-longer, we plan to continue development within available cash flows as sufficient liquidity allows. To provide information regarding the sensitivity of our revenues to changes in production volumes and sales prices, presented below is a table that estimates the reduction in our oil and gas sales (before the impact of derivative instruments) under two different production scenarios and assuming our 2015 average sales prices are reduced by 10%, 20% and 30%, respectively. Reduction in Oil and Gas Sales Assuming a % Decline in Average Sales Price(2) 10% 20% 30% (in millions) Base Production(1) $ (20.3 ) $ (40.5 ) $ (60.8 ) Base Production Down 10% (38.5 ) (56.7 ) (75.0 ) _______________ (1) Base production is actual net production in 2015. (2) Average 2015 sales prices (excluding the effect of settled derivatives) were $37.77 per Bbl of oil and $1.60 per Mcf of natural gas. During 2015, we lowered our capital spending by 76% in response to the low commodity price environment. During the second half of 2015, our cash flow exceeded capital expenditures and these excess cash flows were used to reduce outstanding borrowings under our credit facility by $38 million. While lower commodity prices will likely reduce our future borrowing capacity (with $400 million of borrowing availability at December 31, 2015), with over 87% of the PV-10 value of our total proved reserves supported by producing wells, we believe we will have sufficient cash flows and adequate liquidity to fund our development plan. Our recent capital commitments have been to fund drilling in the Williston Basin and, to a lesser extent, fund acreage acquisitions. Our strategy is to continue to (1) maintain adequate liquidity and selectively participate in new drilling and completion activities, subject to economic and industry conditions and (2) pursue acquisition and disposition opportunities as available liquidity permits. We expect to fund our near term capital requirements and working capital needs with cash flows from operations and available borrowing capacity under our Revolving Credit Facility. Our capital expenditures could be further curtailed if our cash flows decline from expected levels. Because production from existing oil and natural gas wells declines over time, further reductions of capital expenditures used to drill and complete new oil and natural gas wells would likely result in lower levels of oil and natural gas production in the future. Working Capital Our working capital balance fluctuates as a result of changes in commodity pricing and production volumes, collection of receivables, expenditures related to our development and production operations and the impact of our outstanding derivative instruments. Absent any significant effects from our commodity derivative instruments, we generally maintain low cash and cash equivalent balances because we use cash from operations to fund our development activities and reduce our bank debt. At December 31, 2015, we had a working capital surplus of $50.7 million, compared to a deficit of $59.7 million at December 31, 2014. Current assets decreased by $97.2 million and current liabilities decreased by $207.6 million at December 31, 2015, compared to December 31, 2014. The decrease in current assets is primarily due to lower cash, accounts receivable and derivative instrument balances in 2015. The reduction in accounts receivable was caused by lower commodity prices received on our production and the reduction in the balance of derivative instruments is due to hedging settlements. The change in current liabilities is primarily due to a decrease of $166.2 million in accounts payable primarily as a result of a reduction in accrued capital expenditures in conjunction with a decrease in the number of drilling rigs operating on our properties. Cash Flows Cash flows from operations are primarily affected by production volumes and commodity prices, net of the effects of settlements of our derivatives. Our cash flows from operations also are impacted by changes in working capital. We generally maintain low cash and cash equivalent balances because we use available funds to fund our development activities or reduce our bank debt. Short-term liquidity needs are satisfied by borrowings under our revolving credit facility. Any payments due to counterparties under our derivative contracts are funded by proceeds received from the sale of our production. Production receipts, however, lag payments to the counterparties. Any interim cash needs are funded by cash from operations or borrowings under the revolving credit facility. As of December 31, 2015, we had entered into derivative agreements covering 1.8 million barrels for 2016 at an average price of $77.50 per barrel. For additional information on the impact of changing prices on our financial position, see "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk." 56 Table of Contents Our cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 are presented below: Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 (in thousands) Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities $ 247,016 $ 274,257 $ 222,774 Net Cash Used in Investing Activities (288,936 ) (477,040 ) (358,536 ) Net Cash Provided by Financing Activities 35,973 206,433 128,061 Net Change in Cash $ (5,947 ) $ 3,650 $ (7,701 ) Cash flows provided by operating activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $247.0 million, $274.3 million and $222.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The decline in 2015 net cash provided by operations was caused by lower oil prices, which was partially offset by cash flow from our derivative settlements. The increase in cash provided by operating activities in 2014 as compared to 2013 was primarily the result of a 29% increase in oil and natural gas production that drove an oil and gas sales increase of 17%. Cash flows used in investing activities We had cash flows used in investing activities of $288.9 million, $477.0 million and $358.5 million during the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, primarily as a result of our capital expenditures for drilling, development and acquisition costs. The decrease in cash used in investing activities in 2015 as compared to 2014 was attributable to a decrease in oil and gas spending in light of the lower commodity price environment in 2015. Oil and gas expenditure cash spending decreased from $476.9 million in 2014 to $289.1 million in 2015 as we reduced our development activities. In 2015, we added 18.6 net wells to production as compared to 41.6 net wells in 2014. Oil and gas expenditure cash spending increased from $360.1 million in 2013 to $476.9 million in 2014, a 32% increase driven by increases in our year-end inventory of wells drilling and awaiting completion and wells added to production in 2014 as compared to 2013. In 2014, our net producing well additions totaled 41.6 as compared to 40.0 in 2013. Our cash flows used in investing activities reflects actual cash spending, which can lag several months from when the related costs were incurred. As a result, our actual cash spending is not always reflective of current levels of development activity. For instance, during the year ended December 31, 2015, our capitalized costs incurred for oil and natural gas properties (e.g. drilling and completion costs and other capital expenditures) amounted to $128.7 million, while the actual cash spend in this regard amounted to $289.1 million. Our cash spend for development and acquisition activities for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 are summarized in the following table: Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 (in millions) Drilling and Completion Costs $ 279.2 $ 421.6 $ 315.8 Acreage and Other Related Activities 7.4 49.7 38.5 Other Capital Expenditures 2.5 5.6 5.8 Total $ 289.1 $ 476.9 $ 360.1 Development and acquisition activities are highly discretionary. We monitor our capital expenditures on a regular basis, adjusting the amount up or down, and between projects, depending on projected commodity prices, cash flows and returns. 57 Table of Contents Cash flows provided by financing activities Net cash provided by financing activities was $36.0 million, $206.4 million and $128.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. For all three years, cash sourced through financing activities was primarily provided from the issuance of senior unsecured notes and/or advances under our Revolving Credit Facility. The decrease in cash provided by financing activities for 2015 as compared to 2014 was attributable to a $200 million Notes issuance in May 2015, which was partially offset by $5.7 million in debt issuance costs and net repayments of $148.0 million under the Revolving Credit Facility for the year ended December 31, 2015. The increase in cash provided by financing activities for 2014 as compared to 2013 was attributable to higher advances under our Revolving Credit Facility, which was partially offset by our senior unsecured note issuance in 2013. Additionally, during 2014 we repurchased 1,153,885 shares of our common stock at a cost of approximately $15.5 million and added $223 million of net borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility. During 2013, net cash provided by financing activities was primarily attributable to $210.5 million from the issuance of senior unsecured notes. Additionally, during 2013 we repurchased 2,036,383 shares of our common stock at a cost of approximately $26.1 million and repaid $49 million of net borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility with proceeds from the issuance of senior unsecured notes. Our long term debt at December 31, 2015 was $847.8 million, which was comprised of $697.8 million in senior unsecured notes and $150 million of borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility. At December 31, 2015 we had $400 million of available borrowing capacity under our Revolving Credit Facility. Revolving Credit Facility In February 2012, we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement providing for our Revolving Credit Facility, which replaced our previous revolving credit facility with a syndicated facility. Our bank group is comprised of a group of commercial banks, with no single bank holding more than 12% of the total facility. The Revolving Credit Facility, which is secured by substantially all of our assets, provides for a commitment equal to the lesser of the facility amount or the borrowing base. At December 31, 2015, we had $150 million of borrowings on the Revolving Credit Facility with $400 million of borrowing availability. In October 2015, our borrowing base was reaffirmed at $550 million. The Revolving Credit Facility matures on September 30, 2018 and provides for a borrowing base subject to redetermination semi-annually each April and October and for event-driven unscheduled redeterminations. Borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility can either be at the Alternate Base Rate (as defined in the credit agreement) plus a spread ranging from 0.5% to 1.5% or LIBOR borrowings at the Adjusted LIBOR Rate (as defined in the credit agreement) plus a spread ranging from 1.5% to 2.5%. The applicable spread at any time is dependent upon the amount of borrowings relative to the borrowing base at such time. We may elect, from time to time, to convert all or any part of our LIBOR loans to base rate loans or to convert all or any of the base rate loans to LIBOR loans. A commitment fee is paid on the undrawn balance based on an annual rate of either 0.375% or 0.50%. At December 31, 2015, the commitment fee was 0.375% and the interest rate margin was 1.75% on LIBOR loans and 0.75% on base rate loans. The Revolving Credit Facility contains negative covenants that limit our ability, among other things, to pay any cash dividends, incur additional indebtedness, sell assets, enter into certain hedging contracts, change the nature of our business or operations, merge, consolidate, or make investments. In addition, we are required to maintain a current ratio (as defined in the credit agreement) of no less than 1.0 to 1.0, a ratio of secured debt to EBITDAX (as defined in the credit agreement) of no greater than 2.5 to 1.0 and a ratio of EBITDAX (as defined in the credit agreement) to interest expense (as defined in the credit agreement) of no less than 2.5 to 1.0. We were in compliance with our financial covenants under the Revolving Credit Facility at December 31, 2015. All of our obligations under the Revolving Credit Facility are secured by a first priority security interest in any and all of our assets. 58 Table of Contents 8.000% Senior Notes due 2020 On May 18, 2012, we issued at par value $300 million aggregate principal amount of 8.000% senior unsecured notes due June 1, 2020 (the "Original Notes"). On May 13, 2013, we issued at a price of 105.25% of par an additional $200 million aggregate principal amount of 8.000% senior unsecured notes due June 1, 2020 (the "2013 Follow-on Notes"). On May 18, 2015, we issued at a price of 95.000% of par an additional $200 million aggregate principal amount of 8.000% senior unsecured notes due June 1, 2020 (the "2015 Mirror Notes" and, together with the Original Notes and the 2013 Follow-on Notes, the "Notes"). Interest is payable on the Notes semi-annually in arrears on each June 1 and December 1. The issuance of the Original Notes resulted in net proceeds to us of approximately $291.2 million, the issuance of the 2013 Follow-on Notes resulted in net proceeds to us of approximately $200.1 million, and the issuance of the 2015 Mirror Notes resulted in net proceeds to us of approximately $185.0 million. Collectively, the net proceeds are in use to fund our exploration, development and acquisition program and for general corporate purposes (including repayment of borrowings that were outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility at the time the Notes were issued). Prior to June 1, 2016, we may redeem some or all of the Notes for cash at a redemption price equal to 100% of their principal amount plus an applicable make-whole premium and accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date. On and after June 1, 2016, we may redeem some or all of the Notes at redemption prices (expressed as percentages of principal amount) equal to 104% for the twelve-month period beginning on June 1, 2016, 102% for the twelve-month period beginning June 1, 2017 and 100% beginning on June 1, 2018, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date. The Original Notes and the 2013 Follow-on Notes are governed by an Indenture, dated as of May 18, 2012, by and among the Company and Wilmington Trust, National Association (the "Original Indenture"). The 2015 Mirror Notes are governed by an Indenture, dated as of May 18, 2015, by and among the Company and Wilmington Trust, National Association (the "Mirror Indenture"). The terms and conditions of the Mirror Indenture conform, in all material respects, to the terms and conditions set forth in the Original Indenture. As such, the Mirror Indenture, together with the Original Indenture, are referred to herein as the "Indenture". The Indenture restricts our ability to: (i) incur additional debt or enter into sale and leaseback transactions; (ii) pay distributions on, redeem or repurchase, equity interests; (iii) make certain investments; (iv) incur liens; (v) enter into transactions with affiliates; (vi) merge or consolidate with another company; and (vii) transfer and sell assets. These covenants are subject to a number of important exceptions and qualifications. If at any time when the Notes are rated investment grade by both Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and Standard & Poor's Ratings Services and no Default (as defined in the Indenture) has occurred and is continuing, many of such covenants will terminate and we and our subsidiaries (if any) will cease to be subject to such covenants. The Indenture contains customary events of default, including: · default in any payment of interest on any Note when due, continued for 30 days; · default in the payment of principal of or premium, if any, on any Note when due; · failure by us to comply with our other obligations under the Indenture, in certain cases subject to notice and grace periods; · payment defaults and accelerations with respect to our other indebtedness and certain of our subsidiaries, if any, in the aggregate principal amount of $25 million or more; · certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization of our company or a significant subsidiary or group of restricted subsidiaries that, taken together, would constitute a significant subsidiary; · failure by us or any significant subsidiary or group of restricted subsidiaries that, taken together, would constitute a significant subsidiary to pay certain final judgments aggregating in excess of $25 million within 60 days; and · any guarantee of the Notes by a guarantor ceases to be in full force and effect, is declared null and void in a judicial proceeding or is denied or disaffirmed by its maker. 59 Table of Contents 2016 Capital Expenditure Budget Our board of directors has approved a capital expenditure budget of up to $99.8 million for calendar year 2016. However, the amount, timing and allocation of capital expenditures are largely discretionary and subject to change based on a variety of factors. If oil, NGL and natural gas prices decline below our acceptable levels, or costs increase above our acceptable levels, we may choose to defer a portion of our budgeted capital expenditures until later periods to achieve the desired balance between sources and uses of liquidity and prioritize capital projects that we believe have the highest expected returns and potential to generate near-term cash flow. Subject to financing alternatives, we may also increase our capital expenditures significantly to take advantage of opportunities we consider to be attractive. We will carefully monitor and may adjust our projected capital expenditures in response to success or lack of success in drilling activities, changes in prices, availability of financing and joint venture opportunities, drilling and acquisition costs, industry conditions, the timing of regulatory approvals, the availability of rigs, reduction of service costs, contractual obligations, internally generated cash flow and other factors both within and outside our control. For additional information on the impact of changing prices on our financial position, see "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk." Capital Requirements Our primary needs for cash are for exploration, development and acquisition of oil and natural gas properties and payment of interest on outstanding indebtedness. During 2015, our development and other capitalized expenditures included approximately $116.3 million of drilling, completion and capitalized workover costs, $0.4 million related to asset retirement obligations, $2.7 million of capitalized internal costs and $1.5 million of capitalized interest. Also in 2015, approximately $7.8 million was expended on acreage and other expenditures in the Williston Basin. Our 2015 capital program was funded by cash on hand, net cash flow from operations and borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility and the Notes. Our capital expenditure budget for 2016 is discussed above under the heading "2016 Capital Expenditure Budget." Development and acreage activities are highly discretionary, and, for the near term, we expect such activities to be maintained at levels we can fund through internal cash flow and borrowing under our Revolving Credit Facility. To the extent capital requirements exceed internal cash flow and borrowing capacity under our Revolving Credit Facility, additional financings from the capital markets may be pursued to fund these requirements. We monitor our capital expenditures on a regular basis, adjusting the amount up or down and also between our projects, depending on commodity prices, cash flow and projected returns. Also, our obligations may change due to acquisitions, divestitures and continued growth. Our future success in growing proved reserves and production may be dependent on our ability to access outside sources of capital. If internally generated cash flow and borrowing capacity is not available under our Revolving Credit Facility, we may issue additional shares of stock, subordinated notes or other debt securities to fund capital expenditures, acquisitions, extend maturities or to repay debt. Satisfaction of Our Cash Obligations for the Next 12 Months With our Revolving Credit Facility and our cash flows from operations, we believe we will have sufficient capital to meet our drilling commitments and expected general and administrative expenses for the next twelve months. Nonetheless, any strategic acquisition of assets or increase in drilling activity may require us to seek additional capital. We may also choose to seek additional capital rather than utilize our credit facility or other debt instruments to fund accelerated or continued drilling at the discretion of management and depending on prevailing market conditions. We will evaluate any potential opportunities for acquisitions as they arise. However, there can be no assurance that any additional capital will be available to us on favorable terms or at all. Over the next 24 months it is possible that our existing capital, our Revolving Credit Facility and anticipated funds from operations may not be sufficient to sustain continued acreage acquisitions and drilling activities. Consequently, we may seek additional capital in the future to fund growth and expansion through additional debt or equity financing or credit facilities. No assurance can be made that such financing would be available, and if available it may take either the form of debt or equity. In either case, the financing could have a negative impact on our financial condition and our shareholders. 60 Table of Contents Effects of Inflation and Pricing The oil and natural gas industry is very cyclical and the demand for goods and services of oil field companies, suppliers and others associated with the industry put extreme pressure on the economic stability and pricing structure within the industry. Typically, as prices for oil and natural gas increase, so do all associated costs. Conversely, in a period of declining prices, associated cost declines are likely to lag and may not adjust downward in proportion. Material changes in prices also impact our current revenue stream, estimates of future reserves, borrowing base calculations of bank loans, impairment assessments of oil and natural gas properties, and values of properties in purchase and sale transactions. Material changes in prices can impact the value of oil and natural gas companies and their ability to raise capital, borrow money and retain personnel. While we do not currently expect business costs to materially increase, higher prices for oil and natural gas could result in increases in the costs of materials, services and personnel. Oil and natural gas prices decreased significantly in the fourth quarter of 2014 and have remained depressed throughout 2015 and into 2016. The lower commodity pricing has reduced service costs. If service cost pricing remains at the current levels, we do not currently expect business costs to materially increase until higher prices for oil and natural gas create increased demand for materials, services and personnel. Contractual Obligations and Commitments The following table summarizes our obligations and commitments at December 31, 2015 to make future payments under certain contracts, aggregated by category of contractual obligation, for specified time periods: Payment due by Period (in thousands) Contractual Obligations Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 years Total Office Leases(1) $ 274 $ 49 $ - $ - $ 323 Automobile Leases(2) 45 70 - - 115 Long Term Debt(3) - 150,000 700,000 - 850,000 Cash Interest Expense on Debt(4) 59,225 117,644 79,333 - 256,202 Total $ 59,544 $ 267,763 $ 779,333 $ - $ 1,106,640 (1) Office leases through 2017 (2) Automobile leases for certain executives through 2018 (3) Revolving Credit Facility and 8.000% Senior Notes due 2020 (see Note 4 to financial statements) (4) Cash interest on Revolving Credit Facility and 8.000% Senior Notes due 2020 are estimated assuming no principal repayment until the due date The above contractual obligations schedule does not include future anticipated settlement of derivative contracts or estimated amounts expected to be incurred in the future associated with the abandonment of our oil and gas properties, as we cannot determine with accuracy the amount and/or timing of such payments. Critical Accounting Policies The establishment and consistent application of accounting policies is a vital component of accurately and fairly presenting our financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP), as well as ensuring compliance with applicable laws and regulations governing financial reporting. While there are rarely alternative methods or rules from which to select in establishing accounting and financial reporting policies, proper application often involves significant judgment regarding a given set of facts and circumstances and a complex series of decisions. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements under GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Our estimates of our proved oil and natural gas reserves, future development costs, estimates relating to certain oil and natural gas revenues and expenses and fair value of derivative instruments are the most critical to our financial statements. 61 Table of Contents Oil and Natural Gas Reserves The determination of depreciation, depletion and amortization expense as well as impairments that are recognized on our oil and natural gas properties are highly dependent on the estimates of the proved oil and natural gas reserves attributable to our properties. Our estimate of proved reserves is based on the quantities of oil and natural gas which geological and engineering data demonstrate, with reasonable certainty, to be recoverable in the future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data, engineering and geological interpretation, and judgment. For example, we must estimate the amount and timing of future operating costs, production taxes and development costs, all of which may in fact vary considerably from actual results. In addition, as the prices of oil and natural gas and cost levels change from year to year, the economics of producing our reserves may change and therefore the estimate of proved reserves may also change. Approximately 10% of our proved oil and gas reserves are proved undeveloped reserves. Oil and natural gas prices have fallen significantly and remained low since the second half of 2014. An extended decline in oil and gas prices may adversely affect our ability to fund planned expenditures. Any significant variance in these assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantity and value of our reserves. The information regarding present value of the future net cash flows attributable to our proved oil and natural gas reserves are estimates only and should not be construed as the current market value of the estimated oil and natural gas reserves attributable to our properties. Such information includes revisions of certain reserve estimates attributable to our properties included in the prior year's estimates. These revisions reflect additional information from subsequent activities, production history of the properties involved and any adjustments in the projected economic life of such properties resulting from changes in oil and natural gas prices. Any future downward revisions could adversely affect our financial condition, our borrowing ability, our future prospects and the value of our common stock. The estimates of our proved oil and natural gas reserves used in the preparation of our financial statements were prepared by Ryder Scott Company, our registered independent petroleum consultants, and were prepared in accordance with the rules promulgated by the SEC. Oil and Natural Gas Properties The method of accounting we use to account for our oil and natural gas investments determines what costs are capitalized and how these costs are ultimately matched with revenues and expensed. We utilize the full cost method of accounting to account for our oil and natural gas investments instead of the successful efforts method because we believe it more accurately reflects the underlying economics of our programs to explore and develop oil and natural gas reserves. The full cost method embraces the concept that dry holes and other expenditures that fail to add reserves are intrinsic to the oil and natural gas exploration business. Thus, under the full cost method, all costs incurred in connection with the acquisition, development and exploration of oil and natural gas reserves are capitalized. These capitalized amounts include the costs of unproved properties, internal costs directly related to acquisitions, development and exploration activities, asset retirement costs, geological and geophysical costs that are directly attributable to the properties and capitalized interest. Although some of these costs will ultimately result in no additional reserves, they are part of a program from which we expect the benefits of successful wells to more than offset the costs of any unsuccessful ones. The full cost method differs from the successful efforts method of accounting for oil and natural gas investments. The primary difference between these two methods is the treatment of exploratory dry hole costs. These costs are generally expensed under the successful efforts method when it is determined that measurable reserves do not exist. Geological and geophysical costs are also expensed under the successful efforts method. Under the full cost method, both dry hole costs and geological and geophysical costs are initially capitalized and classified as unproved properties pending determination of proved reserves. If no proved reserves are discovered, these costs are then amortized with all the costs in the full cost pool. Capitalized amounts except unproved costs are depleted using the units of production method. The depletion expense per unit of production is the ratio of the sum of our unamortized historical costs and estimated future development costs to our proved reserve volumes. Estimation of hydrocarbon reserves relies on professional judgment and use of factors that cannot be precisely determined. Subsequent reserve estimates materially different from those reported would change the depletion expense recognized during the future reporting periods. For the year ended December 31, 2015, our average depletion expense per unit of production was $23.07 per Boe. A 10% decrease in our estimated net proved reserves at December 31, 2015 would result in a $1.80 per Boe increase in our 12-month per unit depletion rate. 62 Table of Contents To the extent the capitalized costs in our full cost pool (net of depreciation, depletion and amortization and related deferred taxes) exceed the sum of the present value (using a 10% discount rate and based on 12-month/SEC oil and natural gas prices) of the estimated future net cash flows from our proved oil and natural gas reserves and the capitalized cost associated with our unproved properties, we would have a capitalized ceiling impairment. Such costs would be charged to operations as a reduction of the carrying value of oil and natural gas properties. The risk that we will be required to write down the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties increases when oil and natural gas prices are depressed, even if the low prices are temporary. In addition, capitalized ceiling impairment charges may occur if we experience poor drilling results or if estimations of our proved reserves are substantially reduced. A capitalized ceiling impairment is a reduction in earnings that does not impact cash flows, but does impact operating income and stockholders' equity. Once recognized, a capitalized ceiling impairment charge to oil and natural gas properties cannot be reversed at a later date. The risk that we will experience a ceiling test writedown increases when oil and natural gas prices are depressed or if we have substantial downward revisions in our estimated proved reserves. At December 31, 2015, we performed an impairment review using prices that reflect an average of 2015's monthly prices as prescribed pursuant to the SEC's guidelines. For the year ended December 31, 2015, we recorded a full cost impairment expense of $1.2 billion. For the year ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, the results of the ceiling test concluded that the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties was significantly below the calculated ceiling test value and, as such, our properties were not impaired. These average prices used in the December 31, 2015 impairment review are significantly higher than the actual and currently forecasted prices in 2016. As lower average monthly pricing is reflected in the trailing 12-month average pricing calculation, the present value of our future net revenues is expected to decline and impairment could be recognized. If this significantly lower pricing environment persists we expect we could be required to write down the value of our oil and gas properties. In addition, capitalized ceiling impairment charges may occur if estimates of proved hydrocarbon reserves are substantially reduced or estimates of future development costs increase significantly. See "