ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to substantial risks and uncertainties. Any of the risks and uncertainties described below, either alone or taken together, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or our prospects for growth. In addition, these risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K (please read the “Cautionary Note Regarding forward-Looking Statements” appearing at the beginning of this Form 10-K). The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects and the value of an investment in our common stock and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward looking statements. Risks related to Development and Commercialization of our Product Candidates We depend heavily on the success of our most advanced product candidate, ARIKACE. U.S. clinical trials of ARIKACE for CF patients with Pseudomonas lung infections have been placed on clinical hold by the FDA and we may not proceed with the development of ARIKACE for treatment of CF patients in the U.S. If we are unable to commercialize ARIKACE, need to limit the scope of our ARIKACE program, or experience significant delays in development, our business will be materially harmed. We are investing a significant portion of our efforts and financial resources in the development of ARIKACE, our most advanced product candidate. Our ability to generate product revenue, which we do not expect will occur for at least the next several years, if ever, will depend heavily on the successful development and commercialization of ARIKACE. In August 2011, we announced that the FDA placed a clinical hold on our Phase 3 clinical trials for ARIKACE in CF patients with Pseudomonas lung infections and NTM patients due to the results of a long-term rat carcinogenicity study. The FDA has lifted the clinical hold for ARIKACE in NTM and we are proceeding with a Phase 2 trial in NTM patients. The FDA clinical hold for CF continues to be in place and we do not know whether or when the clinical hold for the development of ARIKACE for CF patients will be lifted. As a result of the clinical holds for CF and NTM, we, among other things, suspended the recruitment and enrollment of patients. We have begun the work necessary to initiate a Phase 2 NTM trial. We may not proceed with the Phase 3 clinical trial in CF in the U.S. as a result of clinical hold. If we are not able to continue development of ARIKACE in one or both of these indications or if our progress in development of ARIKACE is delayed significantly, our business, results of operations, financial condition and our prospects will be adversely affected. However, we currently expect to commence patient accrual in the second quarter of 2012 for a Phase 3 clinical study of ARIKACE for CF patients with Pseudomonas lung infections to support potential approval in Europe and potentially other countries outside the U.S. We plan to conduct the study in Europe. The key elements of these study designs and regulatory paths have been agreed to with the EMA and with the regulatory agencies in the individual countries in which the trials will be conducted. 30 Index Positive results from clinical trials or in preclinical studies of a drug candidate may not be predictive of similar results in human clinical trials, and promising results from earlier clinical trials of a drug candidate may not be replicated in later clinical trials. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in late-stage clinical trials even after achieving promising results in earlier stages of development. Accordingly, the results of the completed clinical trials for ARIKACE may not be predictive of the results we may obtain in later stage trials. We do not expect any of our drug candidates to be commercially available for at least several years, if at all. We have not completed the research and development stage of any of our product candidates other than IPLEX, which we no longer market. If we are unable to successfully commercialize our products, it will materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and our growth prospects. Our long-term viability and growth depend on the successful commercialization of ARIKACE and potentially other product candidates that lead to revenue and profits. Pharmaceutical product development is an expensive, high risk, lengthy, complicated, resource intensive process. In order to conduct the development programs for our products, we must, among other things, be able to successfully: · Identify potential drug product candidates; · Design and conduct appropriate laboratory, preclinical and other research; · Submit for and receive regulatory approval to perform clinical studies; · Design and conduct appropriate preclinical and clinical studies according to good laboratory and good clinical practices; · Select and recruit clinical investigators; · Select and recruit subjects for our studies; · Collect, analyze and correctly interpret the data from our studies; · Submit for and receive regulatory approvals for marketing; and · Manufacture the drug product candidates according to cGMP. The development program with respect to any given product will take many years and thus delay our ability to generate profits. In addition, potential products that appear promising at early stages of development may fail for a number of reasons, including the possibility that the products may require significant additional testing or turn out to be unsafe, ineffective, too difficult or expensive to develop or manufacture, too difficult to administer or unstable. If we do not proceed with the development of our ARIKACE program in the CF or NTM indications, certain organizations that provided funding to us for such developmental efforts may elect to proceed with the development of these indications. Failure to successfully commercialize our products will adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and our growth prospects. If our proposed treatment population for CF or NTM is limited by the FDA, our preclinical studies do not produce positive results or our clinical trials are delayed or if serious side effects are identified during drug development, we may experience delays, incur additional costs and ultimately be unable to commercialize our product candidates in the U.S., Europe or other countries. Before obtaining regulatory approval for the sale of our product candidates, we must conduct, at our own expense, extensive preclinical tests to demonstrate the safety of our product candidates in animals, and clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates in humans. For example, the FDA has requested that we conduct a 9-month dog inhalation toxicity study to determine if the findings of the long-term rat inhalation carcinogenicity study with ARIKACE are observed in a non-rodent model. We have initiated the work necessary to begin the dog inhalation toxicity study during the second quarter of 2012. We have not reached agreement with the FDA regarding the clinical hold for CF and the study design for Phase 3 clinical trials in CF patients with Pseudomonas lung infections. The FDA has required us to conduct a Phase 2 clinical trial in adult NTM patients intended to provide proof-of-concept efficacy and safety data for ARIKACE in NTM. 31 Index Preclinical and clinical testing is expensive, difficult to design and implement and can take many years to complete. A failure of one or more of our preclinical studies or clinical trials can occur at any stage of testing. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, preclinical testing and the clinical trial process that could delay or prevent our ability to obtain regulatory approval or commercialize our product candidates, including: · Our preclinical tests or clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional preclinical testing or clinical trials or we may abandon projects that we expect to be promising; · Regulators or institutional review boards may not authorize us to commence a clinical trial or conduct a clinical trial at a prospective trial site; · Enrollment in the clinical trials may take longer than expected or the clinical trials as designed may not allow for sufficient patient accrual to complete enrollment of the trial; · We may decide to limit or abandon our commercial development program; · Conditions imposed on us by the FDA or any non-U.S. regulatory authority regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials may require us to submit information to regulatory authorities, Ethics Committees, IRBs or others for review and approval; · The number of patients required for our clinical trials may be larger than we anticipate or participants may drop out of our clinical trials at a higher rate than we anticipate; · Our third party contractors or clinical investigators may fail to comply with regulatory requirements or fail to meet their contractual obligations to us in a timely manner; · We may have to suspend or terminate one or more of our clinical trials if we, the regulators or the institutional review boards determine that the participants are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; · We may not be able to demonstrate that a product candidate provides an advantage over current standard of care or future competitive therapies in development; · Regulators or institutional review boards may require that we hold, suspend or terminate clinical research for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements; · The cost of our clinical trials may be greater than we anticipate; · The supply or quality of our product candidates or other materials necessary to conduct our clinical trials may be insufficient or inadequate or we may not be able to reach agreements on acceptable terms with prospective clinical research organizations; and · The effects of our product candidates may not be the desired effects or may include undesirable side effects or the product candidates may have other unexpected characteristics. We have been informed by the FDA that its decision to place a clinical hold on our Phase 3 clinical trials for ARIKACE in CF patients and patients with NTM lung infections was based on the results of a long-term rat inhalation carcinogenicity study. While the FDA has removed the clinical hold for NTM, the clinical hold on our Phase 3 clinical trials for ARIKACE in CF patients remains in place. There can be no assurance that the FDA will allow us to further develop ARIKACE for CF patients . 32 Index If we are required to conduct additional clinical trials or other testing of our product candidates beyond those that we currently contemplate, if we are unable to successfully complete our clinical trials or other testing, if the results of these trials or tests are not positive or are only modestly positive or if there are safety concerns, we may: · Be delayed in obtaining, or may not be able to obtain, marketing approval for one or more of our product candidates; · Obtain approval for indications that are not as broad as intended or entirely different than those indications for which we sought approval; or · Have the product removed from the market after obtaining marketing approval. Our product development costs have and may continue to increase if we experience further delays in testing or approvals. We do not know what impact the remaining clinical hold for CF will have on our clinical programs for ARIKACE. In addition, we do not know whether any additional preclinical tests, other than the dog inhalation toxicity study or clinical trials, will be initiated, will need to be restructured or will be completed on schedule, if at all. Significant preclinical or clinical trial delays also could shorten the patent protection period during which we may have the exclusive right to commercialize our product candidates. Such delays could allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do and impair our ability to commercialize our products or product candidates. We have limited experience in conducting and managing the preclinical development activities and clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approvals, including approval by the FDA. We have limited experience in conducting and managing the preclinical development activities and clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approvals, including approval by the FDA. We have not completed a Phase 3 clinical trial for, obtained regulatory approval for nor commercialized any of our product candidates following our Merger with Transave. Our limited experience might prevent us from successfully designing or implementing a clinical trial. We have limited experience in conducting and managing the application process necessary to obtain regulatory approvals and we might not be able to demonstrate that our product candidates meet the appropriate standards for regulatory approval. If we are not successful in conducting and managing our preclinical development activities or clinical trials or obtaining regulatory approvals, we might not be able to commercialize our lead product candidate, or might be significantly delayed in doing so, which will materially harm our business. We may not be able to enroll enough patients to complete our clinical trials. The completion rate of clinical studies of our products is dependent on, among other factors, the patient enrollment rate. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including: · Investigator identification and recruitment; · Regulatory approvals to initiate study sites; · Patient population size; · The nature of the protocol to be used in the trial; · Patient proximity to clinical sites; · Eligibility criteria for the study; · The patients’ willingness to participate in the study; · Competition from other companies’ clinical studies for the same patient population; and 33 Index · Ability to obtain comparator drug or medical device. We believe our procedures for enrolling patients have been appropriate. However, delays in patient enrollment would increase costs and delay ultimate commercialization and sales, if any, of our products. The commercial success of any product candidates that we may develop, including ARIKACE, will depend upon the degree of market acceptance by physicians, patients, third-party payors and others in the medical community. Any products that we bring to the market, including ARIKACE, may not gain market acceptance by physicians, patients, third-party payors and others in the medical community. If these products do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance, we may not generate significant product revenue and we may not become profitable. The degree of market acceptance of our product candidates, if approved for commercial sale, will depend on a number of factors, including: · The prevalence and severity of any side effects, including any limitations or warnings contained in a product’s approved labeling; · The efficacy and potential advantages over alternative treatments; · The pricing of our product candidates; · Relative convenience and ease of administration; · The willingness of the target patient population to try new therapies and of physicians to prescribe these therapies; · The strength of marketing and distribution support and timing of market introduction of competitive products; · Publicity concerning our products or competing products and treatments; and · Sufficient third party insurance coverage or reimbursement. Even if a potential product displays a favorable efficacy and safety profile in preclinical and clinical trials, market acceptance of the product will not be known until after it is launched. Our efforts to educate the medical community and third-party payors on the benefits of our product candidates may require significant resources and may never be successful. Such efforts to educate the marketplace may require more resources than are required by the conventional technologies marketed by our competitors. Risks Related to Our Financial Condition and Capital Requirements We have a history of operating losses. We expect to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future and may never achieve or maintain profitability. We are a biopharmaceutical company focused on the development of innovative inhaled pharmaceuticals for the site-specific treatment of serious lung diseases. We have incurred losses each previous year of operation, except in 2009, when we sold our manufacturing facility and other Follow-On Biologics (FOB) assets to Merck. We expect to continue incurring operating losses for the foreseeable future. The process of developing and commercializing our products requires significant pre-clinical and clinical testing as well as regulatory approvals for commercialization and marketing before we are allowed to begin product sales. In addition, commercialization of our drug candidates likely would require us to establish a sales and marketing organization and contractual relationships to enable product manufacturing and other related activities. We expect that our activities, together with our general and administrative expenses, will continue to result in substantial operating losses for the foreseeable future. As of December 31, 2011, our accumulated deficit was $294.2 million. For the year ended December 31, 2011, our consolidated net loss was $59.7 million. To achieve and maintain profitability, we need to generate significant revenues from future product sales. This will require us to be successful in a range of challenging activities, including: 34 Index · Obtaining marketing approval for the marketing of ARIKACE and possibly other product candidates which have yet to be developed and which would also require marketing approval; · Commercializing ARIKACE and any other product candidates for which we obtain marketing approval; and · Achieving market acceptance and reimbursement of ARIKACE and any other product candidates for which we obtain marketing approval in the medical community and with patients and third-party payors. ARIKACE will require marketing approval and investment in commercial capabilities, including manufacturing and sales and marketing efforts, before its product sales generate any revenues for us. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with drug development and commercialization, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses. We may never successfully commercialize any products, generate significant future revenues or achieve and sustain profitability. We expect that we will need additional funds in the future to continue our operations, but we face uncertainties with respect to our access to capital. Our operations have consumed substantial amounts of cash since inception. We expect to continue to incur substantial research and development expenses. We may need to seek additional funding in order to complete any clinical trials related to ARIKACE, seek regulatory approvals of ARIKACE, launch ARIKACE and continue our other clinical and preclinical programs. We may also require additional future capital in order to continue our other research and development activities or to acquire complementary technology. As of December 31, 2011, we had $78.3 million of cash and investments on hand. If adequate funds are not available to us on a timely basis, we may be required to reduce or eliminate research and development programs or commercial efforts. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including factors associated with: · Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical trials and commercialization of ARIKACE; · Non-clinical and clinical testing; · Process development and scale up for manufacturing; · Manufacturing; · Obtaining marketing, sales and distribution capabilities; · Obtaining regulatory approvals; · Research and development, including formulation development · Retaining employees and consultants; · Filing and prosecuting patent applications and enforcing patent claims; · Establishing strategic alliances and collaborations with third-parties; and · Current and potential future litigation. We may also need to spend more funds than currently expected because we may further change or alter drug development plans, acquire additional drugs or drug candidates or we may misjudge our costs. We have no committed sources of capital and do not know whether additional financing will be available when needed, or, if available, that the terms will be favorable. There can be no assurance that our cash reserves together with any subsequent funding will be sufficient for our capital requirements. The failure to satisfy our capital requirements will adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. 35 Index We may seek additional funding through strategic alliances, private or public sales of our securities, debt financing or licensing all or a portion of our technology. Such funding may significantly dilute existing shareholders or may limit our rights to our currently developing technology. Our supply of IPLEX was fully depleted in the fourth quarter of 2011, and we currently have no material source of operating revenue. Our revenue from the EAP and the sale of IPLEX has previously been our only material source of operating revenue. Unless we can execute one or more income generating transactions, we will have no material sources of operating revenue. We expect to continue to incur substantial additional operating losses for at least the next several years as we continue to develop ARIKACE and potentially seek to commercialize the product. If we are not successful in our efforts to evaluate potential future IPLEX initiatives and to identify and engage in possible out- licensing opportunities for IPLEX, we may not derive any future revenues from IPLEX. We are currently evaluating possible out-licensing opportunities for IPLEX. We may have difficulty identifying possible markets and prospective partners for out-licensing. Even if we are able to enter into out-licensing arrangements, we may not derive any revenue from those arrangements. We may be unable to use our net operating losses. We have substantial tax loss carry forwards for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Our ability to use such carry forwards to offset future income or tax liability is limited under section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Changes in the ownership of our stock, including those resulting from the issuance of shares of our common stock upon exercise of outstanding warrants or options, may further limit or eliminate our ability to use our net operating losses. Risks Related to Regulatory Matters We cannot be certain that we will obtain regulatory approvals in the U.S., Europe or other countries. If we fail to obtain such approvals, we will not be able to commercialize our products. We are required to obtain various regulatory approvals prior to studying our products in humans and then again before we market and distribute our products. The regulatory review and approval processes required to perform a clinical study in both the U.S. and Europe include evaluation of preclinical studies and clinical studies, as well as the evaluation of our manufacturing process. These processes are complex, lengthy, expensive, resource intensive and uncertain. Securing regulatory approval to market our products also requires the submission of extensive preclinical and clinical data, manufacturing information regarding the process and facility, scientific data characterizing our product and other supporting data to the regulatory authorities in order to establish its safety and effectiveness. This process is also complex, lengthy, expensive, resource intensive and uncertain. We have limited experience in filing and pursuing applications necessary to gain these regulatory approvals. Data submitted to the regulators is subject to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory agency approval. The FDA placed a clinical hold on our Phase 3 clinical trials for ARIKACE in CF patients with Pseudomonas lung infections and patients with NTM lung infections based on the results of a long-term rat inhalation carcinogenicity study with ARIKACE, our leading drug candidate. The FDA clinical hold continues to be in place for our Phase 3 clinical trial for ARIKACE in CF patients in one of only two planned treatment indications. We do not know whether or when the FDA will allow us to continue the U.S. Phase 3 clinical trials in CF. The clinical hold for NTM patients has been lifted and we are proceeding with a Phase 2 clinical trial. We may also encounter delays or rejections based on changes in regulatory agency policies during the period in which we develop a product and the period required for review of any application for regulatory agency approval of a particular product. 36 Index Delays in obtaining regulatory agency approvals could adversely affect the development and marketing of any drugs that we or our collaborative partners develop. Such delays could impose costly procedures on our collaborative partners’ or our activities, diminish any competitive advantages that our collaborative partners or we may attain and adversely affect our ability to receive royalties, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. To market our products outside of the U.S and, Europe, we and our collaborative partners must comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries. The approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in these other territories might differ from that required to obtain FDA or EMA approval. The regulatory approval process in these other territories includes at least all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA and EMA approval detailed above. Approval by the FDA or the EMA does not ensure approval by the regulatory authorities of other countries. Marketing approval in one country does not ensure marketing approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining marketing approval in one country may have a negative effect on the regulatory process in others. In addition, we may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of marketing approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution if we fail to comply with applicable foreign regulatory requirements. If we fail to comply with regulatory requirements in international markets or to obtain and maintain required approvals, our target market will be reduced and our ability to realize the full market potential of our product candidates will be harmed. The failure to obtain such approvals may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or future prospects. In our clinical studies, ARIKACE must be administered via an optimized, investigational eFlow Nebulizer System (PARI Pharma GmbH), manufactured by a private German company, PARI. This nebulizer system has not received regulatory approval in the U.S., EU or any other countries. For ARIKACE to be successfully developed and commercialized, the nebulizer must satisfy certain regulatory requirements. We are not medical device experts. For ARIKACE clinical trials to be conducted, we must have an adequate supply of the investigational optimized, investigational eFlow Nebulizer System and PARI must be able to supply the system. We are dependent upon PARI being able to provide an adequate supply of the nebulizers both for the clinical trials in the event ARIKACE receives marketing approval. These nebulizers must be in good working order and meet specific performance characteristics. In addition, both the drug, ARIKACE, and the medical device, optimized, investigational eFlow Nebulizer System, must receive regulatory approval before we can market ARIKACE and the medical device. Even if we obtain marketing approval for ARIKACE or any of our other product candidates, we will continue to face extensive regulatory requirements and our products may face future development and regulatory difficulties. Even if marketing approval in the U.S. is obtained, the FDA may still impose significant restrictions on a product’s indicated uses or marketing, including risk evaluation and mitigation strategies, or impose ongoing requirements, including with respect to: · Labeling, such as black box or other warnings or contraindications; · Post-market surveillance, post-market studies or post-market clinical trials; · Packaging, storage, distribution, safety surveillance, advertising, promotion, recordkeeping and reporting of safety and other post-market information; · Monitoring and reporting adverse events and instances of the failure of a product to meet the specifications in the NDA; · Changes to the approved product, product labeling or manufacturing process; · Advertising and other promotional material; and 37 Index · Disclosure of clinical trial results on publicly available databases. In addition, manufacturers of drug products and their facilities are subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulatory authorities for compliance with cGMP regulations. The distribution, sale and marketing of our products are subject to a number of additional requirements, including: · State wholesale drug distribution laws and the distribution of our product samples to physicians must comply with the requirements of the Prescription Drug Marketing Act; · Sales, marketing and scientific or educational grant programs must comply with the anti-kickback and fraud and abuse provisions of the Social Security Act, the transparency provision of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and an associated reconciliation bill that became law in March 2010, which we refer to collectively as the Health Care Reform Law, the False Claims Act and similar state laws; and · Pricing and rebate programs must comply with the Medicaid rebate requirements of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990 and the Veteran’s Health Care Act of 1992, and if products are made available to authorized users of the Federal Supply Schedule of the General Services Administration, additional laws and requirements apply. All of these activities are also potentially subject to federal and state consumer protection and unfair competition laws. We are also subject to changes or revisions to these laws and regulations that may make gaining regulatory approval, reimbursement and pricing more difficult or at least subject to different criteria and standards. If we or any third parties involved in our commercialization efforts fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may: · Issue warning letters or untitled letters asserting that we are in violation of the law; · Seek an injunction or impose civil or criminal penalties or monetary fines; · Suspend or withdraw marketing approval; · Suspend any ongoing clinical trials; · Refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to applications submitted by us; · Suspend or impose restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; · Seize or detain products, refuse to permit the import or export of products, or require us to initiate a product recall; · Refuse to allow us to enter into supply contracts, including government contracts; · Impose civil monetary penalties; or · Pursue civil or criminal prosecutions and fines against our company or responsible officers. Any government investigation of alleged violations of law could require us to expend significant time and resources in response, and could generate negative publicity. The occurrence of any event or penalty described above may inhibit our ability to commercialize our product candidates and generate revenues. 38 Index Even if we obtain marketing approval for ARIKACE or any of our other product candidates, adverse effects discovered after approval could limit the commercial profile of any approved product. If we obtain marketing approval for ARIKACE or any other product candidate that we develop, we or others may later discover, after use in a larger number of subjects for longer periods of time than in clinical trials, that our products could have adverse effect profiles that limit their usefulness or require their withdrawal. This discovery could have a number of potentially significant negative consequences, including: · Regulatory authorities may withdraw their approval of the product; · Regulatory authorities may require the addition of labeling statements, such as black box or other warnings or contraindications; · Regulatory authorities may require us to issue specific communications to healthcare professionals, such as “Dear Doctor Letters;” · Regulatory authorities may impose additional restrictions on marketing and distribution of the products; · Regulatory authorities may issue negative publicity regarding the product, including safety communications; · We may be required to change the way the product is administered, conduct additional clinical studies or restrict the distribution of the product; · We could be sued and held liable for harm caused to subjects; and · Our reputation may suffer. Any of these events could prevent us from maintaining market acceptance of the affected product candidate, could cause substantial reduction of sales, could substantially increase the costs of commercializing our product candidates, and could cause significant financial losses. If we are unable to obtain adequate reimbursement from governments or third-party payors for any products that we may develop or if we are unable to obtain acceptable prices for those products, our prospects for generating revenue and achieving profitability will suffer. Our prospects for generating revenue and achieving profitability will depend heavily upon the availability of adequate reimbursement for the use of our approved product candidates from governmental and other third-party payors, both in the U.S. and in other markets. Reimbursement by a third party payor may depend upon a number of factors, including the third party payor’s determination that use of a product is: · A covered benefit under its health plan; · Safe, effective and medically necessary; · Appropriate for the specific patient; · Cost-effective; and · Neither experimental nor investigational. Obtaining reimbursement approval for a product from each government or other third-party payor is a time consuming and costly process that could require us to provide supporting scientific, clinical and cost effectiveness data for the use of our products to each payor. We may not be able to provide data sufficient to gain acceptance with respect to reimbursement or we might need to conduct post-marketing studies in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of any future products to such payors’ satisfaction. Such studies might require us to commit a significant amount of management time and financial and other resources. Even when a payor determines that a product is eligible for reimbursement, the payor may impose coverage limitations that preclude payment for some uses that are approved by the FDA or non-U.S. regulatory authorities. In addition, there is a risk that full reimbursement may not be available for high priced products. Moreover, eligibility for coverage does not imply that any product will be reimbursed in all cases or at a rate that allows us to make a profit or even cover our costs. Interim payments for new products, if applicable, may also not be sufficient to cover our costs and may not be made permanent. Subsequent approvals of competitive products could result in a detrimental change to the reimbursement of our products. 39 Index A primary trend in the U.S. healthcare industry and elsewhere is toward cost containment. We expect changes in the Medicare program and increasing emphasis on managed care to continue to put pressure on pharmaceutical product pricing. For example, the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 provides a new Medicare prescription drug benefit that began in 2006 and mandates other reforms. While we cannot predict the full outcome of the implementation of this legislation, it is possible that the new Medicare prescription drug benefit, which will be managed by private health insurers and other managed care organizations, will result in additional government reimbursement for prescription drugs, which may make some prescription drugs more affordable but may further exacerbate industry wide pressure to reduce prescription drug prices. If one or more of our product candidates reaches commercialization, such changes may have a significant impact on our ability to set a price we believe is fair for our products and may affect our ability to generate revenue and achieve or maintain profitability. In addition, in both the U.S. and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the health care system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our products profitably. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, or, collectively, the Health Care Reform Law, was enacted. The Health Care Reform Law broadly intends to expand access to health insurance, reduce or constrain the growth of healthcare spending, enhance remedies against fraud and abuse, add new transparency requirements for healthcare and health insurance industries, impose new taxes and fees on the health industry and impose additional health policy reforms. We will not know the full effects of the Health Care Reform Law until applicable federal and state agencies issue regulations or guidance under the new law. Although it is too early to determine the effect of the Health Care Reform Law, the new law appears likely to continue the pressure on pharmaceutical pricing, especially under the Medicare program, and also may increase our regulatory burdens and operating costs. We expect further federal and state proposals and health care reforms to continue to be proposed by legislators, which could limit the prices that can be charged for the products we develop and may limit our commercial opportunity. We will need FDA approval as well as approval of other regulatory authorities in jurisdictions outside the U.S. of our proposed trade name, ARIKACE, and any failure or delay associated with such approval may delay the commercialization of ARIKACE. Any trade name we intend to use for our product candidates will require approval from the FDA regardless of whether we have secured a formal trademark registration from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (PTO). The FDA typically conducts a rigorous review of proposed trade names, including an evaluation of potential for confusion with other trade names and medical error. The FDA may also object to a trade name if it believes the name inappropriately implies medical claims. If the FDA objects to our proposed trade name, ARIKACE, we may be required to adopt an alternative name for our product candidate. Even after approval, the FDA may request that we adopt an alternative name for the product if adverse event reports indicate a potential for confusion with other trade names and medical error. If we are required to adopt an alternative name, the commercialization of ARIKACE could be delayed or interrupted, which would limit our ability to commercialize ARIKACE and generate revenues. 40 Index Risks Related to Dependence on Third Parties We may not have or be able to obtain sufficient quantities of our products to meet our required supply for clinical studies or commercialization requirements. We do not have any in-house manufacturing capability other than for development and characterization ,and depend completely on a small number of third-party manufacturers and suppliers for the manufacture of our products on a clinical or commercial scale. Arikace and the nebulizer each are supplied by a sole manufacturer. The inability of the supplier to fulfill supply requirements of the Company could materially impact future operating results. A change in the relationship with this supplier, or an adverse change in their business, could materially impact future operating results. We do not have long-term commercial agreements with all of these third parties, and if they are unable or unwilling to perform for any reason, we may not be able to locate suppliers or enter into favorable agreements with them. Any inability to acquire sufficient quantities of our components in a timely manner from these third parties could delay clinical trials or commercialization and prevent us from developing and distributing our products in a cost-effective manner or on a timely basis. In addition, manufacturers of our components may be subject to cGMP and similar foreign standards and we do not have control over compliance with these regulations by our manufacturers. If one of our contract manufacturers fails to maintain compliance, the production of our products could be interrupted, resulting in delays and additional costs. In addition, if the facilities of such manufacturers do not pass a pre-approval or post-approval plant inspection, the FDA will not grant approval and may institute restrictions on the marketing or sale of our products. We are reliant on third-party manufactures and suppliers to meet the distribution demands of our clinical supplies and future commercial products. Delays in receipt of materials, scheduling, release, custom’s control and regulatory compliance issues may adversely impact our ability to initiate, maintain or complete clinical trials that we are sponsoring or may adversely impact commercialization. Commercial manufacturing and supply agreements have not been established. Issues arising from scale-up, facility construction, environmental controls, equipment requirements, local and federal permits and allowances or other factors may have an adverse impact on our ability to manufacture the product. We may be unable to obtain an adequate supply of nebulizer devices for timely completion of our clinical studies and commercialization. The failure to obtain these medical devices may delay the development and commercialization of our product candidates. We are dependent upon the PARI investigational e-Flow Nebulizer System and PARI Pharma GmbH for the production and supply of nebulizer devices. We may encounter delays in the delivery of the medical devices to us due to manufacturing delays, regulatory actions directed against the manufacturer, or issues in the shipping of the medical devices. Such delays may affect the enrollment and treatment schedules of patients and delay the receipt of evaluative clinical data. Such delays could also result in a delay in obtaining marketing approval for one or more of our product candidates. Our product development costs will also increase if we experience delays in the delivery of nebulizer devices to us. We rely on collaborative relationships for our success. If we are unable to form and sustain these relationships, or if any collaboration arrangements that we may enter into are not successful, our ability to develop and commercialize our products will be materially adversely affected. We currently rely and will in the future rely on a number of significant collaborative relationships for intellectual property rights, research funding, manufacturing, analytical services, preclinical development, clinical development and sales and marketing. For example, almost all of our clinical trial work is done in collaboration with academic institutions and we have licensed intellectual property to permit the development, manufacture and commercialization of our products. Reliance on collaborative relationships poses a number of risks, including the following: · We may face significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators; · Collaboration arrangements are complex and time consuming to negotiate, document and implement; · We may not be successful in our efforts to establish and implement collaborations or other alternative arrangements that we might pursue on favorable terms; 41 Index · We may not be able to effectively control whether our corporate partners will devote sufficient resources to our programs or products; · Disputes may arise in the future with respect to the ownership of rights to technology developed with, licensed to or licensed from corporate partners; · Disagreements with corporate partners are difficult to resolve and could result in loss of intellectual property rights, delay or terminate the research, development or commercialization of product candidates or result in litigation or arbitration; · Contracts with our corporate partners may fail to provide sufficient protection of our intellectual property; · We may have difficulty enforcing the contracts if one of these partners fails to perform; · Corporate partners have considerable discretion in electing whether to pursue the development of any additional products and may pursue technologies or products either on their own or in collaboration with our competitors; and · Corporate partners with marketing rights may choose to devote fewer resources to the marketing of our products than they do to products of their own development. A great deal of uncertainty exists regarding the success of any current and future collaborative efforts. Failure of these efforts could delay, impair or prevent the development and commercialization of our products and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our growth depends on technologies that may not be available or, if available and licensed, may not be available on terms acceptable to us. As part of our business strategy, we expect to in-license new products and technologies. Nonetheless, we cannot assure you that we will identify suitable products or enter into such license agreements on acceptable terms. We may enter into collaborative relationships that would involve our collaborators conducting proprietary development programs. Any conflict with our collaborators could limit our ability to obtain future collaboration agreements and negatively influence our relationship with existing collaborators. Disagreements with collaborators may also develop over the rights to our intellectual property. Certain of our collaborators could also be or become competitors. Our collaborators could harm our product development and commercialization efforts by: · Developing competing products; · Precluding us from entering into collaborations with their competitors; · Failing to obtain regulatory approvals; · Terminating their agreements with us prematurely; or · Failing to devote sufficient resources to the development and commercialization of products. 42 Index Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property We may not accurately predict the protection afforded by our patents and proprietary technology. Our success will depend in part on our ability to protect proprietary technology and to obtain patent protection for our products, prevent third parties from infringing on our patents and refrain from infringing on the patents of others, both domestically and internationally. In addition, the patent situation in the field of biotechnology and pharmaceuticals generally is highly uncertain and involves complex legal, technical, scientific and factual questions. We intend to actively pursue patent protection for products resulting from our research and development activities that have significant potential commercial value. We may not be able to obtain additional issued patents relating to our technology or products. Even if issued, patents issued to us or our licensors may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated, held to be unenforceable or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing similar products or reduce the term of patent protection we may have for our products. There can be no assurance that any patents obtained will afford us adequate protection or provide us with any meaningful competitive advantages against these competitors. Changes in either patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the U.S. and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection. In addition, any patents we procure may require cooperation with companies holding related patents and we may have difficulty forming a successful relationship with such other companies. Third parties may claim that we are infringing upon or have misappropriated their proprietary rights. Various third parties have obtained, and are attempting to obtain, patent protection relating to the production and use of our approved product and product candidates. We can give no assurances as to whether any issued patents, or patents that may later issue to third parties, would affect our contemplated commercialization of ARIKACE or any other product. We can give no assurances that such patents can be avoided, invalidated or licensed. With respect to any infringement claim asserted by a third party, we can give no assurances that we will be successful in the litigation or that such litigation would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation or prospects. In the event of a successful claim against us for infringement or misappropriation of a third party’s proprietary rights, we may be required to: · Pay damages, including up to treble damages, and the other party’s attorneys’ fees, which may be substantial; · Cease the development, manufacture, marketing and sale of products or use of processes that infringe the proprietary rights of others; · Expend significant resources to redesign our products or our processes so that they do not infringe the proprietary rights of others, which may not be possible; · Redesign our products or processes to avoid third-party proprietary rights, which means we may suffer significant regulatory delays associated with conducting additional clinical trials or other steps to obtain regulatory approval; and · Obtain one or more licenses arising out of a settlement of litigation or otherwise from third parties for the infringed proprietary rights, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Furthermore, litigation with any third party, even if the allegations are without merit, would likely be expensive and time-consuming and divert management’s attention. Any conclusions we may have reached regarding non-infringement and invalidity are based in part on a review of publicly available databases and other information. There may be information not available to us or otherwise not reviewed by us that might change our conclusions. Moreover, as described above, the scope and validity of patent claims are determined based on many facts and circumstances, and in a litigation, a court may reach a different conclusion on any given patent claim from the conclusions that we have reached. 43 Index In addition, we may have to undertake costly litigation to enforce any patents issued or licensed to us or to determine the scope and validity of another party’s proprietary rights. We can give no assurances that a court of competent jurisdiction would validate our issued or licensed patents. An adverse outcome in litigation or interference or other proceeding in any court or patent office could materially adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize our product candidates. If our settlement agreement with Tercica and Genentech (now Ipsen and Roche, respectively) is terminated, we will no longer have a license to manufacture IPLEX. As part of our settlement agreement with Genentech and Tercica, we entered into a Consent Judgment and Permanent Injunction in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California, which permanently enjoins us from using or selling any products containing rhIGF-1 using any methods infringing the patents held by Genentech and Tercica. If our settlement agreement with Tercica and Genentech is terminated, the Consent Judgment and Permanent Injunction against us will survive termination, and we would no longer have a license to manufacture IPLEX using the present process without incurring significant penalties and royalties. Risks related to Our Industry Our agreement with Merck prohibits us from competing with Merck in the FOB arena. In connection with the sale of our FOB platform to Merck in March 2009, we agreed not to compete, directly or indirectly, in the U.S. with Merck in the business of developing, marketing or manufacturing the FOB products or product candidates we sold to Merck for a period of five years beginning March 31, 2009. As a result, our ability to enter into licensing arrangements with third parties for FOB product candidates will be significantly limited. We operate in a highly competitive and changing environment, and if we are unable to adapt to our environment, we may be unable to compete successfully. Biotechnology and related pharmaceutical technology have undergone and are likely to continue to experience rapid and significant change. We expect that the technologies associated with biotechnology research and development will continue to develop rapidly. Our future success will depend in large part on our ability to maintain a competitive position with respect to these technologies and to obtain and maintain protection for our intellectual property. Any compounds, products or processes that we develop may become obsolete before we recover any expenses incurred in connection with their development. Rapid technological change could make our products obsolete, and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or future prospects. We expect that successful competition will depend, among other things, on product efficacy, safety, reliability, availability, timing and scope of regulatory approval and price. Specifically, we expect crucial factors will include the relative speed with which we can develop products, complete the clinical testing and regulatory approval processes and supply commercial quantities of the product to the market. We expect competition to increase as technological advances are made and commercial applications broaden. In each of our potential product areas, we face substantial competition from large pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other companies, universities and research institutions. Relative to us, most of these entities have substantially greater capital resources, research and development staffs, facilities and experience in conducting clinical studies and obtaining regulatory approvals, as well as in manufacturing and marketing pharmaceutical products. Many of our competitors may achieve product commercialization or patent protection earlier than us. Furthermore, we believe that our competitors have used, and may continue to use, litigation to gain a competitive advantage. Finally, our competitors may use different technologies or approaches to the development of products similar to the products we are seeking to develop. Competitors could develop and gain FDA approval of products containing amikacin, which could adversely affect our competitive position in all ARIKACE related indications for which we are currently developing products. In the event there are other amikacin products approved by the FDA to treat indications other than those covered by ARIKACE, physicians may elect to prescribe a competitor’s product containing amikacin or to treat the indications for which ARIKACE may receive approval, which is commonly referred to as off-label use. While under FDA regulations a competitor is not allowed to promote off-label use of its product, the FDA does not regulate the practice of medicine and as a result cannot direct physicians as to what product to prescribe to their patients. As a result, we would have limited ability to prevent off-label use of a competitor’s product containing amikacin to treat any diseases for which we have received FDA approval, even if it violates our patents and we have orphan drug exclusivity for the use of amikacin to treat such diseases. This would reduce our revenues and harm our business. 44 Index Competitors could develop and gain FDA approval of antibiotic products that are more effective, safer, more tolerable, more convenient or less expensive, which could adversely affect our competitive position in all ARIKACE related indications for which we are currently developing products. We are aware of other companies developing potentially competitive products, which include oral, systemic or inhaled antibiotic products to treat chronic respiratory infections due to Pseudomonas. If any of our competitors develops a product that is more effective, safer, more tolerable, more convenient or less expensive than ARIKACE, it would adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. We may also face lower priced generic competitors where third-party payors will encourage their use or lower-priced versions of our product or competing products imported into the U.S. from Canada, Mexico and other countries where there are government price controls or other market dynamics that make the products lower priced. Competitors could develop and gain FDA approval of products that treat the underlying cause of CF in a broader range of CF patients than Kalydeco by Vertex. Kalydeco (ivacaftor) by Vertex was approved in January 2012 by the FDA as the first drug targeted to treat the underlying cause of a rare form of CF representing about 4% of patients with CF. Vertex also is studying Kalydeco in combination with another drug candidate for a more common CF mutation. The potential impact of Kalydeco (or similar products approved in the future) on inhaled antibiotic use in CF is uncertain at this time, and it is possible that these therapies could decrease the percentage of CF patients who acquire Pseudomonas lung infections and decrease the need for inhaled antibiotics. If another party obtains orphan drug exclusivity for a product that is essentially the same as a product we are developing in a particular indication, we may be precluded or delayed from commercializing the product in that indication. Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan drug designation to drugs intended to treat a rare disease or condition, which is generally a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the U.S. The Company that obtains the first marketing approval from the FDA for a designated orphan drug for a rare disease receives marketing exclusivity for use of that drug for the designated condition for a period of seven years. Similar laws exist in EU. If a competitor obtains approval of the same drug for the same indication or disease before us, we would be blocked from obtaining approval for our product for seven or more years, unless our product can be shown to be clinically superior. In addition, more than one drug may be approved by the FDA for the same orphan indication or disease as long as the drugs are different drugs. As a result, even if our product is approved and receives orphan drug exclusivity, as in the case of our drugs ARIKACE and IPLEX, the FDA can still approve different drugs for use in treating the same indication or disease covered by our product, which could create a more competitive market for us. 45 Index Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. In order to protect our proprietary technology and processes, we rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our corporate partners, employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators and sponsored researchers and other advisors. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover trade secrets and proprietary information. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our ability to successfully compete in the industry. Our research, development and manufacturing activities used in the production of ARIKACE involve the use of hazardous materials, which could expose us to damages that could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our research, development and manufacturing activities for ARIKACE involve the controlled use of hazardous materials and chemicals. Our contract manufacturer has the facilities and equipment for the appropriate handling of such material at our current scale of operations. However, if any liability arises, we could be liable for any losses incurred by the contract manufacturer, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial conditions. Future plans may require scale-up of our process for either development of commercialization, which may necessitate new facilities and equipment. Permits to obtain and operate our processes may require local and/or state approval, which might not be easily obtained. We may be subject to product liability claims if our products harm people, and we have only limited product liability insurance. The manufacture and sale of human therapeutic products involve an inherent risk of product liability claims and associated adverse publicity. We currently have only limited product liability insurance for our products. We do not know if we will be able to maintain existing or obtain additional product liability insurance on acceptable terms or with adequate coverage against potential liabilities. This type of insurance is expensive and may not be available on acceptable terms. If we are unable to obtain or maintain sufficient insurance coverage on reasonable terms or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims, we may be unable to commercialize our products. A successful product liability claim brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage, if any, may require us to pay substantial amounts and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or future prospects. Risks Related to Employee Matters and Managing Growth We are dependent upon retaining and attracting key personnel and others, the loss of whose services could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We depend highly on the principal members of our scientific and management personnel, the loss of whose services might significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our research, development or business objectives. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain qualified management, scientific and medical personnel, and on our ability to develop and maintain important relationships with commercial partners, leading research institutions and key distributors. Competition for skilled personnel in our industry and market is very intense because of the numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that seek similar personnel. These companies may have greater financial and other resources, offer a greater opportunity for career advancement and have a longer history in the industry than we do. We also experience competition for the hiring of our scientific and clinical personnel from universities, research institutions, and other third parties. We cannot assure that we will attract and retain such persons or maintain such relationships. We have key person insurance of $1 million for Mr. Whitten, our CEO, but do not have such coverage for other employees. We expect that our potential expansion into areas and activities requiring additional expertise, such as further clinical trials, governmental approvals, manufacturing, sales, marketing and distribution will place additional requirements on our management, operational and financial resources. Future growth would impose significant added responsibilities on members of management, including the need to identify, recruit, maintain, motivate and integrate additional employees. Also, our management may need to divert a disproportionate amount of its attention away from our day-to-day activities and devote a substantial amount of time to managing these growth activities. We may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations, which may result in weaknesses in our infrastructure, give rise to operational mistakes, loss of business opportunities, loss of employees and reduced productivity among remaining employees. 46 Index Our potential growth could require significant capital expenditures and may divert financial resources from other projects, such as the anticipated commercialization of ARIKACE or development of additional product candidates. If our management is unable to effectively manage our expected growth, our expenses may increase more than expected, our ability to generate or increase our revenues could be reduced and we may not be able to implement our business strategy. Our future financial performance and our ability to commercialize ARIKACE and our other product candidates and compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to effectively manage any future growth. Risks Related to our Common Stock and Listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market The market price of our stock has been and may continue to be highly volatile, and historically we have never paid dividends on our common stock, and we have no plans to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the ticker symbol INSM. The market price of our stock has been and may continue to be highly volatile, and could be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors may include: · Our listing status on the NASDAQ Capital Market; · Results of our clinical studies and preclinical studies, or those of our corporate partners or our competitors; · Delays in timing of pre-clinical, clinical development and regulatory filings and delays regarding our inability to obtain potential approvals · Strategic business decisions; · Developments in our relationships with corporate partners; · Developments affecting our corporate partners; · Negative regulatory action or regulatory approval with respect to our announcement or our competitors’ announcements of new products; · Government regulation, reimbursement changes and governmental investigation or audits related to us or to our products; · Developments related to our patents or other proprietary rights or those of our competitors; · Other competitor developments; · Changes in the position of securities analysts with respect to our stock or changes in stock ownership by investors; · Operating results below the expectations of public market analysts and investors; and · The need or perceived need to raise additional capital. In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, which have particularly affected the market prices for emerging biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, and which have often been unrelated to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 47 Index In the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have often instituted securities class action litigation against the Company that issued the stock. If any of our shareholders bring a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. The lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management. Future sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the public market, or the possibility of such sales occurring, could also adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock or our future ability to raise capital through an offering of equity securities. At the time of the Merger, certain former Transave stockholders holding approximately 40% of our shares of common stock as of December 1, 2010, entered into lock-up arrangements with us in connection with the Merger and could only dispose of their shares beginning 180 days following the closing date of the Merger (or May 30, 2011). Thereafter, these shareholders may dispose of up to one-third of their shares received in the Merger during each six-month period following May 30, 2011 (with each additional one-third increment being cumulative). These lock-up arrangements expire on May 30, 2012, and these shareholders may dispose of their shares freely after such date. Other than the shares of our common stock subject to lock-up arrangements, all of our common stock is freely tradable in the public market without restriction under the Securities Act, unless these shares are held by our “affiliates,” as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Historically we have never paid dividends on our common stock and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our businesses and, therefore, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends from earnings in the foreseeable future. The remaining available proceeds from the sale of our FOB assets to Merck will be primarily used for the Phase 3 trials and commercialization efforts directed towards ARIKACE. If we fail to meet the continued listing requirements of the NASDAQ Capital Market, our common stock may be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market, which may cause the value of an investment in our common stock to substantially decrease. We may be unable to meet the continued listing requirements of the NASDAQ Capital Market. If a delisting from the NASDAQ Capital Market were to occur, our common stock would be eligible, upon the application of a market maker, to trade on the OTC Bulletin Board or in the “pink sheets.” These alternative markets are generally considered to be less efficient than, and not as broad as, the NASDAQ Capital Market or the NASDAQ Global Market. Therefore, delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Capital Market could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and could limit the liquidity of our common stock and therefore could cause the value of an investment in our common stock to decrease. Exercise of warrants and options issued by us will dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders. As of March 9, 2012, the warrants issued by us in May 2007 were exercisable for up to approximately 160,000 shares of our common stock. As of March 9, 2012, our outstanding restricted stock, restricted stock units and stock options to our employees, officers, directors and consultants were exercisable for up to 143,851 shares of our common stock. The conversion or exercise of some or all of our warrants, restricted stock, restricted stock units and options will dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion or exercise could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. Certain provisions of Virginia law, our articles of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws make a hostile takeover by a third party difficult. Certain provisions of Virginia law and our articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could hamper a third party’s acquisition of, or discourage a third party from attempting to acquire control of us. The conditions could also limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions include: 48 Index · A provision allowing us to issue preferred stock with rights senior to those of the common stock without any further vote or action by the holders of the common stock. The issuance of preferred stock could decrease the amount of earnings and assets available for distribution to the holders of common stock or could adversely affect the rights and powers, including voting rights, of the holders of the common stock. In certain circumstances, such issuance could have the effect of decreasing the market price of the common stock; · The existence of a staggered board of directors in which there are three classes of directors serving staggered three-year terms, thus expanding the time required to change the composition of a majority of directors and perhaps discouraging someone from making an acquisition proposal for us; · The amended and restated bylaws’ requirement that shareholders provide advance notice when nominating our directors; · The inability of shareholders to convene a shareholders’ meeting without the chairman of the board, the president or a majority of the board of directors first calling the meeting; and · The application of Virginia law prohibiting us from entering into a business combination with the beneficial owner of 10% or more of our outstanding voting stock for a period of three years after the 10% or greater owner first reached that level of stock ownership, unless we meet certain criteria. In addition, for ten years we had a “poison pill” shareholder rights plan, which expired in May 2011 without extension. Under Virginia law, our board of directors may implement a new shareholders rights plan without shareholder approval. Our board of directors intends to regularly consider this matter, even in the absence of specific circumstances or takeover proposals, to facilitate its ability in the future to act expeditiously and appropriately should the need arise. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 