ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business We are subject to the risks associated with operating in an evolving market. As a company operating in the rapidly evolving PRC Internet market, we face numerous risks and uncertainties. Some of these risks relate to our ability to: • continue to attract a larger audience to our matrices of Web properties by expanding the type and technical sophistication of the content and services we offer; • develop a sufficiently large customer and user base for our sponsored search business, so as to recover the costs we have incurred for developing and marketing the business and cause it to eventually achieve profitability; • maintain and attract online game users by periodically updating our existing online games and developing and launching new online games; • increase the revenues derived from our fee-based services and products we offer online; • build our online game, sponsored search, and online video businesses successfully; and • attract and retain qualified personnel. Our operating results are likely to fluctuate significantly and may differ from market expectations. Our annual and quarterly operating results have varied significantly in the past, and may vary significantly in the future, due to a number of factors which could have an adverse impact on our business, such as our reliance on advertisers in certain industries for brand advertising revenues, our reliance on operation of TLBB for online game revenues, our reliance on certain key third party distributors for sponsored search revenues and our reliance on mobile network operators for our wireless revenues. The Chinese Internet industry is at an early stage of development. We are unsure if it will continue to grow, and if it does, the rate at which it will grow. In addition, we are subject to government regulations that may change at any time with or without notice. Fluctuations in the industries of our key advertisers may affect our brand advertising revenues materially, because they may cut their spending on online marketing if there is any downturn in their industries. We rely on certain third party distributors to sell our sponsored search products. If we lose any of our key distributors, our business may be materially affected. We rely on our operation of TLBB to derive most of our online game revenue. If there were any interruptions of TLBB’s operation, our online game revenue could be adversely affected. We rely on mobile network operators for, among other things, billing of and collection of wireless service fees from mobile phone users. If our arrangements with the operators were to be terminated, altered or not renewed, or if the operators did not provide continuous or adequate service, our wireless revenues could be reduced significantly. As a result, we believe that year-to-year and quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. In addition, we have experienced very high growth rates in certain business lines in the past, and there may be expectations that these growth rates will continue. In the past, our operating results have sometimes fallen below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, and they may do so again in the future. In this event, the trading price of our common stock may fall. We face intense competition which could reduce our market share and adversely affect our financial performance. There are many companies that distribute online content and services targeting Chinese Internet users. We compete with distributors of content and services over the Internet, including content sites, Web directories, search engines, online games, Internet service providers and sites maintained by government and educational institutions. These sites compete with us for visitor traffic, advertising dollars, online game players, potential partners and wireless services. The Internet market in China is relatively new and rapidly evolving. Competition is intense and expected to increase significantly in the future, because there are no substantial barriers to entry in our market. 37 Table of Contents We have many competitors in the PRC Internet market, including Sina, Tencent, NetEase, Youku, Tudou, Ku6, PConline, SouFun, CRIC, BitAuto, Shanda Interactive Entertainment, Perfect World, Giant, The 9, NetDragon, Kingsoft, Nineyou, Baidu, Google, Qihoo, Yahoo!, SoSo, TOM Group, KongZhong, and Linktone. In addition, there are a number of existing or new PRC Internet portals, including those controlled or sponsored by PRC government entities. We compete with our peers and competitors in China primarily on the following basis: • technological advancements; • attractiveness of products; • brand recognition; • volume of traffic and users; • quality of websites and content; • strategic relationships; • quality of services; • effectiveness of sales and marketing efforts; • talented staff; and • pricing. Our competitors may have certain competitive advantages over us including: • greater brand recognition among Internet users and clients; • better products and services; • larger user and customer bases; • more extensive and well developed marketing and sales networks; and • substantially greater financial and technical resources. Our existing competitors, and vertical sites in particular, may in the future achieve greater market acceptance and gain a greater market share through launching of new products, introducing new technologies, or forming alliances among themselves, or may enhance their ability to compete with us through mergers and acquisitions or financing activities. For example, Ku6 Holding Limited completed a listing by way of merger with Hurray! Holding Co., Ltd, a NASDAQ listed company, in January 2010, with Hurray! Holding Co., Ltd subsequently renamed as Ku6 Media Co., Ltd (NASDAQ: KUTV) in August 2010; SouFun Holdings Limited (NASDAQ: SFUN) completed an initial public offering on NASDAQ in September 2010; BitAuto Holdings Ltd. (or BITA) completed an initial public offering on the NYSE in November 2010; and Youku.com Inc. (NYSE: YOKU) completed an initial public offering on the NYSE in December 2010. Through their listings, in addition to raising capital, which will enhance their ability to compete against us, these competitors gained greater brand recognition for their particular products and services, and as a result we will need additional financial and other resources to compete with these newly listed vertical sites and our operating expenses will increase. If these competitors are more successful than we are in developing products or in attracting and retaining users and advertisers, our revenues and growth rates could decline. It is also possible that new competitors may emerge and acquire significant market share. In addition, operators of leading websites or Internet service providers, including Yahoo!, Microsoft and AOL, currently offer, and could expand, their online products and services targeting China. Such entities may cooperate with other organizations, such as telecommunication operators, in China to accelerate their entry into, and to enhance their competitiveness in, the Chinese market. 38 Table of Contents If we fail to successfully develop and introduce new products and services, our competitive position and ability to generate revenues could be harmed. We are continuously developing new products and services for our users. The planned timing or introduction of new products and services is subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual timing may differ materially from original plans. Unexpected technical, operational, distribution or other problems could delay or prevent the introduction of one or more of our new products or services. Emerging start-ups may be able to innovate and provide new products and services faster than we can. Moreover, we cannot be sure that any of our new products and services will achieve widespread market acceptance or generate incremental revenue. For example, our expansion into micro-blog services was not as successful as we had expected it to be and Sina has established a position as a market leader for such services. Accordingly, if we want to expand our market share for micro-blog, we will need to compete successfully against Sina. If we cannot successfully address the new challenges and compete effectively against Sina and other players in the market, we may not be able to develop a sufficiently large customer and user base and achieve profitability for our micro-blog services, and our financial performance and growth rate may be adversely affected. In addition, when developing and launching new products, we may face indirect methods of competition from existing market players. For example, we developed and launched our desktop products Sogou Pinyin Input method and Sogou browser with the goal of enhancing our brand recognition and attracting and retaining users, but our Sogou browser has been blocked by Qihoo. Use of such technical obstacles by our competitors could prevent us from achieving the market share we had expected, which could negatively affect our financial performance. Our business depends on a strong brand; thus we will not be able to attract users, customers and clients of our products and offerings if we do not maintain and develop our brands. It is critical for us to maintain and develop our brands so as to effectively expand our user base and our revenues. We believe that the importance of brand recognition will increase as the number of Internet users in China grows. In order to attract and retain Internet users, advertisers, online game, sponsored search and wireless customers, we may need to substantially increase our expenditures for creating and maintaining brand loyalty. Accordingly, our revenues will need to increase at least proportionately in order for us to maintain our current levels of profitability. Our success in promoting and enhancing our brands, as well as our ability to remain competitive, will also depend on our success in offering high quality content, features and functionality. If we fail to promote our brands successfully or if visitors to our websites or advertisers do not perceive our content and services to be of high quality, we may not be able to continue growing our business and attracting visitors, advertisers, wireless, and online game players. Our failure to keep up with rapid technology changes may severely affect our future success. The Internet industry is undergoing rapid technological changes. Our future success will depend on our ability to respond to rapidly evolving technologies, adapt our services to changing industry standards and improve the performance and reliability of our services. If we fail to adapt to such changes, our business may be adversely affected. For example, with the evolution of Web 2.0, Internet users may shift to new modes of information sharing, such as Social Networking Series and client-end software. Our competitors may develop their own peer-to-peer streaming technology or update their existing technology to surpass us. With the development of search engine technologies, Internet users may choose to access information, news and content through search engines rather than portals. In addition, the online game industry is evolving rapidly, so we need to anticipate new technologies and games and evaluate their possible market acceptance. We may be unable to recover our game development costs if our new online games are less attractive to users. In addition, with the development of 2.5G and even 3G technology, the focus of wireless applications has been transferred from text message services to multi-media message services, wireless games, wireless downloads and other applications. Accordingly, we will need to adapt our business to cope with the changes and support these new services to be successful. In addition, the MIIT is cooperating with other administrations, including the Ministry of Public Security, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Justice, to draft industry standards or regulations regarding Spyware software. If we cannot adapt to new industry standards, more technical expenses could be required in the future. 39 Table of Contents Our strategy of acquiring complementary assets, technologies and businesses may fail and result in equity or earnings dilution. As a component of our growth strategy, we have acquired and intend to actively identify and acquire assets, technologies and businesses that are complementary to our existing businesses. Our acquisitions could result in the use of substantial amounts of cash, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, significant impairment losses related to goodwill or amortization expenses related to intangible assets and exposure to undisclosed or potential liabilities of acquired companies. Moreover, the resources expended in identifying and consummating acquisitions may be significant. Furthermore, any acquisition we decide to pursue may be subject to the approval of the relevant PRC governmental authorities, as well as any applicable PRC rules and regulations. Considering the fast changing legal environment, our acquisition may be subject to government’s further scrutiny and the acquisition structures we used to adopt may be found to be inappropriate. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if we are required to reassess our goodwill or other amortizable intangible assets arising from acquisitions. We are required under U.S. GAAP to review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment annually or more frequently if facts and circumstances warrant a review. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization and slower or declining growth rates in our industry. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined. Any changes in accounting rules for share-based compensation may adversely affect our operating results, our stock price and our competitiveness in the employee marketplace. Our performance is largely dependent on talented and highly skilled individuals. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to identify, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. We have a history of using employee share options and restricted stock units to align employees’ interest with the interests of our shareholders and encourage quality employees to join us and retain our quality employees by providing competitive compensation packages. On January 1, 2006, we adopted revised guidance on accounting for share-based compensation, which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based compensation based on estimated fair values. As a result, our operating results contain a charge for share-based compensation expense related to employee share options and restricted stock units. The recognition of share-based compensation in our statement of operations would have a negative effect on our reported results and earnings per share, which could in turn negatively affect our stock price. On the other hand, if we alter our employee stock incentive plan to minimize the share-based compensation expenses, it may limit our ability to continue to use share-based awards as a tool to attract and retain our employees, and it may adversely affect our operations. We cannot assure that there will be no changes in the accounting rules for share-based compensation in future; thus our operating results, our stock price and our competitiveness in the employee marketplace may be adversely affected. Any utilization of U.S. federal net operating losses generated from excess tax deductions related to share-based awards will be recorded in shareholders’ equity. Sohu.com Inc. may utilize excess tax benefits from U.S. federal net operating losses (“NOL”) generated from excess tax deductions related to share-based awards (“windfall tax benefit”) to offset their U.S. taxable income. However, in accordance with U.S. GAAP, this windfall tax benefit will be charged to the shareholders’ equity section in our consolidated balance sheets rather than offsetting current year income tax expenses. Realizing this benefit reduces the amount of taxes payable in the U.S. and does not otherwise involve cash flows. Current year income tax expenses still arise due to having U.S. taxable income. For the year ended December 31, 2010, we realized $1.2 million of such items and we recorded $1.2 million income tax expenses for U.S. taxable income. Our failure to manage growth and diversify our business could harm us. We have experienced dramatic growth in personnel in the past five years and we expect to continue to hire additional personnel in selected areas. This growth requires significant time and resource commitments from us and our senior management. If we are unable to effectively manage a large and geographically dispersed group of employees or anticipate our future growth, our business could be adversely affected. 40 Table of Contents Additionally, our business relies on our financial reporting and data systems (including our systems for billing users of our fee-based services), which have grown increasingly complex in the recent past due to acquisitions and the diversification and complexity of our business. Our ability to operate our business efficiently depends on these systems, and if we are unable to adapt to these changes, our business could be adversely affected. If we fail to establish and maintain relationships with content, technology or infrastructure providers, we may not be able to attract and retain users. We rely on a number of third party relationships to provide high-quality video, audio and text content in order to make our websites more attractive to users and advertisers. Most of our arrangements with content providers are short-term and may be terminated at the convenience of the other party. Most content providers have increased the fees they charge us for their content. This trend could increase our costs and operating expenses and could adversely affect our ability to obtain content at an economically acceptable cost. We have also entered into exclusive agreements with some of our video content providers. If we are not able to renew our exclusive deals or video content become exclusive to our competitors, our attractiveness to users will be severely impaired. Except for the exclusive content, much of the third party content provided to our websites is also available from other sources or may be provided to other Internet companies. If other Internet companies present the same or similar content in a superior manner, it would adversely affect our visitor traffic. Our business also depends significantly on relationships with leading technology and infrastructure providers and the licenses that the technology providers have granted to us. Our competitors may establish the same relationships as we have, which may adversely affect us. We may not be able to maintain these relationships or replace them on commercially attractive terms. We depend on key personnel and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose the services of our key executives and employees. Our future success is heavily dependent upon the continued service of our key executives, particularly Dr. Zhang, who is the founder, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board, and a major shareholder of our company. We rely on his expertise in our business operations. In addition, for our online game business, we rely heavily on the continued service of Tao Wang, the Chief Executive Officer of Changyou.com Limited, who has been instrumental in the development of TLBB. If one or more of our key executives and employees are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them easily and our business may be severely disrupted. In addition, if any of our key executives or employees joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose know-how, key professionals and staff members as well as customers, suppliers and incur additional expenses to recruit and train personnel. Each of our executive officers has entered into an employment agreement and a confidentiality, non-competition and non-solicitation agreement with us. However, the degree of protection afforded to an employer pursuant to confidentiality and non-competition undertakings governed by PRC law may be more limited when compared to the degree of protection afforded under the laws of other jurisdictions. We do not maintain key-man life insurance for any of our key executives. We also rely on a number of key technology staff for our business. Given the competitive nature of the industry, the risk of key technology staff leaving Sohu is high and could have a disruptive impact on our operations. Rapid growth and a rapidly changing operating environment strain our limited resources. We have limited operational, administrative and financial resources, which may be inadequate to sustain the growth we want to achieve. As the demands of our audience and the needs of our customers change, as the number of our users and volume of online advertising, and wireless activities increase, and as requirements for maintaining sufficient servers to provide high-definition online video and to provide game players smooth online game experiences increase, we will need to increase our investment in our network infrastructure, facilities and other areas of operations. If we are unable to manage our growth and expansion effectively, the quality of our services could deteriorate and our business may suffer. Our future success will depend on, among other things, our ability to: • adapt our services and maintain and improve the quality of our services; • protect our website from hackers and unauthorized access; 41 Table of Contents • continue training, motivating and retaining our existing employees and attract and integrate new employees; and • develop and improve our operational, financial, accounting and other internal systems and controls. We face risks related to health epidemics and other outbreaks. Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of H1N1 flu, avian flu, SARS or other epidemics or outbreaks. China reported a number of cases of SARS in April 2003. In recent years, there have been reports of occurrences of H1N1 flu and avian flu in various parts of China, including a few confirmed human cases and deaths. Any prolonged recurrence of H1N1 flu, avian flu, SARS or other adverse public health developments in China may have a material adverse effect on our business operations. These could include illness and loss of our management and key employees, as well as temporary closure of our offices and related business operations, such as server operations, upon which we rely. Such loss of management and key employees or closures would severely disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our results of operations. We have not adopted any written preventive measures or contingency plans to combat any future outbreak of H1N1 flu, avian flu, SARS or any other epidemic. In addition, other major natural disasters may also adversely affect our business by, for example, causing disruptions of the Internet network or otherwise affecting access to our portals and our games. For example, after the Sichuan earthquake in May 2008, we suspended our delivering of online advertisements and our MMORPG operations during a three-day national mourning period. We do not have business insurance coverage. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products, or offer them at a high price. As a result, we do not have any business liability, loss of data or disruption insurance coverage for our operations in China. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster might result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of our resources. We depend on online advertising for a significant portion of our revenues, but the online advertisement market includes many uncertainties, which could cause our advertising revenues to decline. We derive a significant portion of our revenues, and expect to derive a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future, from the sale of advertising on our websites. Advertising revenues represented approximately 35% and 34% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, sales to our five largest advertisers accounted for approximately 11% and 15% of our total brand advertising revenues. The growth of our advertising revenues relies on increased revenue from the sale of advertising spaces on our websites, which may be affected by many of the following risk factors: • The online advertising market is new and rapidly evolving, particularly in China. As a result, many of our current and potential advertising clients have limited experience using the Internet for advertising purposes and historically have not devoted a significant portion of their advertising budget to Internet-based advertising. • Changes in government policy could restrict or curtail our online advertising services. For example, during the last several years, the PRC government enacted a series of regulations, administrative instructions and policies to restrict online medical advertising. As a result of these regulations, we may lose some of our existing medical advertising clients. • Advertising clients may adopt the new methods and strategies other than online advertising to promote their brand and therefore our advertising revenue would be negatively affected. • The acceptance of the Internet as a medium for advertising depends on the development of a measurement standard. No standards have been widely accepted for the measurement of the effectiveness of online advertising. Industry-wide standards may not develop sufficiently to support the Internet as an effective advertising medium. If these standards do not develop, advertisers may choose not to advertise on the Internet in general or through our portals or search engines. In addition, our ability to generate and maintain significant online advertising revenues will also depend upon: • the development of a large base of users possessing demographic characteristics attractive to advertising clients; • the acceptance of online advertisement as an effective way for business marketing by advertising clients; 42 Table of Contents • the effectiveness of our advertising delivery, tracking and reporting systems; and • the resistance pressure on online advertising prices and limitations on inventory. Our costs for online advertising have increased significantly as a result of our investment in online video services. If we are unable to manage our operating expenses effectively, our profitability could decline. The operation of an online video service such as ours, which we launched in 2007, requires significant upfront capital expenditures as well as continuous, substantial investment in content, technology and infrastructure. Although we have attempted to control our costs for online video services so that they will not exceed our related revenues, our operating expenses might increase, as a result of any of the following: • license fees for professionally-produced content in general, and for popular movies and television serial dramas in particular, have been increasing recently and may continue to do so; • costs for bandwidth have increased and may continue to do so; and • we will require additional financial operational, strategic, technological, personnel and other resources in order to compete with vertical online video sites that have raised significant capital through initial public offerings and other financing activities. In addition, although China’s online video industry has experienced substantial growth in recent years in terms of both users and content, we cannot assure you that the online video industry will continue to grow as rapidly as it has in the past, if at all. With the development of technology, new forms of media may emerge and render online video websites less attractive to users. Growth of the online video industry is affected by numerous factors, such as users’ general online video experience, technological innovations, development of Internet and Internet-based services, regulatory changes in general, and regulations affecting copyright in particular, and the macroeconomic environment. If the online video industry in China does not grow as quickly as expected or if we fail to benefit from such growth by successfully implementing our business strategies, our user traffic may decrease and our business and prospects may be adversely affected. We rely on advertising agencies to sell our brand advertising services. If current trends of consolidation of advertising agencies in the Chinese market continue, the bargaining power of the large advertising agencies resulting from such consolidation may permit them to require that we pay higher sales rebates, which would adversely affect our gross margin. Most of our brand advertising services are distributed by advertising agencies. In 2010, for example, approximately 94% of our brand advertising revenues were derived from advertising agencies. In consideration for these agencies’ services, we are required to pay certain percentages of revenues as sales rebates. During 2010, the biggest 10 advertising agencies in China contributed approximately 45% of our brand advertising revenue. These advertising agencies currently are seeking consolidation in the market. If the online advertising market is consolidated and effectively controlled by a small number of large advertising agencies, such advertising agencies may be in a position to demand higher sales rebates based on increased bargaining power, which could negatively affect our brand advertising growth as we book our brand advertising revenue netted off our sales rebates to advertising agencies. The expansion of Internet advertisement blocking software may result in a decrease of advertising revenues. The development of Web software that blocks Internet advertisements before they appear on a user’s screen may hinder the growth of online advertising. The expansion of advertisement blocking on the Internet may decrease our revenues because when an advertisement is blocked, it is not downloaded from our advertisement server. As a result, such advertisements will not be tracked as a delivered advertisement. In addition, advertisers may choose not to advertise on the Internet or on our websites because of the use by third parties of Internet advertisement blocking software. 43 Table of Contents Our failure to retain key distributors or attract additional distributors for our sponsored search customers could have an adverse impact on our business. Sponsored search is at an early stage of development in China and is not as widely accepted by or available to businesses in China as in the United States. As a result, we rely heavily on our nationwide distribution network of third-party distributors for our sales to, and collection of payment from, our sponsored search customers. If our distributors do not provide quality services to our customers or otherwise breach their contracts with them, we may lose our customers. We do not have long-term agreements with any of our distributors, including our key distributors, and cannot assure that we will continue to maintain favorable relationships with them. We rely on our website Alliance members for a significant portion of our sponsored search revenues. If we fail to retain existing website Alliance members or attract additional members, our revenues and growth may be adversely affected. By posting bid listing links on their websites, we share the revenues generated from clicks by users with our website Alliance members. For the year ended December 31, 2010, the total revenues generated from website Alliance accounted for approximately 40% of our total bid listing revenues. We consider our website Alliance critical to the future growth of our sponsored search revenues. If our website Alliance members decide to use a competitor’s or their own Internet search services, or if we fail to attract additional websites to join our website Alliance, our sponsored search revenues may decline. Our cooperation with Alibaba Group Holding Limited may not be as successful as we had expected. On October 22, 2010, Sogou Inc. (“Sogou”), one of our subsidiaries, completed the sale of newly-issued Series A Preferred Shares to Alibaba Investment Limited (“Alibaba”) , a private investment subsidiary of Alibaba Group Holding Limited, China Web Search (HK) Limited , an investment vehicle of Yunfeng Fund, LP, and Photon Group Limited , the investment fund of our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Dr. Charles Zhang, for $15 million, $9 million, and $24 million, respectively, that represent approximately 10%, 6% and 16%, respectively, of the outstanding share capital of Sogou on a fully-diluted basis. Following the completion of the financing, we began to cooperate with Alibaba in our sponsored search business. However, we could not assure you that cooperation between us and Alibaba will be as successful as we had expected. If the cooperation with Alibaba is not successful, our sponsored search business might be negatively impacted and our revenue and growth rate could decline. Moreover, if the cooperation with Alibaba is not successful, our relationship with Alibaba might be negatively impacted, which could lead to additional concerns in the light of Alibaba’s position as a shareholder of Sogou. Wireless revenues have fluctuated in prior periods and may decrease in the future. We have derived our wireless revenues in prior periods from providing SMS, RBT, WAP, MMS and IVR, mainly consisting of news, weather forecast, chatting, entertainment information, music, ring tone, picture and logo downloads and various other mobile related products to mobile phone users and Personal Handy-phone System (or PHS) users. The portion of our total revenues derived from wireless services has decreased in certain prior periods. For the year ended December 31, 2010, wireless revenues were around 9% of our total revenues. Wireless revenues may decrease in the future due to the possibilities that: • Our consumers may not understand our services or the fees they are being charged, may not be satisfied with our services and/or may not use our services on a regular basis; • Consumers may cancel their services at any time without notice; • Revenues from new wireless services such as RBT, WAP, MMS and IVR may not continue to grow significantly and become a significant portion of our total wireless revenues; • Competitors, including mobile network operators, may launch competing or better products than ours at any time; • There are limited barriers to entry to the wireless services sector; 44 Table of Contents • Changes in the billing practices or operational rules and procedures of any of the three mobile network operators, China Mobile, China Unicom and China Telecom, on whom we rely for service delivery and fee collection, could have a material impact on our wireless revenues. For instance, on January 1, 2007, a notice of the MIIT came into effect that focuses on the protection of a mobile phone users’ right to select services and the strengthening of regulation on billing procedure. On May 17, 2007, China Mobile initiated a new policy under which all WAP users are reminded of charges they may incur for WAP services. The policy has resulted in a decrease in traffic for WAP portals, and in turn a decrease in subscriptions for our WAP services. On November 29, 2009, China Mobile announced a temporary suspension of billing of WAP services, as an effort to fight against websites providing pornographic content. As a result, beginning in December 2009 we have not been able to collect any revenues from WAP services. We are not sure when China Mobile will resume billing for WAP services and we expect our wireless revenues will be negatively affected. Additionally, beginning from January 25, 2010, China Mobile issued several notices aiming to tighten controls over subscriptions embedded in mobile handsets by mobile manufacturers. Specifically, wireless services embedded in handsets are required to request double confirmations when consumers purchase such services and a single SMS code may only be used for a specific service offering or services partner instead of for multiple service offerings or partners as was permitted previously. Our wireless revenues have been negatively affected by the implementation of such regulations and policies, and there could be new regulations or policies that could further adversely affect our wireless revenues; • Changes in government policy could restrict or curtail the services which we provide. The MIIT has proposed requiring all handset users (including pre-paid mobile phone users) to register using their real names. If this requirement is implemented, it may cause a decrease in new customers, and in turn, reduce our wireless revenues; • Mobile network operators may impose penalties on wireless service providers (or SPs), for violating certain operating policies relating to the provision of wireless services. We have received several penalty notices from mobile network operators, claiming a breach of cooperation contracts and imposing both service suspension sanctions for a period of not more than a year and/or monetary penalties. There is no guarantee that we will not be subject to similar, or more severe, penalties from mobile network operators in the future, which could significantly impair our wireless business; • We may enter into cooperation agreements with mobile network operators on terms that are not favorable to us, since we have limited bargaining power to negotiate contract terms. In addition, mobile network operators may unilaterally revise their agreements at any time. As a result of such contract terms, we could easily be found in breach of our agreement with an operator and may be subject to penalties; and • Mobile network operators may not enter new agreements or renew existing agreements with SPs with respect to wireless services. New or renewed agreements with mobile network operators could change in a way that would be unfavorable to us, or such agreements may not be entered into at all. We rely on contracts with the mobile network operators in a number of ways with respect to our wireless services, including the billing of, and collection from, mobile phone users of wireless service fees. If our arrangements with mobile network operators were to be terminated, altered or not renewed, or if such operators did not provide continuous or adequate service, our revenues could be reduced. Our wireless services depend mainly on the cooperation of mobile network operators such as China Mobile, China Unicom, China Telecom and their respective subsidiaries. We rely on mobile network operators in the following ways: • we use mobile network operators’ networks and gateways to provide wireless services; • we use and rely on mobile network operators’ billing systems to charge our subscribers through the subscribers’ mobile phone bills; • we rely on mobile network operators’ collection proxy services to collect payments from subscribers; and • we rely on mobile network operators’ infrastructure to further develop our wireless services. 45 Table of Contents We face significant risks with respect to our arrangements with mobile network operators which could adversely affect our wireless revenues. Such risks include the following: • Mobile network operators have changed their operating rules and may make further changes at any time. Such previous or any future changes could result in our being required to pay penalties for breaching or being alleged to have breached certain provisions of our agreements with the mobile network operators under new or revised operation rules, or having our service discontinued with or without notice. Changes in these operating rules could also have a material impact on our wireless revenues; • We provide wireless services through our website and record the delivery of the service in our internal systems. However, in order to recognize revenues and receive payment for services provided, we rely on billing confirmations from mobile network operators as to the actual amount of services they have billed to their mobile customers. We are unable to collect wireless service fees from an operator in certain circumstances due to technical issues with the operator’s network. We refer to these failures as an operator’s “failure rate”, which can vary from operator to operator. An operator’s failure rate can vary from month to month, ranging from 0% to 94% and may change at any time without notice. If an operator encounters technical problems, increases in the failure rate for that operator could occur; • The service fees we pay for using an operator’s infrastructure are set on the basis of negotiation of annual contracts. Our negotiation leverage is limited and if an operator increases its service fees or does not comply with the terms of our contract, our gross margin and profitability could be materially reduced. It is possible that some subsidiaries of the mobile network operators may consider increasing their service fees; • We are required to follow the operators’ guidance in setting up wireless service fees. We also rely on the mobile network operators to collect the fees on our behalf which they have billed to our mobile customers. If an operator requires us to reduce the wireless service fees charged to mobile customers, disallows us from billing of certain inactive customers, refuses to pay us, requires us to share bad debts expenses, or, limits the amount of wireless service fees which can be billed or requires us to comply with any new billing rules, our wireless revenues could be adversely affected; • An operator’s refusal to allow us to supply certain services could disrupt our wireless services. For example, during the period from September 1, 2004 to July 31, 2005, our MMS services were temporarily suspended by China Mobile, based on allegations that Beijing Sohu, which was one of our VIEs at the time, breached certain provisions of its agreement with a China Mobile subsidiary; • An operator could launch competing services at any time and could work with content providers directly so that SPs’ abilities to diversify their products might be limited. For example, in July 2006, China Mobile introduced M. Music, an integrated music service platform which China Mobile works directly with music record companies to provide downloads of various songs and music. In December 2006, China Mobile introduced its own WAP channel, “WAP Premier Select”, which is placed in prominent positions on Monternet and directly competes with SPs. If mobile network operators were unwilling to work with us, we would not be able to find substitute partners; • China Mobile set up rules for ranking of WAP service providers on its Monternet browser, which has had a significant impact on WAP revenues. China Mobile may change the rules at any time to affect the rank of the top five listings. As a result, the growth of our WAP revenues was lower than expected and we may lose our existing ranking because of lower visit rates; and • On November 29, 2009, China Mobile announced a temporary suspension of billing of WAP services, as an effort to fight against websites providing pornographic content. As a result, since December 2009, we have not been able to collect any revenues from WAP services. We are not sure when China Mobile will resume billing for WAP services and we expect our wireless revenues will be negatively affected. 46 Table of Contents Risks Related to China’s Telecommunications Infrastructure The telecommunications infrastructure in China, which is not as well developed as in the United States, may limit our growth. The telecommunications infrastructure in China is not well developed. Our growth will depend on the PRC government and state-owned enterprises establishing and maintaining a reliable Internet and telecommunications infrastructure to reach a broader base of Internet users in China. The Internet infrastructure, standards, protocols and complementary products, services and facilities necessary to support the demands associated with continued growth may not be developed on a timely basis or at all by the PRC government and state-owned enterprises. We depend on China Unicom, China Telecom and China Mobile for telecommunications services, and any interruption in these services may result in severe disruptions to our business. Although private Internet service providers exist in China, almost all access to the Internet is maintained through China Unicom, China Telecom and China Mobile, under the administrative control and regulatory supervision of the MIIT. We rely on this infrastructure and China Unicom, China Telecom and China Mobile to provide data communications capacity primarily through local telecommunications lines. Although the government has announced aggressive plans to develop the national information infrastructure, this infrastructure may not be developed and the Internet infrastructure in China may not be able to support the continued growth of Internet usage. In addition, we will have no access to alternative networks and services, on a timely basis if at all, in the event of any infrastructure disruption or failure. We have signed Bandwidth Provision and Server Hosting Agreements with China Unicom, China Telecom and China Mobile. Under these agreements, we established five main service provision centers to maintain most of our servers in Beijing. However, as there are limited telecommunication infrastructure service providers, we may not be able to lease additional bandwidth on acceptable terms, on a timely basis, or at all. If we are not able to lease additional bandwidth, the development of our business can be affected. The high cost of Internet access may limit the growth of the Internet in China and impede our growth. Access to the Internet in China remains relatively expensive, and may make it less likely for users to access and transact business over the Internet. Unfavorable rate developments could further decrease our visitor traffic and our ability to derive revenues from transactions over the Internet. To the extent we are unable to scale our systems to meet the increasing PRC Internet population, we will be unable to expand our user base and increase our attractiveness to advertisers and merchants. As Web page volume and traffic increase in China, we may not be able to scale our systems proportionately. To the extent we do not successfully address our capacity constraints, our operations may be severely disrupted, and we may not be able to expand our user base and increase our attractiveness to advertisers and merchants. Even if we scale our systems proportionately, any unforeseen increase in traffic may disrupt our operations and make it difficult for our users to visit our websites, or even cause users to be unable to access our websites at all, which could result in a loss of users. Unexpected network interruptions caused by system failures may result in reduced visitor traffic, reduced revenue and harm to our reputation. Our website operations are dependent upon Web browsers, Internet service providers, content providers and other website operators in China, which have experienced significant system failures and system outages in the past. Our users have in the past experienced difficulties due to system failures unrelated to our systems and services. Any system failure or inadequacy that causes interruptions in the availability of our services, or increases the response time of our services, as a result of increased traffic or otherwise, could reduce our user satisfaction, future traffic and our attractiveness to users and advertisers. For example, on February 14, 2009, our blog services were disconnected because of a power loss affecting China Unicom. 47 Table of Contents Our operations are vulnerable to natural disasters and other events, as we only have limited backup systems and do not maintain any backup servers outside of China. We have limited backup systems and have experienced system failures and electrical outages from time to time in the past, which have disrupted our operations. Most of our servers and routers are currently hosted in a single location within the premises of BTA. Our disaster recovery plan cannot fully ensure safety in the event of damage from fire, floods, typhoons, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events. If any of the foregoing occurs, we may experience a complete system shutdown. We do not carry any business interruption insurance. To improve the performance and to prevent disruption of our services, we may have to make substantial investments to deploy additional servers or one or more copies of our websites to mirror our online resources. Although we carry property insurance with low coverage limits, our coverage may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses, particularly with respect to loss of business and reputation that may occur. Our network operations may be vulnerable to hacking, viruses and other disruptions, which may make our products and services less attractive and reliable. Internet usage could decline if any well-publicized compromise of security occurs. “Hacking” involves efforts to gain unauthorized access to information or systems or to cause intentional malfunctions or loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment. Hackers, if successful, could misappropriate proprietary information or cause disruptions in our service. We may be required to expend capital and other resources to protect our website against hackers. We cannot assure you that any measure we may take will be effective. In addition, the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could expose us to a material risk of loss or litigation and possible liability, as well as materially damage our reputation and decrease our user traffic. Risks Related to China’s Regulation Environment Political, economic and social policies of the PRC government could affect our business. Substantially all of our business, operating assets, fixed assets and operations are located in China, and substantially all of our revenues are derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our business may be adversely affected by changes in political, economic or social conditions in China, adjustments in PRC government policies or changes in laws and regulations. The economy of China differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in a number of respects, including: • structure; • level of government involvement; • level of development; • level of capital reinvestment; • growth rate; • control of foreign exchange; and • methods of allocating resources. 48 Table of Contents Since 1949, China has been primarily a planned economy subject to a system of macroeconomic management. Although the PRC government still owns a significant portion of the productive assets in China, economic reform policies since the late 1970s have emphasized decentralization, autonomous enterprises and the utilization of market mechanisms. We cannot predict the future effects of the economic reform and macroeconomic measures adopted by the PRC government on our business or results of operations. Furthermore, the PRC government began to focus more attention on social issues in recent years and has promulgated or may promulgate additional laws or regulations in this area, which could affect our business in China. For example, in July 2007, the PRC government issued the new Employment Contract Law, effective January 1, 2008, providing increased employment protection to employees in China, which could cause us to incur additional staff costs in the future. The PRC legal system embodies uncertainties which could limit the legal protections available to us and you, or could lead to penalties on us. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. Our PRC operating subsidiaries, Sohu Software, Go2Map Software, Sohu Media, Sohu New Momentum, Wuxi Sohu New Momentum, Sohu Era, AmazGame, Gamespace, ICE WFOE and Sogou Technology are WFOEs, which are enterprises incorporated in China and wholly-owned or majority-owned by our indirect subsidiaries. Those WFOEs are subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China. In addition, all of our subsidiaries and VIEs are incorporated in China and subject to all applicable Chinese laws and regulations. Because of the relatively short period for enacting such a comprehensive legal system, it is possible that the laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us and other foreign investors, including you. Such uncertainties may also make it easier for others to infringe our intellectual property without significant cost, and new entrants to the market may tend to use gray areas to compete with us. For example, our Sogou browser has been blocked by Qihoo. In addition, uncertainties in the PRC legal system may lead to penalties imposed on us because of a difference in interpretation of the applicable law between the relevant governmental authority and us. For example, under current tax laws and regulations, we are responsible for paying business tax on a “Self-examination and Self-application” basis. However, since there is no clear guidance as to the applicability of certain areas of preferential tax treatment, we may be found to be in violation of the tax laws and regulations based on the interpretation of local tax authorities with regard to the scope of taxable services and the applicable tax rates, and therefore might be subject to penalties, including but not limited to monetary penalties. In addition, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the PRC legal system, particularly with regard to the Internet, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. If we are found to be in violation of current or future PRC laws, rules or regulations regarding Internet-related services and telecom-related activities, we could be subject to severe penalties. The PRC has enacted regulations that apply to Internet-related services and telecom-related activities. While many aspects of these regulations remain unclear, they purport to limit and require licensing of various aspects of the provision of Internet information and content, online advertising, online game, sponsored search, and value-added telecommunication services. 49 Table of Contents Under the Measures for the Administration of the Transmission of Audiovisual Programs over Internet and other Information Networks issued by the SARFT (the SARFT Measures), which came into effect on October 11, 2004, websites authorized to disseminate news must apply to the SARFT to obtain a Permit for the Network Transmission of Audiovisual Programs in order to disseminate streaming video online. In addition, SARFT issued the Catalogue of Classification of Internet Audio-Video Program Services (Trial) on April 1, 2010, pursuant to which the business of providing public program searching and watching services through the Internet to the public is classified as an Internet audio-video program service for which a Permit for the Network Transmission of Audiovisual Programs is required. On May 31, 2008, Sohu Internet received a Permit for the Network Transmission of Audiovisual Programs, issued by the SARFT. However, Sogou Information has not yet been granted such a license. If Sogou’s provision of video search services is later challenged by SARFT, we may be subject to severe penalties, including fines, or the suspension of our video search services or even our operations. In addition, Sohu’s online video businesses are operated under various websites, such as Sohu.com, focus.cn, 17173.com and sogou.com, but current PRC regulations are lack of clear provisions indicating whether it is permissible to provide video services over several websites that are owned by a single company under one permit and SARFT might claim that such operation under one permit is not allowed under the SARFT Measures. If SARFT were to make such a claim, we could face penalties from SARFT, such as fines, cancellation of our existing permit, or the forced discontinuation or restriction on our video services or even our operations. If we are ordered to suspend our services, our user traffic will be reduced and therefore our revenues will be negatively affected. In addition, the MOC has issued several sets of regulations with respect to online music search services, including the Provisional Regulations for the Administration of Online Culture (or Online Culture Regulation) effective on July 1, 2003 and further amended on July 1, 2004, and the Strengthening and Improving the Content Censorship of Online Music Content (or the MOC Notice) issued on September 3, 2009. The MOC has stipulated that the provision of online music search services constitutes disseminating music products via the Internet for which an Online Culture Permit is required. Sogou Information accordingly applied for and was granted such a permit in November, 2010. In addition, the MOC requires that domestic music products be registered with the MOC within 30 days after being made available online, while imported music products must be approved by the MOC before being made available online. Due to the lack of relevant implementation rules, search companies, including Sogou, were unable to complete registration and approval procedures with the MOC. However, on January 7, 2011, the MOC issued a Notice to Clean Up Illegal Online Music Product (or the new MOC Notice) to further strengthen the supervision over online music search, which reiterated that domestic music products must be registered with the MOC within 30 days after being made available online, while imported music products must be approved by the MOC before being made available online. In addition, the new MOC Notice specifically mentioned that 100 imported song that had never been approved by MOC needed to be removed immediately and deleted from the search results of online music search service providers beginning February 28, 2011. Compliance with the MOC’s filing and registration requirements for online music products may increase our costs of operation for sponsored search. Moreover, the 100 songs specified in the new MOC Notice may not be the final list. We are not able to register all of the online music products that appear in our search results. Therefore, if the MOC were to claim that we are not in compliance with MOC rules and regulation, we could face penalties, including but not limited to fines. In addition, our search results for online music products may be negatively affected, which in turn would have an adverse effect on our search business. We cannot assure you that we have fully complied with or will in the future always comply with the MOC Notice and MOC Statement regarding approval and filing procedures for online music products. Any such failure that caused restrictions on the availability of some music research results could reduce our user satisfaction, and our attractiveness to users and advertisers. Compliance with the requirements of the MOC Notice and the MOC Statement could make it difficult for us to maintain our music search business at an economically acceptable cost, and could force us to change our sponsored search business model. Furthermore, it is possible that MOC or another governmental authority in China will promulgate new laws, rules or regulations further restricting online music search business in the future. Any such restrictions could result in higher costs for our search engine operation, which would have an adverse effect on our profitability. 50 Table of Contents In addition, the PRC government may promulgate new laws, rules or regulations at any time. If current or future laws, rules or regulations regarding Internet-related activities are interpreted to be inconsistent with our ownership structure and/or our business operations, our business could be severely impaired and we could be subject to severe penalties. In order to comply with PRC regulatory requirements, we operate our main business through companies with which we have contractual relationships but in which we do not have an actual ownership interest. If our current ownership structure is found to be in violation of current or future PRC laws, rules or regulations regarding the legality of foreign investment in the PRC Internet sector, we could be subject to severe penalties. Various regulations in the PRC restrict or prohibit WFOEs from operating in specified industries such as Internet information, wireless, Internet access, and certain other industries. We are a Delaware corporation, and Sohu Hong Kong, our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary and the parent company of Sohu Software, Sohu Media, Sohu New Momentum, Wuxi Sohu New Momentum and Sohu Era, together with Changyou HK, our indirect majority-owned subsidiary and the parent company of AmazGame, ICE WFOE and Gamespace, are Hong Kong corporations and foreign persons under PRC law. In order to comply with PRC regulatory requirements, we conduct our Internet and value-added telecommunication operations solely in the PRC through our indirect wholly-owned, majority-owned subsidiaries and VIEs that incorporated in the PRC and owned by certain of our employees. We believe that our current ownership structure complies with all existing PRC laws, rules and regulations. However, considering the substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation of current PRC Internet laws and regulations, we cannot be sure that the PRC government would view our current ownership structure to be in compliance with PRC laws, rules and regulations. Accordingly, it is possible that the relevant PRC authorities could, at any time, assert that any portion or all of our PRC subsidiaries’ and VIEs’ existing or future ownership structure and businesses violate existing or future PRC laws, regulations or policies. It is also possible that new laws or regulations governing PRC Internet sector that have been adopted or may be adopted in the future will prohibit or restrict foreign investment in, or other aspects of, any of our PRC subsidiaries’ and VIEs’ current or proposed businesses and operations. In addition, any such new laws and regulations may be retroactively applied to us and our PRC subsidiaries and VIEs. If we or any of our PRC subsidiaries and VIEs were found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, the relevant PRC authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations, including, without limitation, the following: • levying fines; • confiscating our income; • revoking our licenses; • shutting down our servers and/or blocking our websites; • requiring us to restructure our ownership structure or operations; and • requiring us to discontinue any portion or all of its Internet and value-added telecommunication businesses. We may be unable to collect long-term loans to officers and employees or exercise management influence associated with High Century, Sohu Entertainment, GoodFeel, Gamease, Guanyou Gamespace and Sogou Information. As of December 31, 2010, Sohu had outstanding long-term loans of $14.2 million to Dr. Zhang, Sohu’s Chief Executive Officer and a major Sohu shareholder, and certain executive officer and employees. These long-term loans are used to finance investments in our VIEs High Century, Sohu Entertainment, GoodFeel, Gamease, Guanyou Gamespace, Shanghai ICE and Sogou Information, which are used to facilitate our participation in telecommunications, Internet content, online games and certain other businesses in China where foreign ownership is either prohibited or restricted. 51 Table of Contents The loan agreements contain provisions that, subject to PRC laws, (i) the loans can only be repaid to us by transferring the shares of High Century, Sohu Entertainment, GoodFeel, Gamease, Guanyou Gamespace, Shanghai ICE and Sogou Information to us; (ii) the shares of High Century, Sohu Entertainment, GoodFeel, Gamease, Guanyou Gamespace, Shanghai ICE and Sogou Information cannot be transferred without our approval; and (iii) we have the right to appoint all directors and senior management personnel of High Century, Sohu Entertainment, GoodFeel, Gamease, Guanyou Gamespace, Shanghai ICE and Sogou Information. Under the loan agreements the borrowers have pledged all of their shares in High Century, Sohu Entertainment, GoodFeel, Gamease, Guanyou Gamespace, Shanghai ICE and Sogou Information as collateral for the loans, and the loans bear no interest and are due on the earlier of a demand or such time as Dr. Zhang or one of the other employee borrowers, as the case may be, is not an employee of Sohu. Sohu does not intend to request repayment of the loans as long as PRC regulations prohibit it from directly investing in businesses being undertaken by the VIEs. Because these loans can only be repaid by the borrowers’ transferring the shares of the various entities, our ability to ultimately realize the effective return of the amounts advanced under these loans will depend on the profitability of High Century, Sohu Entertainment, GoodFeel, Gamease, Guanyou Gamespace, Shanghai ICE and Sogou Information and is therefore uncertain. In addition, to the extent that the VIEs have undistributed after tax net income, we will be required to pay individual income tax, at the tax rate of 20%, on behalf of the employees who hold interests in the VIEs when transferring the shareholding from other individuals, which may further increase the uncertainty involved for transferring shares of various entities. Furthermore, because of uncertainties associated with PRC law, ultimate enforcement of the loan agreements is uncertain. Accordingly, we may never be able to collect these loans or exercise influence over High Century, Sohu Entertainment, GoodFeel, Gamease, Guanyou Gamespace, Shanghai ICE and Sogou Information. We depend upon contractual arrangements with our VIEs for the success of our business and these arrangements may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct ownership of these businesses and may be difficult to enforce. Because we conduct our Internet operations mainly in the PRC, and are restricted or prohibited by the PRC government from owning Internet content or telecommunication operations in the PRC, we are dependent on our VIEs in which we have no direct ownership interest, to provide those services through contractual agreements between the parties. These arrangements may not be as effective in providing control over our Internet content or telecommunications operations as direct ownership of these businesses. For example, some of our subsidiaries and VIEs could fail to take actions required for our business, such as entering into content development contracts with potential content suppliers or failing to maintain the necessary permit for the content servers. If these VIEs fail to perform its obligations under these agreements, we may have to rely on legal remedies under PRC law. We cannot assure you that such remedies under PRC law would be effective or sufficient. The contractual arrangements between our subsidiaries and our VIEs may result in adverse tax consequences. PRC laws and regulations emphasize the requirement of an arm’s length basis for transfer pricing arrangements between related parties. The laws and regulations also require enterprises with related party transactions to prepare transfer pricing documentation to demonstrate the basis for determining pricing, the computation methodology and detailed explanations. Related party arrangements and transactions may be subject to challenge or tax inspection by PRC tax authorities. Under a tax inspection, if our transfer pricing arrangements between the China-based subsidiaries and VIEs are judged as tax avoidance, or related documentation does not meet the requirements, our China-based subsidiaries and VIEs may be subject to material adverse tax consequences, such as transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could result in a reduction, for PRC tax purposes, of adjustments recorded by VIEs, which could adversely affect us by (i) increasing VIE’s tax liabilities without reducing our subsidiaries’ tax liabilities, which could further result in interest being levied to us for unpaid taxes; or (ii) limiting the ability of our PRC companies to maintain preferential tax treatment and other financial incentives. 52 Table of Contents Even if we are in compliance with PRC governmental regulations relating to licensing and foreign investment prohibitions, the PRC government may prevent us from distributing, and we may be subject to liability for, content that it believes is inappropriate. The PRC has enacted regulations governing Internet access and the distribution of news and other information. In the past, the PRC government has stopped the distribution of information over the Internet that it believes to violate PRC law, including content that is obscene, incites violence, endangers national security, is contrary to the national interest or is defamatory. In addition, we may not publish certain news items, such as news relating to national security, without permission from the PRC government. Furthermore, the Ministry of Public Security has the authority to make any local Internet service provider block any website maintained outside the PRC at its sole discretion. Even if we comply with PRC governmental regulations relating to licensing and foreign investment prohibitions, if the PRC government were to take any action to limit or prohibit the distribution of information through our network or to limit or regulate any current or future content or services available to users on our network, our business would be harmed. We are also subject to potential liabilities for content on our websites that is deemed inappropriate and for any unlawful actions of our subscribers and other users of our systems under regulations promulgated by the MIIT, such potential liabilities including, but not limited to, the imposition of fines or even the shutting down of the website. Furthermore, we are required to delete content that clearly violates the laws of the PRC and report content that we suspect may violate PRC law. We may have difficulty determining the type of content that may result in liability for us and, if we are wrong, we may be prevented from operating our websites. Sohu.com Inc. may need to rely on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by Sohu.com Limited and Changyou, our wholly-owned subsidiary and majority-owned subsidiary, to fund any cash requirements we may have. Sohu.com Inc. may not be able to obtain cash from distributions to the extent such distributions are restricted by PRC law or future debt covenants. Sohu.com Inc. is a holding company with no operating assets other than investments in Chinese operating entities through our intermediate holding companies, Sohu.com Limited and Changyou, our wholly-owned subsidiary and majority-owned subsidiary in the Cayman Islands, and our VIEs. Sohu.com Inc. may need to rely on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by Sohu.com Limited and Changyou for the cash requirements in excess of any cash raised from investors and retained by Sohu.com Inc. If our China-based subsidiaries incur debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict our China-based subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us through the intermediate companies. In addition, PRC legal restrictions permit payment of dividends by Sohu Software, Go2Map Software, Sohu Media, Sohu New Momentum, Wuxi Sohu New Momentum, Sohu Era, AmazGame, ICE WFOE, Gamespace and Sogou Technology, only out of their net income, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Under PRC law, Sohu Software, Go2Map Software, Sohu Media, Sohu New Momentum, Wuxi Sohu New Momentum, Sohu Era, AmazGame, ICE WFOE, Gamespace and Sogou Technology, are also required to set aside 10% of their net income each year to fund certain reserve funds until these reserves equal 50% of the amount of paid-in capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. Our subsidiaries and VIEs in China are subject to restrictions on paying dividends or making other payments to our overseas entities. Any dividend received by Sohu.com Inc. would be subject to U.S. tax at 34% or 35%. Sohu.com Inc. may depend on Sohu.com Limited and Changyou dividend payments which are generated from our subsidiaries in China after they receive payments from our VIEs under various services and other arrangements. It is possible that our Chinese subsidiaries will not continue to receive the payments in accordance with our contracts with our VIEs. To the extent that the VIEs have undistributed after tax net income, we must pay tax on behalf of our employees who hold interests in the VIEs when the VIEs distribute dividends in the future. The current individual income tax rate is 20%. In addition, under PRC law, our Chinese subsidiaries are required to set aside at least 10% of their respective accumulated profits, up to 50% of their paid-in capital, to fund certain mandated reserve funds that are not payable or distributable as cash dividends. The PRC government also imposes controls on the convertibility of RMB into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currencies out of China. We may experience difficulties in completing the administrative procedures necessary to obtain and remit foreign currencies. If we or any of our subsidiaries are unable to receive all of the revenues from our operations through these contractual or dividend arrangements, we may be unable to effectively finance our operations or pay dividends on our shares. Furthermore, any dividends or any deemed dividends received by Sohu.com Inc. would be subject to 34% or 35%. U.S. Corporate Income Tax under the tax law of the United States. 53 Table of Contents We may not have exclusive rights over the marks that are crucial to our business, including but not limited to Sohu.com logos, Sohu Fox logo, 17173, www.Focus.com.cn, GoodFeel logos, Go2Map, TLBB, Blade Online, Changyou.com, DMD, cyou.com, TL logos and Sogou logos. We have applied for the registration of our key marks in the PRC, including but not limited to Sohu.com logos, Sohu Fox logo, 17173, www.focus.com.cn, GoodFeel logos, Go2Map, TLBB, Blade Online, ChangYou.com, DMD, cyou.com, TL logos, Sogou logos, and their corresponding Chinese version marks so as to establish and protect our exclusive rights to the marks. We have succeeded in registering the marks Sohu.com logos, Sohu Fox logo, 17173, www.focus.com.cn, GoodFeel logos, Go2Map, TLBB, ChangYou.com, cyou.com, TL logos, and Sogou logos in the PRC under certain classes. The applications for the registration of the other marks or some marks under other classes are still under examination by the Trademark Office of PRC. Completion of the registrations is subject to the Trademark Office of PRC’s determination that there are no prior rights in the PRC. Any rejection of these applications could adversely affect our rights to these marks. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties, and the expenses incurred in protecting our intellectual property rights, may adversely affect our business. We regard our copyrights, service marks, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property as critical to our success. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties may adversely affect our business and reputation. We rely on trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements with our employees, customers, business partners and others to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for third parties to obtain and use our intellectual property without authorization. For example, under the newly amended Patent Law of the PRC (promulgated by the NPC Standing Committee on December 27, 2008, and effective as of October 1, 2009), the State Council’s Patent Administration Department may grant a compulsory license to individuals or entities to use our patent, once our exploitation of the patent has been determined to be violate the antitrust laws. Furthermore, the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property in Internet-related industries are uncertain and still evolving. In particular, the laws of the PRC and certain other countries are uncertain or do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Moreover, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Future litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims, which may force us to incur substantial legal expenses and, if determined adversely against us, materially disrupt our business. We cannot be certain that our products, services and intellectual property used in our normal course of business do not or will not infringe valid patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. We have in the past been, are currently, and may in the future be, subject to claims and legal proceedings relating to the intellectual property of others in the ordinary course of our business. In particular, if we are found to have violated the intellectual property rights of others, we may be enjoined from using such intellectual property, may be ordered to pay a fine and may incur licensing fees or be forced to develop alternatives. We may incur substantial expenses in defending against these third party infringement claims, regardless of their merit. Successful infringement claims against us may result in substantial monetary liability or may materially disrupt the conduct of our business by restricting or prohibiting our use of the intellectual property in question. For example, during 2006 five United States movie companies commenced a lawsuit against us in the PRC alleging that a movie download service we had been providing infringed their copyrights in the movies. In December 2006, the court decided the case against us, and ordered us to pay damages of approximately $138,000 to the U.S. movie companies. In addition, in 2007 a writer brought a lawsuit against in China claiming that we violated his copyright to 190 SMS messages in 2007. The Chinese court decided the case against us, and we paid damages of approximately $13,000 to the writer. In addition, we provide search engine facilities capable of locating and accessing links to download MP3 music, movies, images and other multimedia files and/or other content hosted on third party websites, which may be protected by copyright law. In March 2008, we were sued by four major record companies, Sony BMG, Warner, Universal and Gold Label, which alleged that we provided music search links and download services that violated copyrights they owned. As of December 31, 2010, the lawsuits with these four record companies were still in process. Although an initial judgment has been in our favor as to most aspects of the case, both parties have the right to appeal to the higher court and therefore the judgment has not yet come into effect. We believe that the lawsuits will not be concluded at this stage of the proceedings, and that therefore we cannot predict the outcome or resolution of these claims, and cannot determine at this point to what extent the plaintiffs’ allegations are meritorious either factually or legally, nor can we predict whether the plaintiffs will be successful in these lawsuits. It is possible that these lawsuits could conclude with final judgments against us, or settlements prior to final judgment, that would require us to pay damages or royalties to the plaintiffs. 54 Table of Contents We may be subject to, and may expend significant resources in defending against claims based on the content and services we provide over all of our websites. As our services may be used to download and distribute information to others, there is a risk that claims may be made against us for defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement or other claims based on the nature and content of such information. Furthermore, we could be subject to claims for the online activities of our visitors and incur significant costs in their defense. In the past, claims based on the nature and content of information that was posted online by visitors have been made in the United States against companies that provide online services. We do not carry any liability insurance against such risks. We could be exposed to liability for the selection of listings that may be accessible through our websites or through content and materials that our visitors may post in classifieds, message boards, chat rooms or other interactive services. If any information provided through our services contains errors, third parties may make claims against us for losses incurred in reliance on the information. We also offer Web-based e-mail and subscription services, which expose us to potential liabilities or claims resulting from: • unsolicited e-mail; • lost or misdirected messages; • illegal or fraudulent use of e-mail; or • interruptions or delays in e-mail service. Investigating and defending any such claims may be expensive, even if they do not result in liability. Activities of Internet content providers are or will be subject to additional PRC regulations, which have not yet been put into effect. Our operations may not be consistent with these new regulations when put into effect, and, as a result, we could be subject to severe penalties. The MIIT has stated that the activities of Internet content providers are subject to regulation by various PRC government authorities, depending on the specific activities conducted by the Internet content provider. Various government authorities have stated publicly that they are in the process of preparing new laws and regulations that will govern these activities. The areas of regulation currently include online advertising, online news reporting, online publishing, provision of online or wireless music, online securities trading, the provision of industry-specific (e.g., drug-related) information over the Internet and foreign investment in value-added telecommunication services. For instance, the MOC issued “Several Opinions of Development and Supervision of Online Music” in November 2006. In accordance with the requirements of the MOC, we have submitted most of the online music which we distributed in the PRC online or through wireless to the MOC for censoring and recording in March 2007. We may be required to be responsible for supervising nonprofit users’ distribution of online music on our portal. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we may be fined. Other aspects of our online operations may be subject to regulations in the future. Our operations may not be consistent with these new regulations when put into effect and, as a result, we may be subject to severe penalties as discussed above. Regulation and censorship of information distribution in China may adversely affect our business. China has enacted regulations governing Internet access and the distribution of news and other information. Furthermore, the Propaganda Department of the Chinese Communist Party has been given the responsibility to censor news published in China to ensure, supervise and control a particular political ideology. In addition, the MIIT has published implementing regulations that subject online information providers to potential liability for contents included in their portals and the actions of subscribers and others using their systems, including liability for violation of PRC laws prohibiting the distribution of content deemed to be socially destabilizing. Furthermore, the MIIT may implement a requirement that users of blogs register under their real names. If such a regulation is implemented, our business may be negatively affected due to a decrease in the number of blog users. Furthermore, because many PRC laws, regulations and legal requirements with regard to the Internet are relatively new and untested, their interpretation and enforcement may involve significant uncertainty. In addition, the PRC legal system is a civil law system in which decided legal cases have limited binding force as legal precedents. As a result, in many cases a website operator may have difficulties determining the type of content that may subject it to liability. 55 Table of Contents Periodically, the Ministry of Public Security has stopped the distribution over the Internet of information which it believes to be socially destabilizing. The Ministry of Public Security has the authority to require any local Internet service provider to block any website maintained outside China at its sole discretion. If the PRC government were to take action to limit or eliminate the distribution of information through our portal or to limit or regulate current or future applications available to users of our portal, our business would be adversely affected. The State Secrecy Bureau, which is directly responsible for the protection of state secrets of all PRC government and Chinese Communist Party organizations, is authorized to block any website it deems to be leaking state secrets or failing to meet the relevant regulations relating to the protection of state secrets in the distribution of online information. Under the applicable regulations, we may be held liable for any content transmitted on our portal. Furthermore, where the transmitted content clearly violates the laws of the PRC, we will be required to delete it. Moreover, if we consider transmitted content suspicious, we are required to report such content. We must also undergo computer security inspections, and if we fail to implement the relevant safeguards against security breaches, we may be shut down. In addition, under recently adopted regulations, Internet companies which provide bulletin board systems, chat rooms or similar services, such as our company, must apply for the approval of the State Secrecy Bureau. As the implementing rules of these new regulations have not been issued, we do not know how or when we will be expected to comply, or how our business will be affected by the application of these regulations. We may be subject to the PRC government’s ongoing crackdown on Internet pornographic content. The Chinese government has stringent regulations on online pornographic information and has launched several crackdowns on Internet pornography in the last year. On December 4, 2009, the MIIT and other three government authorities jointly issued the Incentives Measures for Report of Pornographic, Obscene and Vulgar Messages on Internet and Mobile Media (or the Anti-Pornography Notice) to further crackdown on online pornography. Pursuant to this Anti-Pornography Notice, rewards of up to RMB10,000 will be provided to Internet users who report websites that feature pornography, and a committee has been established to review such reports to determine an appropriate award. We have deleted all Webpages with allegedly vulgar material from our relevant channels and communities. In addition, we have strengthened our internal censorship and supervision of links and content uploaded by the users. We have not, to date, received any penalty from the PRC government in this regard. However, there is no assurance that content considered vulgar by PRC government agencies will not appear in the future. In the event that we are accused by the government of hosting vulgar content, our reputation could be adversely affected. Our business may be adversely affected if we cannot obtain an online payment service license On June 14, 2010, the PBOC issued the Online Payment Measures, which went into effect on September 1, 2010. Under the Payment Measures, Online Payment Services are defined as the provision of capital transfer services by non-financial institutions acting as intermediaries, including services rendered in connection with network-based payments, issuance and settlement services for pre-paid cards and acquiring services for bank cards. The Payment Measures require all non-financial institutions engaging in Online Payment Services to obtain a Online Payment Service License from the PBOC. The Payment Measures provide a one-year grace period starting September 1, 2010. Failure to obtain an Online Payment License will lead to the termination of the right to provide online payment services. We have therefore prepared to apply for a Online Payment Service License. However, since the definition of “network-based payments” in the Payment Measures is vague, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain the required license. If we cannot obtain the licenses, our business will be adversely affected. Regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may limit our ability to acquire PRC companies and could adversely affect our business. In October 2005, SAFE promulgated Relevant Issues Concerning Foreign Exchange Control on Domestic Residents’ Corporate Financing and Roundtrip Investment Through Offshore Special Purpose Vehicles, or Circular 75, that states that if PRC residents use assets or equity interests in their PRC entities as capital contributions to establish offshore companies or inject assets or equity interests of their PRC entities into offshore companies to raise capital overseas, they must register with local SAFE branches with respect to their overseas investments in offshore companies. They must also file amendments to their registrations if their offshore companies experience material events involving capital variation, such as changes in share capital, share transfers, mergers and acquisitions, spin-off transactions, long-term equity or debt investments or uses of assets in China to guarantee offshore obligations. Under this regulation, their failure to comply with the registration procedures set forth in such regulation may result in restrictions being imposed on the foreign exchange activities of the relevant PRC entity, including the payment of dividends and other distributions to its offshore parent, as well as restrictions on the capital inflow from the offshore entity to the PRC entity. 56 Table of Contents We have requested our shareholders who are PRC residents to make the necessary applications, filings and amendments as required under Circular 75 and other related rules. We attempt to comply, and attempt to ensure that our shareholders who are subject to these rules comply, with the relevant requirements. However, we cannot provide any assurances that all of our shareholders who are PRC residents will comply with our request to make or obtain any applicable registrations or comply with other requirements required by Circular 75 or other related rules. Any future failure by any of our shareholders who is a PRC resident, or controlled by a PRC resident, to comply with relevant requirements under this regulation could subject us to fines or sanctions imposed by the PRC government, including restrictions on our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends or make distributions to us and our ability to increase our investment in these subsidiaries. We may be subject to fines and legal sanctions if we or our employees who are PRC citizens fail to comply with PRC regulations relating to employee stock options granted by overseas listed companies to PRC citizens. On December 25, 2006, the PBOC issued the Administration Measures on Individual Foreign Exchange Control, and its Implementation Rules were issued by SAFE on January 5, 2007, which both have taken effect on February 1, 2007. Under these regulations, all foreign exchange matters involved in an employee stock holding plan, stock option plan or similar plan in which PRC citizens’ participation requires approval from the SAFE or its authorized branch. On March 28, 2007, SAFE promulgated the Application Procedure of Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Holding Plan or Stock Option Plan of Overseas Listed Company, or the Stock Option Rule. Under the Stock Option Rule, PRC citizens who are granted stock options or restricted share units, or issued restricted shares by an overseas publicly listed company are required, through a PRC agent or PRC subsidiary of such overseas publicly listed company, to complete certain other procedures and transactional foreign exchange matters upon the examination by, and approval of, SAFE. We and our employees who are PRC citizens and have been granted stock options or restricted share units, or issued restricted shares are subject to the Stock Option Rule. We and our employees intend to make such application and complete all the requisite procedures in accordance with the Stock Option Rule. However, we cannot assure you that we can complete all the procedures in a timely manner. If the relevant PRC regulatory authority determines that our PRC employees who hold such options, restricted share units or restricted shares or their PRC employer fail to comply with these regulations, such employees and their PRC employer may be subject to fines and other legal sanctions. It may be difficult to enforce any civil judgments against us or our Board of Directors or officers, because most of our operating and/or fixed assets are located outside the United States. Although we are incorporated in the State of Delaware, most of our operating and fixed assets are located in the PRC. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to enforce judgments outside the United States obtained in actions brought against us in the United States, including actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States or of the securities laws of any state of the United States. In addition, certain of our directors and officers (principally based in the PRC) and all or a substantial portion of their assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon those directors and officers, or to enforce against them or us judgments obtained in United States courts, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States or of the securities laws of any state of the United States. We have been advised by our PRC counsel that, in their opinion, there is doubt as to the enforceability in the PRC, in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of United States courts, of civil liabilities predicated solely upon the federal securities laws of the United States or the securities laws of any state of the United States. If the status of the PRC subsidiary and VIE as “New and High Technology Enterprises” or “Software Enterprise” are revoked, we may have to pay additional taxes to make up any previously unpaid tax and may be subject to a higher tax rate, which may materially and adversely affect our results of operations. In March 2007, the Chinese government enacted the Corporate Income Tax Law, and promulgated related regulation Implementing Regulations for the PRC Corporate Income Tax Law. The law and regulation went into effect on January 1, 2008. The Corporate Income Tax Law imposes, among other things, a unified income tax rate of 25% for both domestic and foreign invested enterprises. New and High Technology Enterprises (NHTEs) will enjoy a favorable tax rate of 15%. The Implementing Regulations for the PRC Corporate Income Tax Law also emphasizes that the ownership of “core proprietary intellectual property” is essential to qualification for this preferential tax rate. 57 Table of Contents The Corporate Income Tax Law also provides a five-year transitional period for those entities established before March 16, 2007, which enjoyed a favorable income tax rate of less than 25% under the previous income tax laws, to gradually change their rates to 25%. In addition, the Corporate Income Tax Law provides grandfather treatment for enterprises which were qualified as NHTEs under the previous income tax laws and were established before March 16, 2007, if they continue to meet the criteria for NHTEs after January 1, 2008. The grandfather provision allows these enterprises continue to enjoy their unexpired tax holiday provided by the previous income tax laws and rules. In the year of 2010, Sohu Era, Sohu Media, Sogou Technology, Sohu Internet and Sogou Information were NHTEs and Sohu Media, Sogou Technology and Sogou Information enjoyed their unexpired tax holidays. In addition, the Corporate Income Tax Law provides that “Software Enterprise” can enjoy an income tax exemption for two years beginning with their first profitable year and a 50% tax reduction to rate of 12.5% for the subsequent three years. In the year of 2010, AmazGame and Gamease, conducting our online game business, were Software Enterprises and enjoyed 12.5% tax rate. As the new Corporate Income Tax Law and its implementation rules only recently went into effect, there are uncertainties on their future interpretation and implementation. We cannot assure you that the NHTE and Software Enterprise qualifications of those operating entities will not be challenged by higher level tax authorities and be repealed, or that there will not be any future implementation rules that are inconsistent with current interpretation of the Corporate Income Tax Law. If those operating entities cannot qualify for such income tax holidays, our effective income tax rate will be increased significantly and we may have to pay additional income tax to make up the previously unpaid tax, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Dividends we receive from our operating subsidiaries located in the PRC are subject to PRC withholding tax. The Corporate Income Tax Law imposes, among other things, that a maximum withholding tax rate of 20% may be applicable to dividends payable to non-PRC investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” to the extent that such dividends are derived from sources within the PRC, and the State Council has reduced such rate to 10% through the Implementing Regulations for the PRC Corporate Income Tax Law. A lower withholding tax rate will be applied if there is a tax treaty arrangement between China and the jurisdiction of the foreign holding companies, such as Hong Kong. Most of our China-based subsidiaries are invested by immediate foreign holding companies in Hong Kong. All of these foreign-invested enterprises are subjected to the withholding tax from January 1, 2008. Under the Arrangement Between the PRC and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region on the Avoidance of Double Taxation and Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income and Capital (or China-HK Tax Arrangement), which became effective on January 1, 2007, the dividend withholding tax rate may be reduced to 5%, if a Hong Kong resident enterprise is considered a non-PRC resident enterprise and holds at least 25% of the equity interests in the PRC enterprise distributing the dividends, subject to approval of the PRC local tax authority. However, if the Hong Kong resident enterprise is not considered to be the beneficial owner of such dividends under applicable PRC tax regulations, such dividends may remain subject to withholding tax at a rate of 10%. On October 27, 2009, the PRC State Administration of Taxation issued a Notice on How to Understand and Determine the Beneficial Owners in Tax Agreement (or Circular 601), which provides guidance on determining whether an enterprise is a “beneficial owner” under China’s tax treaties and tax arrangements. Circular 601 provides that, in order to be a beneficial owner, an entity generally must be engaged in substantive business activities. It also sets forth a list of factors, the existence of which generally does not provide support that the treaty resident is a beneficial owner. An agent or conduit company, which refers to a company that is set up for the purpose of avoiding or reducing taxes or transferring or accumulating profits, will not be regarded as a beneficial owner and, therefore, will not qualify for treaty benefits such as preferential dividend withholding tax rates. If any of our Hong Kong subsidiaries is, in the light of Circular 601, considered to be a non-beneficial owner for purpose of the China-HK Tax Arrangement, any dividends paid to it by any of our PRC subsidiaries would not qualify for the preferential dividend withholding tax rate of 5%, but rather would be subject to the usual New CIT Law rate of 10%. In the fourth quarter of 2008, AmazGame declared a dividend to its immediate holding company in Hong Kong and we accrued a withholding tax of approximately $5.0 million based on a 5% withholding tax rate. Except for this, since we intend to reinvest our earnings to further expand our businesses in China, our foreign-invested enterprises do not intend to declare dividends to their immediate foreign holding companies in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, as of December 31, 2010, we have not recorded any other withholding tax on the retained earnings of our foreign-invested enterprises in China. 58 Table of Contents We may be deemed a PRC resident enterprise under the Corporate Income Tax Law and be subject to PRC taxation on our worldwide income. The Corporate Income Tax Law provides that enterprises established outside of China whose “de facto management bodies” are located within China are considered “resident enterprises” and are generally subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate on their worldwide income (including dividend income received from subsidiaries). Under the Implementing Regulations for the Corporate Income Tax Law, “de facto management body” is defined as a body that has material and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel and human resources, finances and treasury, and acquisition and disposition of properties and other assets of an enterprise. Although substantially all of our operational management is currently based in the PRC, it is unclear whether PRC tax authorities would require (or permit) us to be treated as a PRC-resident enterprise. If we were treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes, we will be subject to PRC tax on our worldwide income at the 25% uniform tax rate, which could have an impact on our effective tax rate and an adverse effect on our net income and the results of operations, although dividends distributed from our PRC subsidiaries to us could be exempted from Chinese dividend withholding tax, since such income is exempted under the new Corporate Income Tax Law for PRC-resident recipients. Dividends payable by us to our foreign investors and profits on the sale of our shares may be subject to tax under PRC tax laws. Under the Implementing Regulations for the Corporate Income Tax Law, PRC income tax at the rate of 10% is applicable to dividends payable to investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” not having an establishment or place of business in the PRC, or which do have such establishment or place of business but the relevant income is not effectively connected with the establishment or place of business, to the extent that such dividends have their sources within the PRC. Similarly, any profits realized through the transfer of shares by such investors are also subject to 10% PRC income tax if such profits are regarded as income derived from sources within the PRC. If we are considered a PRC “resident enterprise,” it is unclear whether dividends we pay with respect to our share, or the profits you may realize from the transfer of our shares, would be treated as income derived from sources within the PRC and be subject to PRC tax. If we are required under the Implementing Regulations for the Corporate Income Tax Law to withhold PRC income tax on dividends payable to our non-PRC investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” or if you are required to pay PRC income tax on the transfer of our shares, the value of your investment in our shares may be materially and adversely affected. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize our revenues effectively. Substantially all of our revenues and operating expenses are denominated in RMB. The RMB is currently freely convertible under the “current account”, which includes dividends, trade and service related foreign exchange transactions, but not under the “capital account”, which includes foreign direct investment. Currently, our China-based subsidiaries may purchase foreign exchange for settlement of “current account transactions”, including payment of dividends, without the approval of the State Administration for Foreign Exchange (or SAFE). Our China-based subsidiaries may also retain foreign exchange in its current account (subject to a ceiling approved by the SAFE) to satisfy foreign exchange liabilities or to pay dividends. However, the relevant PRC governmental authorities may limit or eliminate our ability to purchase and retain foreign currencies in the future. Since a significant amount of our future revenues will be in the form of RMB, the existing and any future restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize revenue generated in RMB to fund our business activities outside China, if any, or expenditures denominated in foreign currencies. Foreign exchange transactions under the capital account are still subject to limitations and require approvals from the SAFE. This could affect our China-based subsidiaries’ ability to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing, including by means of loans or capital contributions from us. 59 Table of Contents We may suffer currency exchange losses if the RMB depreciates relative to the U.S. Dollar. Our reporting currency is the U.S. Dollar. However, substantially all of our revenues are denominated in RMB. In July 2005, China reformed its exchange rate regime by establishing a managed floating exchange rate regime based on market supply and demand with reference to a basket of currencies. The RMB is no longer pegged to the U.S. dollar and the exchange rate will have some flexibility. Hence, considering the floating exchange rate regime, if the RMB depreciates relative to the U.S. Dollar, our revenues as expressed in our U.S. Dollar financial statements will decline in value. On May 19, 2007, the PBOC announced a policy to expand the maximum daily floating range of RMB trading prices against the U.S. dollar in the inter-bank spot foreign exchange market from 0.3% to 0.5%. While the international reactions to the RMB revaluation and widening of the RMB’s daily trading band have generally been positive, with the increased floating range of the RMB’s value against foreign currencies, the RMB may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar or other foreign currencies in the long term, depending on the fluctuation of the basket of currencies against which it is currently valued. On June 19, 2010, the PBOC announced that it has decided to proceed further with the reform of the RMB exchange rate regime to enhance the flexibility of the RMB exchange rate and that emphasis would be placed on reflecting market supply and demand with reference to a basket of currencies. While so indicating its intention to make the RMB’s exchange rate more flexible, the PBOC ruled out any sharp fluctuations in the currency or a one-off adjustment. Shortly after this announcement, the center point of the currency’s official trading band broke through the 6.8 barrier to hit 6.7969 to the U.S. dollar; it broke through the 6.6 barrier to hit 6.5891 in January 2011; the appreciation is 3% in total, which is the highest center point of the past five years. In addition, there are very limited hedging transactions available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure, if at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert RMB into U.S. Dollars. Risks Related to Our Stocks The market price of our common stock has been and will likely continue to be volatile. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, which may make it difficult for stockholders to sell shares of our common stock when desired or at attractive prices. The market price of our common stock has been volatile and is likely to continue to be so. The initial public offering price of our common stock in July 2000 was $13.00 per share. The trading price of our common stock subsequently dropped to a low of $0.52 per share on April 9, 2001. During 2010, the trading price of our common stock ranged from a low of $40.05 per share to a high of $80.94 per share. On February 25, 2011, the closing price of our common stock was $82.45 per share. In addition, the NASDAQ Global Select Market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for the securities of technology companies, and particularly Internet-related companies. The price for our common stock may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new products and media properties by us or our competitors, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us, and news reports relating to trends in our markets or general economic conditions. Additionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, all of whom have been granted share options or other stock awards. We are controlled by a small group of our existing stockholders, whose interests may differ from other stockholders. Our Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Zhang, beneficially owns approximately 19% of the outstanding shares of our common stock and is our largest stockholder. Our Chief Executive Officer, together with our other executive officers and members of our Board of Directors, beneficially own approximately 21% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Accordingly these stockholders acting together will have significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the stockholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations, the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. They will also have significant influence in preventing or causing a change in control. In addition, without the consent of these stockholders, we may be prevented from entering into transactions that could be beneficial to us. The interests of these stockholders may differ from the interests of the other stockholders. 60 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, our certificate of incorporation and Sohu’s Stockholder Rights Plan could delay or deter a change in control. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, as well as various provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, may make it more difficult to acquire our company or effect a change in control of our company, even if an acquisition or change in control would be in the interest of our stockholders or if an acquisition or change in control would provide our stockholders with a premium for their shares over then current market prices. For example, our certificate of incorporation provides for the division of our Board of Directors into two classes with staggered two-year terms and provides that stockholders have no right to take action by written consent and may not call special meetings of stockholders, each of which may make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our board in connection with, or obtain any necessary stockholder approval for, a proposed acquisition or change in control. In addition, we have adopted a stockholder rights plan under the terms of which, in general, if a person or group acquires more than 20% of the outstanding shares of common stock, all other Sohu stockholders would have the right to purchase securities from Sohu at a substantial discount to those securities’ fair market value, thus causing substantial dilution to the holdings of the person or group which acquires more than 20%. The stockholder rights plan may inhibit a change in control and, therefore, could adversely affect the stockholders’ ability to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for the common stock in connection with such a transaction. The power of our Board of Directors to designate and issue shares of preferred stock could have an adverse effect on holders of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to designate and issue one or more series of preferred stock, having rights and preferences as the board may determine, and any such designations and issuances could have an adverse effect on the rights of holders of common stock. Risks Related to Our Financing Activities Changyou’s initial public offering could have an adverse impact on Sohu. On April 7, 2009, Changyou completed its initial public offering on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. The impact of this offering on us could include the following factors that could be considered to be adverse: • Share-based compensation expense will increase as the unvested restricted share units granted to Changyou executive officers and employees begin to vest under a share-based award arrangement. • Restricted share units granted to Changyou executive officers and employees will be dilutive securities for the purposes of computing diluted earnings per share of Changyou. This will have a corresponding impact on the computation of Sohu’s diluted earnings per share. • As a separate publicly listed company, Changyou may have interests that differ from, or may even be contrary to, those of Sohu. Although we have entered into various agreements covering transactions between Changyou and us, we may have disagreements on certain matters. Our business might be adversely affected by such disagreements. • We cannot assure you that Changyou’s initial public offering will result in increase for our shareholders in the market value of their holdings in our company sufficient to offset the reduction in our interest in Changyou resulting from the initial public offering. In addition, the market price of our common stock could be volatile than our common stock would have been if the initial public offering had not occurred. 61 Table of Contents • As Sohu Group has two listed companies, Sohu.com Inc. and Changyou.com Limited, which are regarded as separate legal entities for U.S. tax purposes, certain transactions between these two companies as well as between their subsidiaries and VIEs might expose Sohu.com Inc. to 34% or 35% U.S. tax. Moreover, certain transactions of Changyou and its subsidiaries and VIEs, for example, investing in U.S. properties, might also expose Sohu.com Inc. to the U.S. tax risk that these will be treated as taxable transactions. • If Changyou pays dividends, as one of the shareholders of Changyou, Sohu.com Inc. might be subject to U.S. tax at 34% or 35% for the dividends received. • Under certain circumstances, when Sohu sells Changyou American depositary shares originally held by Sohu at a price higher than its U.S. tax basis, a portion of the proceeds will be subject to U.S. tax at 34% or 35%. Sogou’s latest equity financing could have an adverse effect on Sohu. Sogou, one of our subsidiaries, completed a $48 million equity financing on October 22, 2010, pursuant to which Alibaba Investment Limited (“Alibaba”), China Web Search (HK) Limited (“China Web”), an investment vehicle of Yunfeng Fund, LP and Photon Group Limited (“Photon”), the investment fund of our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Dr. Charles Zhang, each hold approximately 10%, 6% and 16% of the outstanding share capital of Sogou on a fully-diluted basis. After the equity financing, our interest in Sogou was significantly diluted, which will result in a corresponding reduction in our income from the Sogou business. Furthermore, as Sogou is no longer a wholly-owned subsidiary of us, it is possible that Sohu’s and Sogou’s interests could diverge in the future as Sohu may need to consider the interests of other shareholders of Sogou. If Sogou’s interests differs from, or are contrary to, those of Sohu, our business operations may be adversely affected. In addition, if our sponsored search business does not break even or achieve profitability before the funds raised in Sogou’s recent financing have been exhausted and we are unable to raise additional capital from our existing Sogou investors or different investors, we could be forced to suspend the operation of our sponsored search business and, even if we were able to raise additional capital our interest in Sogou would be further diluted. Moreover, since Sohu no longer holds 100% of Sogou, certain transactions between Sohu and Sogou, as well as between their subsidiaries and VIEs, might expose Sohu.com Inc. to 34% or 35% U.S. corporate income tax. Moreover, certain transactions entered into by Sogou and its subsidiaries and VIEs, such as investing in U.S. properties, might expose Sohu.com Inc. to the risk that these will be treated as transactions subject to U.S. tax. If Sogou were to pay a dividend to its shareholders, Sohu, as one of the shareholders of Sogou, could be subject to U.S. corporate income tax at 34% or 35% on the portion of the dividend it received. Risks Related to Changyou.com Limited The following risk factors were included in the annual report on Form 20-F of Changyou.com Limited (“Changyou”) for the year ended December 31, 2010. Changyou’s limited operating history makes evaluating its business and prospects difficult. Changyou was incorporated on August 6, 2007 in the Cayman Islands as an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Sohu.com Inc. On December 1, 2007, Sohu transferred all of its MMORPG business to Changyou. Changyou launched three MMORPGs when it was still a business unit of the Sohu Group, including Knight Online, or KO in June 2003, BO in October 2004 and TLBB in May 2007, of which KO and BO are licensed games. Changyou terminated the operation of KO in November 2006 when its license expired. Changyou developed TLBB in-house. TLBB generated a substantial majority of Changyou’s revenues for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010. Changyou’s limited operating history may not provide a meaningful basis for you to evaluate its business and prospects. Furthermore, Changyou was a business unit within the Sohu Group prior to its reorganization and had no experience running its business as a separate, stand-alone company. Changyou’s operating history as a separate, stand-alone company is still relatively short, its business strategy has not been proven over time and we cannot be certain that Changyou will be able to successfully expand its MMORPG business. In addition, you should not place undue reliance on Changyou’s financial statements included in this annual report that are for the periods prior to December 2007, as such financial statements may not be representative of Changyou’s financial condition and results of operations as they would have been if Changyou had been a separate, stand-alone company. 62 Table of Contents You should also consider additional risks and uncertainties that may be experienced by early stage companies operating in a rapidly developing and evolving industry. Some of these risks and uncertainties relate to Changyou’s ability to: • develop or license new MMORPGs that are appealing to game players and meet its expected timetable for launches of new games; • raise its brand recognition and game player loyalty; and • successfully adapt to an evolving business model. Changyou may not be successful in addressing the risks listed above, which may materially and adversely affect its business prospects. Changyou is not likely to sustain its recent growth rate. Changyou’s revenues have grown significantly in a relatively short period of time, in particular after its launch of TLBB in May 2007. Primarily due to the commercial success of TLBB, Changyou’s revenues grew from $1.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2007 before the launch of TLBB to $58.4 million for the three months ended December 31, 2008 and $70.7 million for the three months ended December 31, 2009 and $91.7 million for the three months ended December 31, 2010, representing an increase of 35.5 times over seven quarters and 43.2 times over eleven quarters and 56.3 times over fifteen quarters, and its net income grew from a net loss of $1.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2007 to net income of $29.1 million for the three months ended December 31, 2008 and $38.9 million for the three months ended December 31, 2009 and $47.8 million for the three months ended December 31, 2010. Changyou is not likely to sustain similar growth rate in revenues or net income in future periods due to a number of factors, including, among others, the greater difficulty of growing at sustained rates from a larger revenue base, the uncertain level of popularity of its future games, the potential need to expend greater amounts in order to develop or acquire new games, and the potential increases in its costs and expenses as a separate, stand-alone public company. Accordingly, you should not rely on the results of any prior period as an indication of Changyou’s future financial and operating performance. Changyou may be adversely affected by the recent global crisis in the financial services and credit markets. Changyou relies on the spending of its game players for its revenues, which may in turn depend on the players’ level of disposable income, perceived future earnings capabilities and willingness to spend. The growth of China’s economy experienced a slowdown after the second quarter of 2007, when the quarterly growth rate of China’s gross domestic product reached 11.9%, slowing to as low as 6.2% for the first quarter of 2009. A number of factors contributed to this slowdown, including appreciation of the RMB, which adversely affected China’s exports, and tightening macroeconomic measures and monetary policies adopted by the PRC government aimed at preventing overheating of China’s economy and controlling China’s high level of inflation. The slowdown was further exacerbated by the global crisis in the financial services and credit markets that began in 2008 and has resulted in extreme volatility and dislocation of the global capital markets. Although the growth rate of China’s gross domestic product accelerated and reached 11.9% in the first quarter of 2010, the growth rate has since slowed down to 9.6% in the third quarter of 2010. It is uncertain whether China’s recent recovery in economic growth is sustainable and whether the slower growth that China’s economy experienced in 2008 and 2009 could return in the near future. It is uncertain how long the global crisis in the financial services and credit markets will continue and how much adverse impact it will continue to have on the global economy in general and the economies in China and other jurisdictions where Changyou licenses or operates its games in particular. If the game players reduce their spending on playing MMORPGs due to such uncertain economic conditions, Changyou’s business may be adversely affected. 63 Table of Contents Changyou currently depends on TLBB for a substantial majority of its revenues. Any decrease in TLBB’s popularity may materially and adversely affect the operating results of Changyou. Changyou currently relies on its in-house developed MMORPG, TLBB, for a substantial majority of its revenues. Changyou launched TLBB in May 2007, and cannot guarantee how long TLBB will continue to sustain its current level of popularity. To prolong this game’s lifespan, Changyou needs to continually improve and update it on a timely basis with new features that appeal to existing game players and attract new game players, and to market these new features. Despite its efforts to improve TLBB, the game players may nevertheless lose interest in the game over time. See “- Changyou may not be successful in operating and improving our games to satisfy the changing demands of game players.” If Changyou fails to improve and update TLBB on a timely basis, or if its competitors introduce more popular games catering to its game player base, which could include games adapted from other novels written by Louis Cha, TLBB may lose its popularity, which could materially decrease Changyou’s revenues. Furthermore, if there are any interruptions in TLBB’s operations due to unexpected server interruptions, network failures or other factors, game players may be prevented or deterred from making purchases of virtual items, which may also result in significant decreases in Changyou’s revenues. Changyou expects to rely on MMORPGs as its primary source of revenue. Any adverse trend affecting MMORPGs may materially and adversely affect Changyou’s business. Changyou entered into a Non-Competition Agreement with Sohu which prohibits it, during the non-competition period, from engaging in certain businesses, including the development and operation of online games other than MMORPGs, that Sohu conducted or contemplated conducting as of the date of the prospectus for Changyou’s initial public offering. As a result, during such non-competition period, Changyou will not be able to diversify its business into businesses, other than MMORPGs, that Sohu was currently conducting, or contemplated conducting, as of the date of the prospectus for its initial public offering, even if such businesses present growth opportunities for it. In addition, the Non-Competition Agreement does not prohibit Sohu from engaging in the development and operation of online games other than MMORPGs, even during the non-competition period. If Changyou decides to develop and operate online games other than MMORPGs that are not prohibited under the Non-Competition Agreement, such other online games may face competition from other online games, including those developed and/or operated by Sohu. Changyou may not be successful in operating and improving its games to satisfy the changing demands of game players. Changyou depends on purchase and continual consumption of virtual items by its game players to generate revenues, which in turn depends on the continued attractiveness of its games to the game players and their satisfactory game-playing experience. Changyou provides support for its games and collect game players’ feedback on their game-playing experience in order to resolve any programming flaws or other game operational issues in a timely manner. Changyou also uses software and systems to monitor game players’ preferences in order to develop and improve game features and virtual items in a way that is attractive to its game players. Changyou continues to improve its games through regular updates as well as periodic major enhancements using expansion packs. However, Changyou cannot assure that its efforts will be effective in eliminating program errors associated with its games, satisfying game player demands, or retaining the continued attractiveness of its games. For example: • Changyou may fail to provide game updates and expansion packs in a timely manner due to technologies, resources or other factors; • Changyou’s game updates and expansion packs may contain program errors, and their installation may create other unforeseen issues that adversely affect the game-playing experience; • Changyou may fail to timely respond and/or resolve complaints from its game players; • Changyou may fail to eliminate computer “bots,” which can disrupt its games’ smooth operation and reduce the attractiveness of our games; and • Changyou’s game updates and expansion packs may change rules or other aspects of its games that its game players do not welcome, resulting in reduction of peak concurrent users and/or average concurrent users of its games. 64 Table of Contents The failure to address the above-mentioned issues could adversely affect the game-playing experience of Changyou’s game players, damage the reputation of its games, shorten the lifespan of its games, and eventually result in the loss of game players and a decrease in its revenues. Furthermore, for the games licensed from third parties, Changyou may not have access to the game source codes during the initial period of the license or at all. Without the source codes, Changyou has to rely on the licensors to provide updates and enhancements during the initial period, giving Changyou less control over the quality and timeliness of updates and enhancements. If the game players are not satisfied with the level of services they receive, they may choose to not play the games, leading to a decrease in Changyou’s revenues. Changyou may fail to launch new games according to its timetable, and its games may not be commercially successful, or may attract game players away from its existing games. Changyou must introduce new games that can generate additional revenue and diversify its revenue source in order to remain competitive. Changyou has several games in the pipeline, including DMD, LAW and others. Changyou expects to begin open beta testing of DMD and LAW in 2011. Changyou is developing DMD in-house and it has licensed LAW from third-party developers. Changyou will not generate any meaningful revenue from a game until it enters open beta testing. However, Changyou cannot assure that it will be able to meet its timetable for new game launches. A number of factors, including technical difficulties, lack of sufficient game development personnel and other resources, relevant authorities’ approvals and adverse developments in the relationship between Changyou and the licensors of its new licensed games could result in delayed launching of Changyou’s new games. In addition, Changyou cannot assure that its new games will be as well received in the market as TLBB, and you should not use TLBB as an indication of the commercial success of Changyou’s future games. There are many factors that may adversely affect the popularity of Changyou’s new games. For example, Changyou may fail to anticipate and adapt to future technical trends, new business models and changed game player preferences and requirements, fail to effectively plan and organize marketing and promotion activities, or fail to differentiate its new games from its existing games. If the new games Changyou introduces are not commercially successful, Changyou may not be able to recover its product development costs and sales and marketing expenses, which can be significant. In addition, Changyou’s new games may attract game players away from its existing games. In particular, DMD is an MMORPG based on a novel written by Louis Cha, the same author of “Tian Long Ba Bu,” based on which Changyou developed TLBB. Changyou cannot assure that TLBB game players will not be attracted to play DMD instead of TLBB after DMD’s launch. If this occurred, it would decrease Changyou’s existing games’ player bases, which could in turn make these games less attractive to other game players, resulting in decreased revenues from its existing games. Game players of Changyou’s existing games may also spend less money to purchase virtual items in the new games than they would have spent if they had continued playing the existing games, which could materially and adversely affect the total revenues of Changyou. Changyou’s business may not succeed in a highly competitive market. Competition in the online game market in China is becoming increasingly intense. For example, according to data from the 2010 China Online Game White Paper issued by the Ministry of Culture of the People’s Republic of China, or MOC, 23 large online game companies launched 123 new games in 2010, accounting for 49% of the total new games launched during the year. There were four online game companies, Perfect World, Giant, Kingsoft and NetDragon, that successfully listed their shares on NASDAQ, the New York Stock Exchange or the Hong Kong Stock Exchange in the second half of 2007 alone, adding to the previously listed public companies focusing on the online game market in China, such as NetEase, Tencent and The9 Limited, most of which focus on MMORPGs. In September 2009, Shanda, which engages in the online game business, was carved out from Shanda Interactive Entertainment Limited and completed an initial public offering on NASDAQ. In 2010, Shenzhen ZQGame Co., Limited listed its shares on the Growth Enterprises Market board of the Shenzhen Stock Exchange in the PRC, becoming the first China-based online game company listed domestically in China. Moreover, there are many venture-backed private companies focusing on online game development, and MMORPG development in particular, further intensifying the competition. Recently, many of Changyou’s competitors have been aggressively hiring talent for game development, increasing spending on marketing for games and bidding for licenses of games. Changyou has also observed that there are some online games operated in China that include similar elements of design and game concepts to those of TLBB, which could have an adverse effect on the potential for increases in the number of players of TLBB. Increased competition in the online game market may make it difficult for Changyou to retain its existing employees and attract new employees, and to sustain its growth rate. Furthermore, Changyou also faces intense competition for cost-effective marketing resources for online games, such as online game-related websites, which could drive up its marketing costs and decrease the effectiveness of its marketing campaigns. 65 Table of Contents Changyou has a history of net losses, which might occur again in the future. Changyou incurred net losses from the inception of its business until the third quarter of 2007. Changyou cannot assure that it can remain profitable or avoid net losses in the future or that there will not be any earnings or revenue declines for any future quarterly or other periods. Changyou expects that its operating expenses will increase as it grows its business, including significantly increasing its headcount and expending substantial resources for product development and marketing, and as it operates as a separate, stand-alone company. As a result, any decrease or delay in generating revenues could result in material operating losses. Changyou’s operating results for a particular period could fall below its expectations or the expectations of investors or research analysts, resulting in a decrease in the price of its ADSs. Changyou’s operating results may vary significantly from period to period as a result of factors beyond its control, such as the slowdown in China’s economic growth between the third quarter of 2007 and the first quarter of 2009 caused in part by the recent severe global crisis in the financial services and credit markets, and may be difficult to predict for any given period. Changyou’s past results may not be indicative of its future performance and its quarterly results may not be indicative of its full year results. If Changyou’s operating results for any period fall below its expectations or the expectations of investors or research analysts, the price of its ADSs is likely to decrease. Changyou generates all of its revenues under the item-based revenue model, which has a short history of commercial application and presents risks related to consumer preferences and regulatory restrictions. When Changyou first launched BO in October 2004, it generated revenue under the time-based revenue model. Currently, Changyou operates all of its games under the item-based revenue model. Under this revenue model, Changyou’s game players are free to play the games for an unlimited amount of time, but are charged for the purchases of certain virtual items. Changyou currently expects that a substantial majority of its revenues, including revenues from all of its current pipeline games, will continually be generated under the item-based revenue model. The item-based revenue model requires Changyou to design games that not only attract game players to spend more time playing, but also encourage them to purchase virtual items. The sale of virtual items requires Changyou to track closely consumer tastes and preferences, especially as to in-game consumption patterns. If Changyou fails to design virtual items so as to incentivize game player to purchase them, it may not be able to effectively translate its game player base and their playing time into revenues. Although the item-based revenue model is currently a prevalent revenue model for MMORPGs in China, it does not have a long history of proven commercial application. In addition, the item-based revenue model may cause additional concerns with PRC regulators who have been implementing regulations designed to reduce the amount of time that Chinese youths spend on online games and intended to limit the total amount of virtual currency issued by online game operators and the amount of purchase by individual game player. A revenue model that does not charge for time may be viewed by the PRC regulators as inconsistent with this goal. Changyou cannot assure that the item-based revenue model will continue to be commercially successful, or that it will not in the future need to change our revenue model back to the time-based revenue model or to a new revenue model. Any change in revenue model could result in disruption of Changyou’s game operations and decrease in the number of its game players. 66 Table of Contents Changyou relies on data recorded in our billing systems for revenue recognition and tracking of game players’ consumption patterns of virtual items. If Changyou’s billing systems fail to operate effectively, it will not only affect the completeness and accuracy of its revenue recognition, but also its ability to design and improve virtual items that appeal to game players. Changyou’s game operations revenues are collected through the sale of its prepaid game cards or online direct sale of game points. However, Changyou does not recognize revenues when its prepaid game card or game points are sold. Rather, Changyou’s revenues are recognized when the virtual items purchased by its game players are consumed. For consumable virtual items, including those with a predetermined expiration time, revenues are recognized as they are consumed, and for perpetual virtual items, revenues are recognized over their estimated lives. Changyou relies on its billing systems to capture the purchase and consumption of the virtual items by its game players. If its billing systems fail to accurately record the purchase and consumption information of the virtual items, Changyou may not be able to accurately recognize its revenues. In addition, various factors affect the estimated lives of perpetual virtual items, such as the average period that game players typically play its games and other game player behavior patterns, the acceptance and popularity of expansion packs, promotional events launched and market conditions, and Changyou relies on its billing systems to capture such historical game player behavior patterns and other information. If such information is not accurately recorded, or if Changyou does not have sufficient information due to its short operating history of TLBB, it will not be able to accurately estimate the lives of the perpetual virtual items, which will also affect its ability to accurately recognize its revenues from such perpetual virtual items. Therefore, if the billing systems of Changyou were damaged by system failure, network interruption, or virus infection, or attacked by a hacker, the integrity of data would be compromised, which could materially and adversely affect Changyou’s revenue recognition and the completeness and accuracy of its recognized revenues, resulting in possible restatement of its financial statements and loss of investors’ confidence in it. In addition, Changyou relies on its billing systems to record game player purchase and consumption patterns, based on which Changyou improve its existing virtual items and design new virtual items. For example, Changyou intends to increase development efforts on the number and variety of virtual items that its game players like to purchase, and it may also adjust prices accordingly. If its billing systems fail to record data accurately, Changyou’s ability to improve existing virtual items or design new virtual items that are appealing to its game players may be adversely affected, which could in turn materially and adversely affect its revenues. Rapid technological changes may increase the game development costs of Changyou. The online game industry is evolving rapidly, so Changyou needs to anticipate new technologies and evaluate their possible market acceptance. In addition, government authorities or industry organizations may adopt new standards that apply to game development. Any new technologies and new standards may require increases in expenditures for MMORPG development and operations, and Changyou will need to adapt its business to cope with the changes and support these new services to be successful. If Changyou falls behind in adopting new technologies or standards, its existing games may lose popularity, and its newly developed games may not be well received in the marketplace. As a result, Changyou’s business prospects and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Changyou’s business may be materially harmed if its MMORPGs are not featured in a sufficient number of Internet cafés in China. A substantial number of game players access Changyou’s games through Internet cafés in China. Due to limited hardware capacity, Internet cafés generally feature a limited number of games on their computers. Changyou thus competes with a growing number of other online game operators to ensure that its games are featured on these computers. This competition may intensify in China due to a recent nationwide suspension of approval for the establishment of new Internet cafés in 2007, and the restrictions and control on the total number of Internet cafés nationwide by the MOC thereafter. Changyou takes steps to ensure that its games are featured in a sufficient number of Internet cafés, including maintaining good relationships with Internet café operators, requiring its distributors to maintain a sales presence in a large number of Internet cafés, conducting periodical promotional activities in select Internet cafés, and other general sales and marketing efforts. If Changyou fails to maintain good relationships with Internet café operators, or if it and/or its distributors fail to successfully persuade Internet cafés to feature its MMORPGs, its revenues may be materially and adversely affected. 67 Table of Contents Changyou’s marketing and promotion have benefited significantly from its association with Sohu. Any negative development in Sohu’s market position or brand recognition may materially and adversely affect Changyou’s marketing efforts and the popularity of its games. Changyou is a majority owned subsidiary of Sohu and expect to continue to be part of the Sohu Group, as Sohu is expected to remain the controlling shareholder of Changyou. Changyou has benefited significantly from Sohu in marketing its games. For example, Changyou has benefited from Sohu’s large user base by marketing and advertising across Sohu’s domains and using the Sohu Group’s single-user ID system, which provides Sohu’s registered users easy access to Changyou’s games. Changyou also benefits from Sohu’s strong brand recognition in China, which has provided Changyou credibility and a broad marketing reach. If Sohu loses its market position, the effectiveness of Changyou’s marketing efforts through its association with Sohu could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, any negative publicity associated with Sohu.com or its affiliated websites will likely have an adverse impact on the effectiveness of Changyou’s marketing on those sites as well as its reputation and brand. Changyou may be exposed to infringement or misappropriation claims by third parties, which, if determined adversely to it, could subject it to significant liabilities and other costs. The success of Changyou depends largely on its ability to use and develop its technology and know-how without infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties. Changyou cannot assure that third parties will not assert intellectual property claims against it. Changyou is subject to additional risks if entities licensing to its intellectual property, including, for example, game source codes, do not have adequate rights in any such licensed materials. The validity and scope of claims relating to the intellectual property of game development and technology involve complex scientific, legal and factual questions and analysis and, therefore, tend to be uncertain. If third parties assert copyright or patent infringement or violation of other intellectual property rights against Changyou, it has to defend itself in litigation or administrative proceedings, which can be both costly and time consuming and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of its technical and management personnel. An adverse determination in any such litigation or proceedings to which Changyou may become a party could subject Changyou to significant liability to third parties, require it to seek licenses from third parties, to pay ongoing royalties, or to redesign its games or subject it to injunctions prohibiting the development and operation of its games. Changyou may need to incur significant expenses to enforce its proprietary rights, and if it is unable to protect such rights, its competitive position could be harmed. Changyou regards its proprietary software, domain names, trade names, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property as critical to its success. In particular, Changyou has spent a significant amount of time and resources in developing TLBB and DMD. Changyou’s ability to protect its proprietary rights in connection with TLBB and DMD is critical for the success of these games and its overall financial performance. Changyou has registered a number of software in China for copyright protection and it has taken various measures to protect its source codes, including confidentiality agreements and segregation of source codes, so that only its Chief Technology Officer has access to the entire source codes for any of its games. Changyou has applied for registration of 281 trademarks in the PRC, including those related to its company name and its MMORPGs. Changyou has obtained a trademark registration certificate in the PRC relating to TLBB. Changyou has also applied for 73 trademarks in total in countries and regions such as Taiwan, the United States, Europe, Malaysia, Turkey and Vietnam relating to its company name and its MMORPGs. Changyou has obtained four trademarks relating to TLBB and two trademarks relating to DMD in Taiwan and three trademarks relating to DMD in Japan. In addition, Changyou has obtained six trademarks in the European Union relating to TLBB. However, Changyou may not succeed in obtaining trademarks that it has applied for, including any trademarks relating to TLBB and DMD. Any failure to register trademarks in any country or region may limit Changyou’s ability to protect its rights in such country or region under relevant trademark laws, and Changyou may even need to change the name or the relevant trademark in certain cases, which may adversely affect its branding and marketing efforts. In addition, Changyou cannot assure that its measures will be sufficient to protect its proprietary information and intellectual property. Intellectual property rights and confidentiality protection in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other developed countries. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology is difficult and expensive. Any steps Changyou has taken to prevent the misappropriation of its proprietary technology may be inadequate. The validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property in Internet-related industries are uncertain and still evolving. In particular, the laws and enforcement procedures in the PRC are uncertain and may not protect intellectual property rights in this area to the same extent as do the laws and enforcement procedures in the United States and other developed countries. 68 Table of Contents Despite Changyou’s efforts to protect its intellectual property, other online game developers may copy its ideas and designs, and other third parties may infringe its intellectual property rights. For example, certain third parties have misappropriated the source codes of previous versions of TLBB and have set up unauthorized servers in China and elsewhere to operate TLBB to compete with Changyou. As a result, Changyou has taken measures to enforce its intellectual property rights. However, such measures may not be successful in eliminating these unauthorized servers. The existence of unauthorized servers may attract game players away from Changyou’s games and may result in decreases in its revenues. Litigation relating to intellectual property rights may result in substantial costs to Changyou and diversion of resources and management attention away from Changyou’s business, and may not be successful. In addition, as the ideas and designs of Changyou are not protected by patents, other online game developers may independently develop ideas and designs that compete with Changyou. Changyou may fail to maintain a stable and efficient physical distribution network for its prepaid game cards. Online payment systems in China are in a developmental stage and are not as widely available to or accepted by consumers in China as they are in the United States. Changyou relies heavily on a physical distribution network composed of third-party distributors to cover a network of retail outlets across China for the sales of its prepaid game cards to its game players. As a result, Changyou’s revenues could be adversely affected by the under-performance of its distributors, such as the failure to meet minimum sales or penetration targets or the failure to establish an extensive retail network. Changyou generally signs one-year agreements with its distributors. Changyou may not continue to maintain favorable relationships with them. In addition, the distributors may violate the distribution agreements. Such violations may include, among other things, their: • failure to maintain minimum price levels for Changyou’s prepaid game cards in accordance with the distribution agreements; • failure to properly promote Changyou’s MMORPGs in local Internet cafés and other important outlets, or cooperate with Changyou’s sales and marketing team’s efforts in their designated territories; and • selling Changyou’s prepaid game cards outside their designated territories. In the past, some of the distributors have failed to carry out their obligations in accordance with the distribution agreements, which resulted in termination of Changyou’s distribution relationship with them. If Changyou decides to penalize, suspend or terminate its distributors for acting in violation of the distribution agreements, or if the distributors fail to address material violations committed by any of their retail outlets in a timely manner, Changyou’s ability to effectively sell its prepaid game cards in any given territory could be negatively impacted, which could materially and adversely affect its revenues. Changyou could be liable for breaches of security of its and the third-parties’ online payment platforms, and sales made through those channels might have a negative impact on its revenues. Currently, Changyou directly sells a substantial portion of virtual prepaid game cards and game points to its game players through third-party online payment platforms. In all these online transactions, secured transmission of confidential information, such as customers’ credit card numbers and expiration dates, personal information and billing addresses, over public networks is essential to maintain consumer confidence. In addition, Changyou expects that an increasing amount of its sales will be conducted over the Internet as a result of the growing use of online payment systems. As a result, the associated online crime will likely increase as well. The current security measures of Changyou and those of the third parties with whom Changyou transacts business may not be adequate. Changyou must be prepared to increase its security measures and efforts so that its game players have confidence in the reliability of the online payment systems that it uses, which will require additional costs and expenses and may still not be completely safe. In addition, Changyou does not have control over the security measures of its third-party online payment vendors. Security breaches of the online payment systems that Changyou uses could expose it to litigation and possible liability for failing to secure confidential customer information and could harm its reputation, ability to attract customers and ability to encourage customers to purchase virtual items. 69 Table of Contents Changyou are dependent upon its existing management, its key development personnel and its qualified technical personnel, and its business may be severely disrupted if Changyou loses their services. The future success of Changyou depends substantially on the continued services of its executive officers and its key development personnel, such as its Chief Executive Officer, Tao Wang, who has been instrumental in the development of TLBB; its Chief Technology Officer, Xiaojian Hong; its President and Chief Operating Officer, Dewen Chen; and its Chief Financial Officer, Alex Ho. If one or more of the executive officers or key development personnel were unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, Changyou might not be able to replace them easily or at all. In addition, if any of its executive officers or key employees joins a competitor or forms a competing company, Changyou may lose know-how, key professionals and staff members as well as suppliers. These executive officers and key employees could develop and operate games that could compete with and take game players away from Changyou’s existing and future games. Each of the executive officers and key personnel has entered into an employment agreement with Changyou, which contains non-competition provisions. However, if any dispute arises between the executive officers or key employees and Changyou, these non-competition provisions may not be enforceable in China. Changyou is rapidly expanding its business and need to hire a significant number of new employees. If Changyou is unable to attract a sufficient number of qualified new employees or retain its existing employees, its business prospects may be materially and adversely affected. As Changyou is in the early stages of its development and its business is growing rapidly, it has needed, and expects to continue to need, to increase the number of its employees, including senior-level executives, experienced project managers, game development personnel and game operation professionals. The number of its employees increased 69.0% between the end of 2009 and the end of 2010. Changyou’s industry in China is characterized by high demand and intense competition for talent, particularly for game developers and related technical personnel, and Changyou may not be able to attract a sufficient number of additional qualified new employees or retain existing employees to meet the growth of its business, in which case its growth strategy and its business prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Changyou’s business could suffer if it does not successfully manage its current and future growth. Changyou has experienced a period of rapid growth and expansion that has placed, and will continue to place, strain on its management personnel, systems and resources. To accommodate the growth pursuant to its strategies, Changyou anticipates that it will need to implement a variety of new and upgraded operational and financial systems, including online payment systems and related security systems, procedures and controls, and the improvement of accounting and other internal management systems, all of which require substantial management efforts and financial resources. Changyou will also need to continue to expand, train, manage and motivate its workforce, and manage its relationships with its distributors, third-party service providers and game player base. All of these endeavors will require substantial management effort and skills and the incurrence of additional expenditures. Changyou cannot assure that it will be able to efficiently or effectively implement its growth strategies and manage the growth of its operations, and any failure to do so may limit its future growth and hamper its business strategy. Changyou incurs additional costs and face significant risks when it licenses its games outside of China and seeks to expand its operations to select markets, such as the United States, the United Kingdom, Malaysia and Korea. If Changyou fails to manage these risks, its growth and business prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Changyou currently licenses TLBB to third-party operators to operate the game in Taiwan, Hong Kong, Vietnam, Malaysia and Singapore and Thailand. Pursuant to its strategy, Changyou plans to continue to license TLBB and other future games in these and other overseas markets. Changyou has also expanded its direct MMORPG operations to select markets, such as the United States, the United Kingdom, Malaysia and Korea, and expects to expand its direct MMORPG operations to other overseas markets. Identifying appropriate overseas markets, negotiating with potential third-party licensees and managing its relationships with its licensees all require substantial management effort and skills and the incurrence of additional expenditures. Licensing games, or operating them directly overseas, also requires translation of its games to the local language of the overseas market in which Changyou plans to license or operate, and may require customization as well, both of which require additional costs and expenses. Furthermore, there are additional risks in connection with the licensing or direct operation of the games overseas, including: • difficulties in identifying and maintaining good relationships with licensees who are knowledgeable about, and can effectively distribute and operate the games in, overseas markets; 70 Table of Contents • difficulties and costs relating to compliance with the different legal requirements and commercial terms in the overseas markets in which Changyou licenses or directly operates its games, such as game export regulatory procedures, taxes and other restrictions and expenses; • difficulties in maintaining the reputation of Changyou and its games, when its games are operated by licensees in the overseas markets pursuant to their own standards; • difficulties in managing its overseas employees when Changyou operates its games directly overseas; • changes in the political, regulatory or economic conditions in a foreign country or region, or public policies toward online games; • fluctuations in currency exchange rate; • difficulties in verifying revenues generated from the games by the licensees for purposes of determining the royalties to Changyou; • difficulties in protecting the intellectual property of Changyou; • exposure to different regulatory systems governing the protection of intellectual property and the regulation of online games, the Internet and the export of technology; • the risk that the regulatory authorities in foreign countries or regions may impose withholding taxes, or place restriction on repatriation of Changyou’s profits; and • inherent difficulties and delays in contract enforcement and collection of receivables through the use of foreign legal systems. If Changyou is unable to manage these risks effectively, its ability to license or operate directly its games overseas may be impaired, which may materially and adversely affect its future growth, financial condition and results of operations. Potential future acquisitions and/or strategic alliances may have an adverse effect on Changyou’s ability to manage its business. Changyou may acquire technologies, businesses or assets that are complementary to its business and/or enter into strategic alliances in order to leverage its position in the Chinese online game market. Future acquisitions or strategic alliances would expose Changyou to potential risks, including risks associated with the integration of new technologies, businesses and personnel, unforeseen or hidden liabilities, the diversion of management attention and resources from its existing business, and the inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset the costs and expenses of acquisitions or strategic alliances. Any difficulties encountered in the acquisition and strategic alliance process may have an adverse effect on Changyou’s ability to manage its business. Changyou does not have business insurance coverage. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products, or offer them at a high price. As a result, Changyou does not have any business liability, loss of data or disruption insurance coverage for its operations in China. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster might result in Changyou’s incurring substantial costs and the diversion of its resources. There are uncertainties regarding the future growth of the online game industry in China. The online game industry, from which Changyou derives all of its revenues, is a relatively new and evolving industry. The growth of the online game industry and the level of demand and market acceptance of Changyou’s games are subject to a high degree of uncertainty. The future operating results of Changyou will depend on numerous factors affecting the online game industry, many of which are beyond its control, including: • the growth of personal computer, Internet and broadband users and penetration in China and other markets in which Changyou offers its games, and the rate of any such growth; • whether the online game industry, particularly in China and the rest of the Asia-Pacific region, continues to grow and the rate of any such growth; 71 Table of Contents • general economic conditions in China, particularly economic conditions adversely affecting discretionary consumer spending, such as the slowdown in China’s economic growth between the third quarter of 2007 and the first quarter of 2009; • the availability and popularity of other forms of entertainment, particularly games of console systems, which are already popular in developed countries and may gain popularity in China; and • changes in consumer demographics and public tastes and preferences. There is no assurance that online games, in particular MMORPGs, will continue to be popular in China or elsewhere. A decline in the popularity of online games in general, or the MMORPGs that Changyou operates, will likely adversely affect its business and prospects. The successful operation of Changyou’s business and implementation of its growth strategies, including its ability to accommodate additional game players in the future, depend upon the performance and reliability of the Internet infrastructure and fixed telecommunications networks in China. Although private Internet service providers currently exist in China, almost all access to the Internet is maintained through state-owned telecommunications operators under the administrative control and regulatory supervision of the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, or MIIT (formerly the Ministry of Information Industry). Changyou relies on this infrastructure to provide data communications capacity primarily through local telecommunications lines. Although the government has announced plans to develop aggressively the national information infrastructure, there is no assurance that this infrastructure will be developed as planned or at all. In addition, Changyou will have no access to alternative networks and services, on a timely basis if at all, in the event of any infrastructure disruption or failure. The Internet infrastructure in China may not support the demands necessary for the continued growth in Internet usage. The limited use of personal computers in China and the relatively high cost of Internet access in relation to per capita gross domestic product may limit the development of the Internet in China and impede Changyou’s growth. The penetration rate for personal computers in China is significantly lower than it is in the United States and other developed countries. Furthermore, the cost of Internet access is still relatively high as compared to other developed countries. The limited use of personal computers in China and the relatively high cost of Internet access may limit the growth of the business of Changyou. In addition, there may be increases in Internet access fees or telecommunication fees in China. If that happens, the number of Changyou’s game players may decrease and the growth of its game player base may be materially impacted. Changyou faces risks related to health epidemics and other natural disasters. Changyou’s business could be adversely affected by the effects of avian flu, SARS, H1N1 or other epidemics or outbreaks. China reported a number of cases of SARS in 2003, which resulted in the closure by the PRC government of many businesses in May and June of 2003 to prevent the transmission of SARS. Similarly, there were many businesses in China that were affected by the outbreak of the H1N1 virus in 2009. In recent years, there have been reports of occurrences of avian flu in various parts of China, including a few confirmed human cases and deaths. Any prolonged recurrence of avian flu, SARS, H1N1 or other adverse public health developments in China may have a material adverse effect on the business operations of Changyou. These could include illness and loss of Changyou’s management and key employees, as well as temporary closure of its offices and related other businesses, such as server operations, upon which Changyou relies. Such loss of management and key employees or closures would severely disrupt the business operations of Changyou. Changyou has not adopted any written preventive measures or contingency plans to combat any future outbreak of avian flu, SARS, H1N1 or any other epidemic. In addition, other major natural disasters may also adversely affect Changyou’s business by, for example, causing disruptions of the Internet network or otherwise affecting access to its games. 72 Table of Contents If the PRC government determines that the VIE structure for operating its business does not comply with PRC government restrictions on foreign investment in the online game industry, Changyou could face severe penalties. Various regulations in China currently restrict or prevent foreign-invested entities from engaging in telecommunication services, including operating online games. Because of these restrictions, the MMORPG operations of Changyou in the PRC are conducted through its variable interest entities, or VIEs, including Beijing Gamease Age Digital Technology Co., Ltd., or Gamease, a PRC company that is owned by its Chief Executive Officer and its President and Chief Operating Officer, Beijing Guanyou Gamespace Digital Technology Co., Ltd., or Guanyou Gamespace, a PRC company that is owned by its Chief Executive Officer and its President and Chief Operating Officer, and Shanghai ICE Information Technology Co., Ltd., or Shanghai ICE, a PRC company that is owned by two Changyou employees. All of the nominee shareholders of those VIEs are PRC citizens. Gamease, Guanyou Gamespace and Shanghai ICE are effectively controlled by Beijing AmazGame Age Internet Technology Co., Ltd., or AmazGame, Beijing Changyou Gamespace Software Technology Co., Ltd., or Gamespace, and ICE Information Technology (Shanghai) Co., Ltd, or ICE WFOE, respectively, all of which are PRC companies and indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries of Changyou, through a series of contractual arrangements. A circular issued by MIIT in July 2006, or the MIIT circular, reiterated restrictions on foreign investment in telecommunications businesses. Under this circular, a domestic company that holds a license for the provision of Internet information service, or an ICP license, or a license to conduct any value-added telecommunications business in China, is prohibited from leasing, transferring or selling the license to foreign investors in any form, and from providing any assistance, including providing resources, sites or facilities, to foreign investors to conduct value-added telecommunications businesses illegally in China. Furthermore, trademarks and domain names that are used in a value-added telecommunications business must be owned by the local ICP license holder. The MIIT circular further requires each ICP license holder to have appropriate facilities for its approved business operations and to maintain such facilities in the regions covered by its license. In addition, all value-added telecommunications service providers are required to maintain network and information security in accordance with the standards set forth under relevant PRC regulations. Due to a lack of interpretative materials from the authorities, it is uncertain whether MIIT would consider Changyou’s corporate structures and contractual arrangements as a kind of foreign investment in telecommunication services. Therefore, it is unclear what impact the MIIT circular might have on Changyou or the other Chinese Internet companies that have adopted the same or similar corporate structures and contractual arrangements as Changyou does. On September 28, 2009, the GAPP, together with the National Copyright Administration, and National Office of Combating Pornography and Illegal Publications jointly issued a Notice on Further Strengthening on the Administration of Pre-examination and Approval of Online Game and the Examination and Approval of Imported Online Game, or the GAPP Notice. The GAPP Notice states that foreign investors are not permitted to invest in online game operating businesses in China via wholly-owned, China-foreign equity joint ventures or cooperative joint ventures or to exercise control over or participate in the operation of domestic online game businesses through indirect means, such as other joint venture companies or contractual or technical arrangements. It is unclear whether GAPP will deem Changyou’s VIE structure to be such an “indirect means” for foreign investors to exercise control over or participate in the operation of domestic online game business. If Changyou’s VIE structure were deemed to be one such an “indirect means” under the GAPP Notice, the VIE structure might be challenged by the GAPP authorities. If Changyou was found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws, regulations or notices, including the MIIT circular and the GAPP Notice, regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over the licensing and operation of online games would have broad discretion in dealing with such a violation, including levying fines, confiscating Changyou’s income, revoking the business or operating licenses of Gamease, Guanyou Gamespace, Shanghai ICE, AmazGame, Gamespace and/or ICE WFOE, requiring Changyou to restructure the relevant ownership structure or operations, or requiring Changyou to discontinue all or any portion of Changyou’s game operations. Any of these actions could cause significant disruption to Changyou’s business operations. 73 Table of Contents Changyou’s contractual arrangements with the VIEs and their shareholders may not be as effective in providing control over the VIEs as direct ownership of the VIEs and the shareholders of the VIEs may have potential conflicts of interest with Changyou. Changyou has no ownership interest in Gamease, Guanyou Gamespace or Shanghai ICE and it conducts substantially all of its operations and generate substantially all of its revenues through contractual arrangements that its subsidiaries, AmazGame, Gamespace and ICE WFOE had entered into with Gamease, Guanyou Gamespace, Shanghai ICE and their shareholders respectively, and such contractual arrangements are designed to provide Changyou with effective control over Gamease, Guanyou Gamespace and Shanghai ICE. Changyou depends on Gamease, Guanyou Gamespace and Shanghai ICE to hold and maintain certain licenses necessary for its game business. Gamease, Guanyou Gamespace and Shanghai ICE collectively own all of the necessary intellectual property, facilities and other assets relating to the operation of Changyou’s games and employ personnel for Changyou’s game operations and distribution. These contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing Changyou with control over Gamease, Guanyou Gamespace and Shanghai ICE as direct ownership. If Changyou had direct ownership of Gamease, Guanyou Gamespace and Shanghai ICE, it would be able to exercise its rights as a shareholder to effect changes in their Boards of Directors, which in turn could effect changes, at the management level. Due to its VIE structure, Changyou has to rely on contractual rights to effect control and management of Gamease, Guanyou Gamespace and Shanghai ICE, which exposes it to the risk of potential breach of contract by the shareholders of Gamease, Guanyou Gamespace and Shanghai ICE. In addition, as each of Gamease, Guanyou Gamespace and Shanghai ICE is jointly owned by its respective shareholders, it may be difficult for Changyou to change its corporate structure if such shareholders refuse to cooperate with it. The shareholders of Gamease, Guanyou Gamespace or Shanghai ICE may breach, or cause Gamease, Guanyou Gamespace or Shanghai ICE to breach, the contracts for a number of reasons. For example, their interests as shareholders of Gamease, Guanyou Gamespace or Shanghai ICE and the interests of Changyou may conflict and Changyou may fail to resolve such conflicts; the shareholders may believe that breaching the contracts will lead to greater economic benefit for them; or the shareholders may otherwise act in bad faith. If any of the foregoing were to happen, Changyou may have to rely on legal or arbitral proceedings to enforce its contractual rights, including specific performance or injunctive relief, and claiming damages. Such arbitral and legal proceedings may cost Changyou’s substantial financial and other resources, and result in disruption of its business, and Changyou cannot assure that the outcome will be in its favor. In addition, as all of these contractual arrangements are governed by PRC law and provide for the resolution of disputes through either arbitration or litigation in the PRC, they would be interpreted in accordance with PRC law and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. The legal environment in the PRC is not as developed as in other jurisdictions, such as the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could further limit Changyou’s ability to enforce these contractual arrangements. Furthermore, these contracts may not be enforceable in China if PRC government authorities or courts take a view that such contracts contravene PRC laws and regulations or are otherwise not enforceable for public policy reasons. In the event Changyou is unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, it may not be able to exert effective control over Gamease, Guanyou Gamespace or Shanghai ICE, and its ability to conduct its business may be materially and adversely affected. Changyou’s contractual arrangements with its VIEs may result in adverse tax consequences to it. Under PRC laws and regulations, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be subject to audit or challenge by the PRC tax authorities. Changyou could face material adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that its contractual arrangements with any of Gamease, Guanyou Gamespace or Shanghai ICE were not made on an arm’s length basis and adjust its income and expenses for PRC tax purposes in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could result in a reduction, for PRC tax purposes, of adjustments recorded by Gamease, Guanyou Gamespace or Shanghai ICE, which could adversely affect Changyou by (i) increasing the tax liability of Gamease, Guanyou Gamespace or Shanghai ICE without reducing the tax liability of AmazGame, Gamespace or ICE WFOE, which could further result in interest being levied to Changyou for underpaid taxes; or (ii) limiting the ability of Gamease, Guanyou Gamespace, Shanghai ICE, AmazGame, Gamespace and/or ICE WFOE to maintain preferential tax treatments and other financial incentives. If for any reason Changyou needs to cause the transfer of one of the shareholders’ shares in any of Gamease, Guanyou Gamespace or Shanghai ICE to a different nominee shareholder (such as if, for example, one of such shareholders is no longer employed by Changyou), it might be required to pay individual income tax, on behalf of the transferring shareholder, on any gain deemed to have been realized by such shareholder on such transfer. 74 Table of Contents Substantially all of Changyou’s revenues are generated through Gamease, Guanyou Gamespace and Shanghai ICE, its VIEs, and it relies on payments made by its VIEs to AmazGame, Gamespace and ICE WFOE, Changyou’s subsidiaries, pursuant to contractual arrangements to transfer any such revenues to AmazGame, Gamespace and ICE WFOE. Any restriction on such payments and any increase in the amount of PRC taxes applicable to such payments may materially and adversely affect Changyou’s business and its ability to pay dividends to its shareholders and ADS holders. Changyou conducts substantially all of its operations through Gamease, Guanyou Gamespace and Shanghai ICE, its VIEs, which generate substantially all of its revenues. As our VIEs are not owned by Changyou’s subsidiaries, they are not able to make dividend payments to the subsidiaries. Instead, each of AmazGame, Gamespace and ICE WFOE, as Changyou’s subsidiaries in China, entered into a number of contracts with its corresponding VIE, pursuant to which the VIE pays the PRC subsidiary of Changyou for certain services that the PRC subsidiary of Changyou provides to the VIE. However, depending on the nature of services provided, certain of these payments are subject to PRC taxes at different rates, including business taxes and VATs, which effectively reduce the amount that Changyou receives from the VIEs. Changyou cannot assure that the PRC government will not impose restrictions on such payments or change the tax rates applicable to such payments. Any such restrictions on such payment or increases in the applicable tax rates may materially and adversely affect Changyou’s ability to receive payments from the VIEs or the amount of such payments, and may in turn materially and adversely affect its business, its net income and its ability to pay dividends to its shareholders and ADS holders. Changyou’s VIEs Shanghai ICE and Guanyou Gamespace are in the process of applying for Internet publishing licenses that are required under PRC regulations for certain games it currently operates or plans to launch in the future. If GAPP challenges the commercial operation of certain of Changyou’s games, or if Changyou fails to obtain necessary licenses to commercially operate certain of its games, it may be subject to various penalties, including restrictions on its operations. Pursuant to PRC regulations issued by GAPP and MIIT relating to the regulation of online publication, an online game operator needs to obtain an Internet publishing license and each game in operation needs to be granted a publishing number in order to directly make its online games publicly available in the PRC, as operating online games is deemed to be an online publishing activity. Gamease, Changyou’s VIE operating TLBB, BO, BH2, DHSH, ZHYX and IF, has obtained an Internet publishing license, while each of Shanghai ICE, a VIE of Changyou that operates SJQY, and Guanyou Gamespace, a VIE of Changyou which currently has no game in operation but is expected to conduct operations of certain online games in the future, is still in the process of applying for an Internet publishing license. We cannot assure you that Shanghai ICE or Guanyou Gamespace will be able to obtain an Internet publishing license or obtain such a license in a timely manner. TLBB, BO, BH2, ZHYX, DHSH, IF and SJQY were granted publishing numbers and published through third parties that were licensed electronic publishing entities, because neither Gamease nor Shanghai ICE had obtained an Internet publishing license at the time those online games were made publicly available. Our agreements regarding the publication of TLBB, BO and DHSH with certain third-party licensed electronic publishing entities expired on December 5, 2010, December 20, 2010 and November 30, 2010, respectively. Our agreements regarding the publication of BH2, ZHYX, IF and SJQY with certain third-party licensed electronic publishing entities will expire on February 22, 2012, December 16, 2012, December 5, 2011 and July 22, 2015, respectively. Gamease is in the process of making a filing with GAPP in order to change the publisher for TLBB, BO and DHSH to Gamease. After the publication agreements for BH2, ZHYX and IF expire, Gamease also intends to change the publisher of those games to Gamease and make all necessary filings with GAPP regarding any such change. After the publication agreements for SJQY expire, if Shanghai ICE has obtained an Internet publishing license, it will change the publisher for SJQY to Shanghai ICE, and make all necessary filings with GAPP regarding such change, or, if Shanghai ICE has not obtained an Internet publishing license, it will work with the third-party licensed electronic publishing entity to extend the publication agreements for SJQY. The current PRC regulations are not clear as to the consequence of obtaining publishing numbers through third party electronic publishing entities and operating without an Internet publishing license. Changyou has made oral inquiries with the officials at GAPP and has been informed that GAPP is aware of and does not object to such practice, so long as applications for Internet publishing licenses have been filed with GAPP. However, due to lack of formal interpretation on this issue, if its current practice is later challenged by GAPP, Changyou may be subject to various penalties, including fines, confiscation of publishing equipment and the revenues generated from the publishing activities, the revocation of its business license, or the forced discontinuation of, or restrictions on, its operations. 75 Table of Contents Regulation and censorship of information disseminated over the Internet in China may adversely affect Changyou’s business, and Changyou may be liable for information displayed on, retrieved from or linked to its websites. The PRC government has adopted regulations governing Internet access and the distribution of news and other information over the Internet. Under these regulations, Internet content providers and Internet publishers are prohibited from posting or displaying over the Internet any content that, among other things, violates PRC laws and regulations, impairs the national dignity of China, or is obscene, superstitious, fraudulent or defamatory. When Internet content providers and Internet publishers, including online game operators, find that information falling within the above scope is transmitted on their websites or is stored in their electronic bulletin service systems, they are required to terminate the transmission of such information or delete such information immediately, keep records, and report to relevant authorities. Failure to comply with these requirements could result in the revocation of Changyou’s ICP license and other required licenses and the closure of Changyou’s websites. Website operators may also be held liable for prohibited information displayed on, retrieved from or linked to their websites. In addition, the MIIT has published regulations that subject website operators to potential liability for the actions of game players and others using their websites, including liability for violations of PRC laws prohibiting the dissemination of content deemed to be socially destabilizing. As these regulations are relatively new and subject to interpretation by the relevant authorities, it may not be possible for Changyou to determine in all cases the type of content that could result in liability for it as an MMORPG developer and operator. In addition, Changyou may not be able to control or restrict the content of other Internet content providers linked to or accessible through its websites, or content generated or placed on its websites by its game players, despite its attempt to monitor such content. To the extent that regulatory authorities find any portion of Changyou’s content objectionable, they may require Changyou to curtail its games, which may reduce its game player base, the amount of time its games are played or the purchases of virtual items. There are currently no laws or regulations in the PRC governing property rights of virtual assets and therefore it is not clear what liabilities, if any, Changyou may have relating to the loss of virtual assets by its game players. In the course of playing the games, some virtual assets, such as game player experience, skills and weaponry, are acquired and accumulated. Such virtual assets can be highly valued by game players and in some cases are traded among game players for real money or assets. In practice, virtual assets can be lost for various reasons, such as data loss caused by delay of network service by a network crash, or by hacking activities. There are currently no PRC laws and regulations governing property rights of virtual assets. As a result, it is unclear who the legal owner of virtual assets is and whether the ownership of virtual assets is protected by law. In addition, it is unclear under PRC law whether an operator of online games such as Changyou would have any liability (whether in contract, tort or otherwise) for loss of such virtual assets by game players. Based on several judgments regarding the liabilities of online game operators for loss of virtual assets by game players, the courts have generally required the online game operators to provide well-developed security systems to protect such virtual assets owned by game players. In the event of a loss of virtual assets, Changyou may be sued by game players and may be held liable for damages. Changyou’s operations may be adversely affected by implementation of new anti-fatigue-related regulations. The PRC government may decide to adopt more stringent policies to monitor the online game industry as a result of adverse public reaction to perceived addiction to online games, particularly by minors. On April 15, 2007, eight PRC government authorities, including the GAPP, the Ministry of Education and MIIT, issued a notice requiring all Chinese online game operators to adopt an “anti-fatigue system” in an effort to curb addiction to online games by minors. Under the anti-fatigue system, three hours or less of continuous play is defined to be “healthy,” three to five hours is defined to be “fatiguing,” and five hours or more is defined to be “unhealthy.” Game operators are required to reduce the value of game benefits for minor game players by half when those game players reach the “fatigue” level, and to zero when they reach the “unhealthy” level. In addition, online game players in China are now required to register their identity card numbers before they can play an online game. This system allows game operators to identify which game players are minors. These restrictions could limit Changyou’s ability to increase its business among minors. Furthermore, if these restrictions were expanded to apply to adult game players in the future, Changyou’s business could be materially and adversely affected. 76 Table of Contents The PRC government has begun to tighten its regulation of Internet cafés, which are currently one of the primary places where Changyou’s games are played. Stricter government regulation of Internet cafés could restrict Changyou’s ability to maintain or increase its revenues and its game player base. Internet cafés are one of the primary places where Changyou’s games are played. In April 2001, the PRC government began tightening its regulation and supervision of Internet cafés. In particular, a large number of Internet cafés without requisite government licenses have been closed. In addition, the PRC government has imposed higher capital and facility requirements for the establishment of Internet cafés. The PRC government’s policy, which encourages the development of a limited number of national and regional Internet café chains and discourages the establishment of independent Internet cafés, may also slow down the growth in the number of new Internet cafés. In February 2007, several central governmental authorities jointly issued a notice suspending the issuance of new Internet café licenses, and the total number of Internet Cafés nationwide is restricted and controlled by the relevant authorities. Governmental authorities may from time to time impose stricter requirements, such as the customers’ age limit and hours of operation, among others, as a result of the occurrence and perception of, and the media attention on, gang fights, arson and other incidents in or related to Internet cafés. So long as Internet cafés remain as one of the primary places for game players to play Changyou’s games, any reduction in the number, or any slowdown in the growth, of Internet cafés or restrictions in their operations in China could limit Changyou’s ability to maintain or increase its revenues and its game player base, thereby adversely affecting the results of operations and business prospects of Changyou. Restrictions on virtual currency may adversely affect the game operations revenues of Changyou. The online game revenues of Changyou are collected through the sale of its prepaid cards or online sale of game points. The Notice on the Reinforcement of the Administration of Internet Cafés and Online Games, or the Internet Cafés Notice, issued by MOC on February 15, 2007, directs the People’s Bank of China, or PBOC, to strengthen the administration of virtual currency in online games to avoid any adverse impact on the PRC economy and financial system. This notice provides that the total amount of virtual currency issued by online game operators and the amount purchased by individual users should be strictly limited, with a strict and clear division between virtual transactions and real transactions carried out by way of electronic commerce. This notice also provides that virtual currency should only be used to purchase virtual items. On June 4, 2009, the MOC and the Ministry of Commerce, or MOFCOM jointly issued the Notice on Strengthening the Administration of Online Game Virtual Currency (the “Notice”). In this Notice, the authorities for the first time define “Virtual Currency” as a type of virtual exchange instrument issued by online game operators, purchased directly or indirectly by the game user by exchanging legal currency at a certain exchange rate, saved outside the game programs, stored in servers provided by the online game operators in electronic record format and represented by specific numeric units. In addition, the Notice categorizes companies involved with virtual currency as either issuers or trading platforms and prohibits companies from simultaneously engaging both as issuers and as trading platforms. Most importantly, one of the Notice’s stated intended objectives is to limit the circulation of virtual currency and thereby reduce concerns that it may impact real world inflation. Specifically, the Notice provides that online game operators are required to report the total amount of their issued virtual currencies on a quarterly basis and game operators are prohibited from issuing disproportionate amounts of virtual currencies in order to generate revenues. In addition, the Notice reiterates that virtual currency can only be provided to users in exchange for an RMB payment and can only be used to pay for virtual goods and services of the issuers. Online game operators are strictly prohibited from providing lucky draws or lotteries which are conducted on the condition that participants contribute cash or virtual currencies in exchange for game props or virtual currencies. The Notice also places potentially burdensome obligations on online game operators, including a requirement that operators keep transaction data records for no less than 180 days and a prohibition on operators’ providing virtual currency trading services to minors. In order to comply with the requirements of the Notice, it may be necessary for Changyou to change its virtual currency distribution channel, and its business model may be affected accordingly and it may put more efforts in consummating its database so as to keep users’ information longer. These restrictions may result in higher costs of the online game operation of Changyou and lower sales of its prepaid cards or game points, which may have an adverse effect on its games revenue. 77 Table of Contents Changyou’s business may be adversely affected by public opinion and governmental policies in China as well as in other jurisdictions where Changyou license its MMORPGs to third parties. Currently, most of Changyou’s game players in China are young males, many of whom are students. Due to a relatively high degree of game player loyalty to MMORPGs, easy access to personal computers and Internet cafés, and the lack of other appealing forms of entertainment in China, many teenagers in China frequently play online games. This may result in these teenagers spending less time on or refraining from other activities, including education, vocational training, sports, and taking rest, which could result in adverse public reaction and stricter government regulation. For example, the PRC government has promulgated anti-fatigue-related regulations to limit the amount of time minors can play online games. The PRC government has also begun to tighten its regulations on Internet cafés, currently one of the primary places where online games are played, including limiting the issuance of Internet café operating licenses and imposing higher capital and facility requirements for the establishment of Internet cafés. Adverse public opinion could discourage game players from playing Changyou’s games, and could result in government regulations that impose additional limitations on the operations of online games as well as the game players’ access to online games. For example, in January of 2011, MIIT and other six central government authorities jointly issued a circular under which online game operators are required to adopt various measures to maintain a system to communicate with the parents or other guardians of minors playing online games. Online game operators are required to monitor the activities of the minors and suspend the accounts of minors if so requested by the minors’ parents or other guardians. Changyou believes stricter government regulations, such as regulations imposing stricter age and hour limits on Internet cafés, limiting the issuance of virtual currency by online game operators or the amount of virtual currency that can be purchased by an individual game player, or extending anti-fatigue-related regulations to adults, could be implemented in the future. Such adverse public opinion and tightened government regulations could materially and adversely affect the business prospects of Changyou and its ability to maintain or increase revenues. In addition, the PRC State Administration of Taxation previously announced that it will tax game players on the income derived from the trading of virtual currencies at the rate of 20%. However, it is currently unclear how the tax will be collected or if there will be any effect on Changyou’s game players or its business. Moreover, similar adverse public reaction may arise, and similar government policies may be adopted, in other jurisdictions where Changyou licenses or operates its games, which could materially and adversely affect Changyou’s overseas licensing or game operations revenues. The laws and regulations governing the online game industry in China are evolving and subject to future changes. Changyou may fail to obtain or maintain all applicable permits and approvals. The online game industry in China is highly regulated by the PRC government. Various regulatory authorities of the PRC central government, such as the State Council, the MIIT, GAPP, the MOC and the Ministry of Public Security, are empowered to issue and implement regulations governing various aspects of the online game industry. Changyou is required to obtain applicable permits or approvals from different regulatory authorities in order to operate its MMORPGs. For example, as an online game operator in China, Changyou must obtain an Online Cultural Operating Permit from the MOC and an Internet publishing license from GAPP in order to distribute games through the Internet and, under the GAPP Notice, Changyou must also obtain additional approval from GAPP for any upgrade, expansion pack or new version of any existing game that has previously been approved by GAPP. If Changyou fails to maintain any of its permits or approvals or to apply for permits and approvals on a timely basis, it may be subject to various penalties, including fines and the discontinuation or restriction of its operations. 78 Table of Contents As the online game industry is at an early stage of development in China, new laws and regulations may be adopted from time to time to require additional licenses and permits other than those Changyou currently has, and address new issues that arise. In addition, substantial uncertainties exist regarding the interpretation and implementation of current and any future PRC laws and regulations applicable to the online game industry. For example, there is ambiguity on the regulatory authority and responsibilities between GAPP and the MOC in regulating online games and, as a result, there may be overlapping approval requirements with respect to the same aspect of Changyou’s games or its game operation. Changyou cannot assure that it will be able to obtain timely, or at all, required licenses or any other new license required in the future. Changyou cannot assure that it will not be found in violation of any current PRC laws or regulations should their interpretations change, or that it will not be found in violation of any future PRC laws or regulations. Further strengthened supervision of the online game industry may adversely affect the online game operation of Changyou. In the GAPP Notice, GAPP stated that it is the only governmental department with authority for examination and pre-approval of online games, and that all online game operators must obtain an internet publishing license to provide online game services. Under the GAPP Notice, additional approvals from GAPP are required when game operators release new versions or expansion packs, or make any changes to the originally approved online game. In addition, on July 1, 2009, GAPP issued a Notice on Strengthening the Approval and Administration of Imported Online Games;, in which GAPP stated that it is the only governmental department authorized by the State Council to approve the importation of online games from offshore copyright owners. In the event of any failure to meet the above-mentioned requirements, an operator may face heavy penalties, such as being ordered to stop operation, or having its business license revoked. The online game business of Changyou may be adversely affected by these two GAPP notices. The launch of expansion packs and imported games might be delayed because of the extra approval required. Such delay in releasing expansion packs or imported games may result in higher costs for the online game operation of Changyou and have an adverse effect on its game revenue. On June 3, 2010, the MOC issued Interim Measures for Online Games Administration, or the “Online Game Measures”, which became effective on August 1, 2010, aiming to further strengthen the MOC’s supervision of the online game industry. Specifically, the Online Game Measures reiterate that the MOC has the power to review the content of all online games except online game publications that have been pre-approved by GAPP. However, the Online Game Measures do not clearly specify what constitutes “online game publication.” Furthermore, the Online Game Measures provide that all domestic online games must be filed with the MOC, while all imported online games are subject to a content review prior to their launch. If a substantial change (for example, any significant modification to a game’s storyline, language, tasks, or trading system) is made to an existing imported or domestic online game, it will be subject to a new content review. The online game business of Changyou may be adversely affected by the Online Game Measures. The Online Game Measures do not set forth any specific procedure for the required filing and content review procedures for online games and therefore may cause delay when Changyou tries to file or apply for content review with the MOC. In addition, for Changyou’s imported licensed games, the requirement for prior approval of any substantial change may cause delay in releasing expansion packs, which may result in higher costs of the online game operation of Changyou and have an adverse effect on its game revenue. In addition, the Online Game Measures do not resolve certain inconsistencies and ambiguities resulting from pronouncements included in previous notices issued by GAPP and MOC. Because there is ambiguity in the scope of the authority and the roles and responsibilities of governmental departments, such as the MOC and the GAPP, with oversight of the online game industry, Changyou may face stricter scrutiny of the day-to-day operations of its online game business. If any of the online game operating entities of Changyou cannot comply with any of the stipulations of any PRC governmental department regarding the online game industry, Changyou may be subject to various penalties and its online game business may be negatively affected. 79 Table of Contents Changyou’s business may be adversely affected if it cannot obtain a payment service license On June 14, 2010, the People’s Bank of China (the “PBOC”) issued the Administrative Measure on the Payment Services of Non-Financial Institutions (the “Payment Measures”), which went into effect on September 1, 2010. Under the Payment Measures, Payment Services are defined as the provision of capital transfer services by non-financial institutions acting as intermediaries, including services rendered in connection with network-based payments, issuance and settlement services for pre-paid cards and acquiring services for bank cards. The Payment Measures require all non-financial institutions engaging in Payment Services to obtain a Payment Service License from the PBOC. Failure to obtain a Payment License by September 1, 2011 will lead to the termination of the right to provide payment services. Given that the definition of “network-based payments” in the Payment Measures is vague, Changyou is not sure whether the fee collection activity related to its online game operations would constitute a kind of payment service under the Payment Measures. If Changyou is required to apply for a Payment Service License under the Payment Measures, it cannot assure you that it will be able to obtain the required license in a timely manner. If Changyou cannot obtain such license, its business will be adversely affected. Changyou has limited experience operating as a separate, stand-alone company. Changyou was formed on August 6, 2007 as an indirect subsidiary of Sohu.com Inc. to hold and operate the MMORPG business of Sohu. Sohu transferred all of its assets, liabilities and operations relating to its MMORPG business to us on December 1, 2007. Although Changyou operated as a business unit within the Sohu Group prior to the carve-out, it has had limited experience in conducting its operations on a separate, stand-alone basis. Changyou’s senior management has limited experience working together to manage a separate, stand-alone company. Changyou may encounter operational, administrative and strategic difficulties as it adjusts to operating as a separate, stand-alone company, which may cause it to react slower than its competitors to industry changes, may divert its management’s attention from running its business or may otherwise harm its operations. Since Changyou has become a public company, its management team has been required to develop the expertise necessary to comply with the numerous regulatory and other requirements applicable to separate, stand-alone public companies, including requirements relating to corporate governance, listing standards and securities and investor relations issues. Changyou cannot guarantee that it will be able to do so in a timely and effective manner. Because Changyou has limited experience operating as a separate, stand-alone entity, it may find that it needs to acquire assets in addition to those contributed to it in connection with its carve-out from Sohu. Changyou may fail to acquire assets that prove to be important to its operations or it may not be able to integrate all of its assets. Changyou may not be able to continue to receive the same level of support from Sohu and may not be successful in establishing its brand identity. Sohu has been a leading Internet portal in China, and Changyou’s MMORPG business has benefited significantly from Sohu’s strong Internet market position in China and its expertise in game review and editing. For example, Changyou has benefited from marketing and advertising across Sohu’s domains (such as Sohu.com, the Sohu portal, and 17173.com, the website maintained by Sohu that is dedicated to online game information), and using Sohu’s email system and the Sohu Group’s single-user ID system, which provide Sohu’s large number of registered users easy access to its games. Changyou also benefits from the strong brand recognition of Sohu in China, which has provided it a broad marketing reach. In addition, Sohu’s experienced game editors review and critique Changyou’s games prior to launch, which helps improve the quality of Changyou’s games upon launch. Although Changyou has entered into a Master Transaction Agreement, a Marketing Services Agreement and other related agreements with Sohu, there is no assurance that Changyou will continue to receive the same level of support from Sohu as it did prior to becoming a separate, stand-alone company. In addition, as an entity that is newly separated from Sohu, Changyou as a brand name does not have the same level of recognition as Sohu in China’s Internet market. As a result, the popularity of Changyou’s MMORPGs may decline as a result of lack of brand recognition. Additionally, the current customers, suppliers, and partners of Changyou may react negatively to its carve-out from Sohu. Changyou will need to expend significant time, effort and resources to continue to establish its brand name in the marketplace and its own independent identity. This effort may not be successful. Changyou has applied for trademark registration of Changyou and other related trademarks in China, but it may not be able to obtain such trademarks, or obtain them with the scope it seeks. 80 Table of Contents Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a material and adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for Changyou’s products. Most of the business operations of Changyou are conducted in China and most of its revenues are generated in China. Accordingly, Changyou’s business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the amount of government involvement, the level of development, the growth rate, the control of foreign exchange, and the allocation of resources. While the Chinese economy has grown significantly in the past 30 years, the growth has been uneven geographically among various sectors of the economy, and during different periods. The Chinese economy may not continue to grow, and if there is growth, such growth may not be steady and uniform; if there is a slowdown, such a slowdown may have a negative effect on Changyou’s business. For example, the Chinese economy experienced high inflation in the second half of 2007 and the first half of 2008. China’s consumer price index soared 7.9% during the six months ended June 30, 2008 as compared to the same period in 2007. To combat inflation and prevent the economy from overheating, the PRC government adopted a number of tightening macroeconomic measures and monetary policies, including increasing interest rates, raising statutory reserve rates for banks and controlling bank lending to certain industries and economic sectors. Due in part to the impact of the global crisis in financial services and credit markets and other factors, the growth rate of China’s gross domestic product decreased to as low as 6.2% in the first quarter of 2009, down from 11.9% reached in the second quarter of 2007. As a result, beginning in September 2008, among other measures, the PRC government began to loosen macroeconomic measures and monetary policies by reducing interest rates and decreasing the statutory reserve rates for banks and in November 2008 the PRC government announced an economic stimulus package in the amount of $586 billion. The Chinese economy once again experienced high inflation in 2010, with China’s consumer price index reaching 5.1% in November 2010, the highest level in 28 months. To curb the accelerating inflation, the People’s Bank of China, or the PBOC, China’s central bank, raised benchmark interest rates in October and December of 2010 and in February of 2011 and raised the reserve ratio required for major Chinese banks in February of 2011, for the fifth time in four months. The various macroeconomic measures and monetary policies adopted by the PRC government to guide economic growth and the allocation of resources may not be effective in sustaining the current growth rate of the Chinese economy. In addition, such measures, even if they benefit the overall Chinese economy in the long run, may have an adverse effect on Changyou if they reduce the disposable income of its game players. Uncertainties with respect to the Chinese legal system could have a material adverse effect on Changyou. Changyou conducts substantially all of its operations through its wholly foreign-owned subsidiaries in the PRC, AmazGame, Gamespace and ICE WFOE and its variable interest entities in the PRC, Gamease, Guanyou Gamespace and Shanghai ICE. The PRC subsidiaries of Changyou are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China and, in particular, laws applicable to WFOEs. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since these laws and regulations are relatively new and the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involves uncertainties. We cannot predict the effect of future developments in the PRC legal system, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, the preemption of local regulations by national laws, or the overturn of local government’s decisions by the higher level government. These uncertainties may limit legal protections available to Changyou. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. 81 Table of Contents Contract drafting, interpretation and enforcement in China involve significant uncertainty. Changyou has entered into numerous contracts governed by PRC law, many of which are material to its business. As compared with contracts in the United States, contracts governed by PRC law tend to contain less detail and are not as comprehensive in defining contracting parties’ rights and obligations. As a result, contracts in China are more vulnerable to disputes and legal challenges. In addition, contract interpretation and enforcement in China is not as developed as in the United States, and the result of any contract dispute is subject to significant uncertainties. Therefore, there is no assurance that Changyou will not be subject to disputes under its material contracts, and if such disputes arise, there is no assurance that Changyou will prevail. Due to the materiality of certain contracts to Changyou’s business, such as the license agreements with Louis Cha regarding Changyou’s rights to develop and operate TLBB and DMD, any dispute involving such contracts, even without merit, may materially and adversely affect Changyou’s reputation and its business operations, and may cause the price of its ADSs to decline. There are significant uncertainties under the new corporate income tax law of the PRC, or the New CIT Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008, regarding Changyou’s PRC enterprise income tax liabilities, such as tax on dividends paid to Changyou by its PRC subsidiaries. The New CIT Law also contains uncertainties regarding possible PRC withholding tax on dividends Changyou pays to its overseas shareholders and gains realized from the transfer of its shares by its overseas shareholders. Changyou is a holding company incorporated in the Cayman Islands, which indirectly holds, through its Hong Kong subsidiaries Changyou.com HK Limited, or Changyou HK, and ICE Entertainment (HK) Limited, or ICE HK, its equity interest in AmazGame, Gamespace and ICE WFOE, its subsidiaries in the PRC. The business operations of Changyou are principally conducted through these PRC subsidiaries and its VIEs Gamease, Guanyou Gamespace and Shanghai ICE. The New CIT Law and its implementation rules, both of which became effective on January 1, 2008, provide that China-sourced income of foreign enterprises, such as dividends paid by a PRC subsidiary to its overseas parent, will normally be subject to PRC withholding tax at a rate of 10%, unless there are applicable tax treaties that reduce such rate. Under the Arrangement Between the PRC and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region on the Avoidance of Double Taxation and Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income and Capital (or China-HK Tax Arrangement), which became effective on January 1, 2007, the dividend withholding tax rate may be reduced to 5% if a Hong Kong resident enterprise is considered a non-PRC resident enterprise and holds at least 25% of the equity interests in the PRC enterprise distributing the dividends subject to approval of the PRC local tax authority. However, if the Hong Kong resident enterprise is not considered to be the beneficial owner of such dividends under applicable PRC tax regulations, such dividends may remain subject to withholding tax at a rate of 10%. On October 27, 2009, the PRC State Administration of Taxation issued a Notice on How to Understand and Determine the Beneficial Owners in Tax Agreement (or Circular 601), which provides guidance on determining whether an enterprise is a “beneficial owner” under China’s tax treaties and tax arrangement. Circular 601 provides that, in order to be a beneficial owner, an entity generally must be engaged in substantive business activities. It also sets forth a list of factors, the existence of which generally does not provide support that the treaty resident is a beneficial owner. An agent or conduit company, which refers to a company that is set up for the purpose of avoiding or reducing taxes or transferring or accumulating profits, will not be regarded as a beneficial owner and, therefore, will not qualify for treaty benefits such as preferential dividend withholding tax rates. If any of our Hong Kong subsidiaries is, in the light of Circular 601, considered to be a non-beneficial owner for purposes of the China-HK Tax Arrangement, any dividends paid to it by any of our PRC subsidiaries would not qualify for the preferential dividend withholding tax rate of 5%, but rather would be subject to the usual New CIT Law rate of 10%. Under the New CIT Law, enterprises established under the laws of jurisdictions outside China with their “de facto management bodies” located within China may be considered to be PRC tax resident enterprises for tax purposes. A substantial majority of the members of Changyou’s management team as well as the management teams of Changyou HK and ICE HK are located in China. If Changyou, Changyou HK or ICE HK is considered as a PRC tax resident enterprise under the above definition, then Changyou’s global income will be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at the rate of 25%. 82 Table of Contents Furthermore, the implementation rules of the New CIT Law provide that, (i) if the enterprise that distributes dividends is domiciled in the PRC, or (ii) if gains are realized from transferring equity interests of enterprises domiciled in the PRC, then such dividends or capital gains are treated as China-sourced income. It is not clear how “domicile” may be interpreted under the New CIT Law, and it may be interpreted as the jurisdiction where the enterprise is a tax resident. It is not clear whether Changyou, Changyou HK and ICE HK will be deemed as tax resident under the New CIT Law. Although Changyou intends to take the position that any dividends it pays to its overseas shareholders or ADS holders will not be subject to a withholding tax in the PRC, if Changyou, Changyou HK and ICE HK are considered as a PRC tax resident enterprise for tax purposes, any dividends Changyou pays to its overseas shareholders or ADS holders as well as gains realized by such shareholders or ADS holders from the transfer of its shares or ADSs may be regarded as China-sourced income and as a result be subject to PRC withholding tax at the rate up to 10%. As the New CIT Law and the implementation rules have only recently taken effect, it is uncertain as to how they will be implemented by the relevant PRC tax authorities. If dividend payments from Changyou HK or ICE HK to Changyou are subject to PRC withholding tax, Changyou’s financial condition, results of operations and the amount of dividends available to pay our shareholders may be adversely affected. If dividends Changyou pays to its overseas shareholders or ADS holders or gains realized by such shareholders or ADS holders from the transfer of its shares or ADSs are subject to PRC withholding tax, it may materially and adversely affect their investment return and the value of their investments in Changyou. Certain of the PRC subsidiaries and VIEs of Changyou are qualified as “software enterprises” and enjoy tax benefits under the New CIT Law. However, there is no assurance that Changyou will be able to continue to enjoy such tax benefits. If the status of any of Changyou’s PRC subsidiaries or VIEs as a “software enterprise” is repealed, Changyou may have to pay additional taxes to make up any previously unpaid tax and may be subject to a higher tax rate, which may materially and adversely affect its results of operations. The New CIT Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008, applies a uniform statutory income tax rate of 25% to enterprises in China. The New CIT Law and the implementation rules promulgated under the New CIT Law provide that “software enterprises” enjoy an income tax exemption for two years beginning with their first profitable year and a 50% tax reduction to a rate of 12.5% for the subsequent three years. Both AmazGame and Gamease were established in 2007, were qualified as “software enterprises” in 2008 and were subject to 0% income tax rate for the full year 2008 and a 50% tax reduction for the following three years. Both ICE WFOE and Shanghai ICE were qualified as “software enterprises” in 2008 and both Gamespace and Guanyou Gamespace were qualified as “software enterprises” in 2010. ICE WFOE, Shanghai ICE, Gamespace and Guanyou Gamespace will enjoy the income tax benefits as software enterprises from their first profitable year. As the New CIT Law and its implementation rules have only recently taken effect, there are uncertainties on their future interpretation and implementation. There is no assurance that the qualification of AmazGame, Gamease, Gamespace, Guanyou Gamespace, ICE WFOE and Shanghai ICE as “software enterprises” by the relevant authorities will not be challenged in the future by their supervising authorities and be repealed, or that there will not be future implementation rules that are inconsistent with current interpretation of the New CIT Law. If the tax benefits AmazGame, Gamease, Gamespace, Guanyou Gamespace, ICE WFOE and Shanghai ICE enjoy as “software enterprises” are revoked, and Changyou is otherwise unable to qualify AmazGame, Gamease, Gamespace, Guanyou Gamespace, ICE WFOE and Shanghai ICE for other income tax exemptions or reductions, its effective income tax rate will increase significantly. In addition, Changyou may have to pay additional taxes to make up any previously unpaid tax. As a result, the operating results of Changyou could be materially and adversely affected. 83 Table of Contents To fund any cash requirements, Changyou may need to rely on dividends, loans or advances made by its PRC subsidiaries, AmazGame, Gamespace and ICE WFOE, which are subject to limitations and possible taxation under applicable PRC laws and regulations. Changyou may rely on dividends and other distributions on equity, or loans and advances made by its Chinese subsidiaries, AmazGame, Gamespace and ICE WFOE, to fund any cash requirements, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions, if any, to its shareholders or ADS holders, and to service any debt it may incur. The distribution of dividends and the making of loans and advances by entities organized in China are subject to limitations. Regulations in the PRC currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with accounting standards and regulations in China. Each of AmazGame, Gamespace and ICE WFOE is also required to set aside at least 10% of its after-tax profit based on PRC accounting standards each year to its general reserves until the cumulative amount of such reserves reaches 50% of its registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends, loans or advances. AmazGame, Gamespace and ICE WFOE may also allocate a portion of their after-tax profits, as determined by their Boards of Directors, to their staff welfare and bonus funds, which may not be distributed to Changyou. In addition, if any of AmazGame, Gamespace and ICE WFOE incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to Changyou. Furthermore, under regulations of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or the SAFE, the RMB is not convertible into foreign currencies for capital account items, such as loans, repatriation of investments and investments outside of China, unless the prior approval of the SAFE is obtained and prior registration with the SAFE is made. In addition, there are uncertainties under the New CIT Law with regard to the PRC withholding tax on dividends paid by AmazGame, Gamespace and ICE WFOE to Changyou HK or ICE HK. Should such dividends be subject to PRC withholding tax or be subject to the usual New CIT Law withholding tax rate of 10% rather than the preferential dividend withholding tax rate of 5% provided under the China-HK Tax Arrangement, the amount of cash available to Changyou for its cash needs, including for the payment of dividends to its shareholders or ADS holders, would be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, Changyou controls its operating entities in China, Gamease, Guanyou Gamespace and Shanghai ICE, through contractual arrangements rather than equity ownership. AmazGame entered into a Technology Development and Support Agreement and an Operation and Maintenance Agreement with Gamease, pursuant to which Gamease will pay AmazGame for the services AmazGame provides to Gamease. Gamespace entered into a Technology Development and Support Agreement and an Operation and Maintenance Agreement with Guanyou Gamespace, pursuant to which Guanyou Gamespace will pay Gamespace for the services Gamespace provides to Guanyou Gamespace. ICE WFOE entered into an Exclusive Business Cooperation Agreement, an Exclusive Technology Consulting and Service Agreement and a Business Operation Agreement with Shanghai ICE, pursuant to which Shanghai ICE will pay ICE WFOE for the services ICE WFOE provides to Shanghai ICE. To the extent that there is any distributable profit in Gamease, Guanyou Gamespace or Shanghai ICE, it may be difficult for Gamease, Guanyou Gamespace or Shanghai ICE to distribute such profit to AmazGame, Gamespace or ICE WFOE, which may further limit the amount that AmazGame, Gamespace or ICE WFOE can distribute to Changyou. 84 Table of Contents Fluctuation in the value of the RMB may have a material adverse effect on Changyou’s shareholders’ investment. The change in value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar, Euro and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the RMB to the U.S. dollar. Under the policy, the RMB is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in an approximately 21.3% appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar between July 21, 2005 and December 31, 2009. Provisions on Administration of Foreign Exchange, as amended in August 2008, further changed China’s exchange regime to a managed floating exchange rate regime based on market supply and demand. While the international reaction to the RMB revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar. On June 19, 2010, the PBOC announced that it had decided to proceed further with the reform of the RMB exchange rate regime to enhance the flexibility of the RMB exchange rate and that emphasis would be placed on reflecting market supply and demand with reference to a basket of currencies. While so indicating its intention to make the RMB’s exchange rate more flexible, the PBOC ruled out any sharp fluctuations in the currency or a one-off adjustment. Shortly after this announcement, the center point of the currency’s official trading band broke through the 6.8 barrier to hit 6.7969 to the U.S. dollar; it broke through the 6.6 barrier to hit 6.5891 in January 2011; the appreciation is 3% in total, which is the highest center point of the past five years. As substantially all of the costs and expenses of Changyou are denominated in RMB, the revision in exchange rate policy effected in July 2005 has increased, and potential future revisions could further increase, the costs and expenses of Changyou in U.S. dollar terms. Changyou’s proceeds from overseas financings, such as its initial public offering, and from overseas games operations will decrease in value if Changyou chooses not to or are unable to convert the proceeds into RMB and the RMB appreciates against the U.S. dollar, which may reduce the value of a shareholder’s investment in its ADSs. Regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may limit Changyou’s ability to acquire PRC companies and could adversely affect its business. In October 2005, SAFE promulgated Relevant Issues Concerning Foreign Exchange Control on Domestic Residents’ Corporate Financing and Roundtrip Investment Through Offshore Special Purpose Vehicles, or Circular 75, which states that if PRC residents use assets of, or equity interests in their PRC entities as capital contributions to establish offshore companies or inject assets of, or equity interests in, their PRC entities into offshore companies to raise capital overseas, they must register with local SAFE branches with respect to their overseas investments in offshore companies. They must also file amendments to their registrations if their offshore companies experience material events involving capital variation, such as changes in share capital, share transfers, mergers and acquisitions, spin-off transactions, long-term equity or debt investments or uses of assets in China to guarantee offshore obligations. Under this regulation, their failure to comply with the registration procedures set forth in such regulation may result in restrictions being imposed on the foreign exchange activities of the relevant PRC entity, including the payment of dividends and other distributions to its offshore parent, as well as restrictions on capital inflows from the offshore entity to the PRC entity. Prior to its initial publicly offering, Changyou has requested that its shareholders who were PRC residents make the necessary applications, filings and amendments as required under Circular 75 and other related rules. Changyou attempts to comply with the relevant requirements. However, Changyou cannot provide any assurances that all of its shareholders who are PRC residents will comply with its request to make or obtain any applicable registrations or comply with other requirements required by Circular 75 or other related rules. Any future failure by any our shareholders of Changyou who is a PRC resident, or controlled by a PRC resident, to comply with relevant requirements under this regulation could subject Changyou to fines or sanctions imposed by the PRC government, including restrictions on the ability of AmazGame, Gamespace and ICE WFOE to pay dividends or make distributions to it and its ability to increase its investment in AmazGame, Gamespace and ICE WFOE. 85 Table of Contents SAFE rules and regulations may limit Changyou’s ability to transfer the net proceeds from its initial public offering or other overseas financings to Gamease, Guanyou Gamespace and Shanghai ICE, its VIEs in the PRC, which may adversely affect the business expansion of Gamease, Guanyou Gamespace and Shanghai ICE, and Changyou may not be able to convert the net proceeds from its initial public offering into RMB to invest in or acquire any other PRC companies, or establish other VIEs in the PRC. On August 29, 2008, SAFE promulgated Circular 142, a notice regulating the conversion by a foreign-invested company of foreign currency into RMB by restricting how the converted RMB may be used. The notice requires that the registered capital of a foreign-invested company settled in RMB converted from foreign currencies may only be used for purposes within the business scope approved by the applicable governmental authority and may not be used for equity investments within the PRC. In addition, SAFE strengthened its oversight of the flow and use of the registered capital of a foreign-invested company settled in RMB converted from foreign currencies. The use of such RMB capital may not be changed without SAFE’s approval, and may not in any case be used to repay RMB loans if the proceeds of such loans have not been used. Violations of Circular 142 will result in severe penalties, such as heavy fines. As a result, Circular 142 may significantly limit Changyou’s ability to transfer the net proceeds from its initial public offering to Gamease, Guanyou Gamespace and Shanghai ICE through its subsidiaries in the PRC, which may adversely affect the business expansion of Gamease, Guanyou Gamespace and Shanghai ICE, and Changyou may not be able to convert the net proceeds from its initial public offering into RMB to invest in or acquire any other PRC companies, or establish other VIEs in the PRC. Changyou may be subject to fines and legal sanctions if it or its employees who are PRC citizens fail to comply with recent PRC regulations relating to employee stock options granted by overseas listed companies to PRC citizens. On December 25, 2006, the PBOC issued the Administration Measures on Individual Foreign Exchange Control, and its Implementation Rules were issued by SAFE on January 5, 2007, which both have taken effect on February 1, 2007. Under these regulations, all foreign exchange matters involved in an employee stock holding plan, stock option plan or similar plan in which PRC citizens’ participation requires approval from the SAFE or its authorized branch. On March 28, 2007, SAFE promulgated the Application Procedure of Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Holding Plan or Stock Option Plan of Overseas Listed Company, or the Stock Option Rule. Under the Stock Option Rule, PRC citizens who are granted stock options or restricted share units, or issued restricted shares by an overseas publicly listed company are required, through a PRC agent or PRC subsidiary of such overseas publicly listed company, to complete certain other procedures and transactional foreign exchange matters upon the examination by, and approval of, SAFE. Changyou and its employees who are PRC citizens and have been granted stock options or restricted share units, or issued restricted shares are subject to the Stock Option Rule. Changyou and its employees intend to make such application and complete all the requisite procedures in accordance with the Stock Option Rule. However, Changyou cannot assure that it can complete all the procedures in a timely manner. If the relevant PRC regulatory authority determines that Changyou’s PRC employees who hold such options, restricted share units or restricted shares or their PRC employer fail to comply with these regulations, such employees and their PRC employer may be subject to fines and other legal sanctions. Changyou is a Cayman Islands company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than that under U.S. law, its shareholders may have less protection for their shareholder rights than they would under U.S. law. The corporate affairs of Changyou are governed by its memorandum and articles of association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against Changyou’s directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of its directors to it under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of Changyou’s shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of its directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands have a less developed body of securities laws. 86 Table of Contents Holders of Changyou’s ADSs may have difficulty enforcing judgments obtained against Changyou. Changyou is a Cayman Islands company and all of its assets are located outside the United States. Substantially all of the current operations of Changyou are conducted in the PRC. In addition, all of the directors and executive officers of Changyou are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for holders of Changyou’s ADSs to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for holders of Changyou’s ADSs to enforce in Cayman Islands courts or PRC courts judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against Changyou and its officers and directors, most of whom are not residents in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands or the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments. Changyou is a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NASDAQ Stock Market Rules and, as a result, it relies on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements that provide protection to shareholders of other companies. Because Sohu owns more than 50% of the total voting power of the ordinary shares of Changyou, Changyou is a “controlled company” under the NASDAQ Stock Market Rules. Changyou relies on certain exemptions that are available to controlled companies from NASDAQ corporate governance requirements, including the requirements: • that it has a corporate governance and nominating committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; • that it has a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; and • for an annual performance evaluation of the nominating and governance committee and compensation committee. Changyou is not required to and will not voluntarily meet these requirements. As a result of the use of the “controlled company” exemptions, holders of Changyou’s ADSs will not have the same protection afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of NASDAQ’s corporate governance requirements. The market price for Changyou’s ADSs has been and may continue to be volatile. The trading price of Changyou’s ADSs has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. During the period from April 2, 2009, the first day of trading of Changyou’s ADSs on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, until February 25, 2011, the trading price of Changyou’s ADSs has ranged from $19.00 to $48.37 per ADS, and the closing sale price on February 25, 2011 was $37.58 per ADS. The market price for Changyou’s ADSs may continue to be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: • announcements of competitive developments, including new games by the competitors of Changyou; • regulatory developments in Changyou’s target markets affecting Changyou, its customers or its competitors; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in the quarterly operating results of Changyou; • failure of Changyou’s quarterly financial and operating results to meet market expectations or failure to meet its previously announced guidance; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other Internet or online game companies; • additions or departures of Changyou’s executive officers and other key personnel; • announcements regarding intellectual property litigation (or potential litigation) involving Changyou or any of its directors and officers; 87 Table of Contents • fluctuations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the RMB; • release or expiration of transfer restrictions on the outstanding ordinary shares and ADSs of Changyou; and • sales or perceived sales of additional shares or ADSs. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular industries or companies. Such market fluctuations may have a material adverse effect on the market price of Changyou’s ADSs. Holders of Changyou’s ADSs may be subject to limitations on transfer of their ADSs. Changyou’s ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems it expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when Changyou’s books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if Changyou or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the Deposit Agreement, or for any other reason. Holders of Changyou’s ADSs have limited voting rights and may not receive voting materials in time to be able to exercise their right to vote. Except as described in Changyou’s annual report and in the Deposit Agreement, holders of Changyou’s ADSs will not be able to exercise voting rights attaching to the shares represented by the ADSs on an individual basis. Holders of Changyou’s ADSs may instruct the depositary how to exercise the voting rights attaching to the shares represented by the ADSs. Holders may not receive voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote, and it is possible that direct holders of ADSs, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, will not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote. In addition, due to the different voting powers attached to the two classes of Changyou’s ordinary shares, the controlling shareholder of Changyou, Sohu, its Chief Executive Officer, or CEO, Tao Wang, and certain of its directors, officers and key employees, all of which hold its Class B ordinary shares, control 98% of the combined total voting power of its ordinary shares. As a result, the ability of holders of Changyou’s ADSs to affect the outcome of any matter subject to shareholder vote is very limited. Changyou’s ADS holders’ right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to their holdings and Changyou’s ADS holders may not receive cash dividends if it is impractical to make them available to such holders. Changyou may from time to time distribute rights to its shareholders, including rights to acquire its securities. However, Changyou cannot make rights available to ADS holders in the United States unless it registers the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act of 1933, or the Securities Act, or an exemption from registration requirements is available. Also, under the Deposit Agreement, the depositary bank will not make rights available to ADS holders unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act or exempted from registration under the Securities Act. Changyou is under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, Changyou may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, holders of Changyou’s ADSs may be unable to participate in Changyou’s rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings. In addition, the depositary of Changyou’s ADSs has agreed to pay to ADS holders the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on its ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. ADS holders will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares such holders’ ADSs represent. However, the depositary may, at its discretion, decide that it is inequitable or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, the depositary may determine that it is not practicable to distribute certain property through the mail, or that the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them, or that the distribution requires certain governmental approval, such as requirement for registration or approval for currency conversion. In these cases, the depositary may decide not to distribute that property and ADSs holders will not receive that distribution. 88 Table of Contents Holders of Changyou’s ADSs will experience dilution when additional Class A ordinary shares or Class B ordinary shares are issued in settlement of restricted share units or upon exercise of options. Holders of Changyou’s ADSs will experience dilution to the extent that additional Class A ordinary shares are issued upon settlement of restricted share units or exercise of outstanding options that Changyou may grant from time to time. As of February 28, 2011, there were 885,000 Class B restricted share units outstanding, with each such restricted share unit settleable upon vesting by the issuance of one Class B ordinary share, and 1,379,200 Class A restricted share units outstanding, with each such restricted share unit settleable upon vesting by the issuance of one Class A ordinary share. Changyou may need additional capital and may sell additional ADSs or other equity securities or incur indebtedness, which could result in additional dilution to its shareholders or increase its debt service obligations. Changyou may require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions it may decide to pursue. If the cash resources of Changyou are insufficient to satisfy its cash requirements, it may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities or equity-linked debt securities could result in additional dilution to Changyou’s shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict the operations of Changyou. Changyou cannot assure that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to it, if at all. Substantial future sales of the ADSs or ordinary shares of Changyou in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the price of its ADSs to decline. Additional sales of the ADSs or ordinary shares of Changyou in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of its ADSs to decline. As of February 28, 2011, there were 20,013,000 of Changyou’s Class A ordinary shares and 84,650,000 of its Class B ordinary shares outstanding. As of February 28, 2011, there were 885,000 Class B restricted share units outstanding, with each such restricted share unit settleable upon vesting by the issuance of one Class B ordinary share, and 1,379,200 Class A restricted share units outstanding, with each such restricted share unit settleable upon vesting by the issuance of one Class A ordinary share. In addition, Changyou may grant or sell additional options, restricted shares or other share-based awards in the future under our share incentive plan to its management, employees and other persons, the settlement and sale of which may further dilute its shares and drive down the price of its ADSs. Changyou might be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which would result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders of its ADSs or Class A ordinary shares. A non-U.S. corporation will be considered a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for any taxable year if either (i) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or (ii) at least 50% of the value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets during a taxable year) is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. Changyou expects that it will not be treated as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our current taxable year ending December 31, 2011. Our expectation is based on its current and anticipated operations and composition of its earnings and assets (including goodwill) for the 2011 taxable year, including the current and expected valuation of its assets based on the market price of its ADSs. However, Changyou currently holds, and expect to continue to hold following this annual report, a substantial amount of cash and the value of its other assets may be based in part on the market price of its ADSs, which is likely to fluctuate in the future (and may fluctuate considerably given that market prices of Internet and online game companies historically have been especially volatile). Furthermore, it is not entirely clear how the contractual arrangements between Changyou and its consolidated variable interest entities will be treated for purposes of the PFIC rules. In addition, the actual PFIC status of Changyou for any taxable year will not be determinable until the close of such taxable year. Accordingly, there is no guarantee that Changyou will not be a PFIC for any taxable year. PFIC status depends on the composition of the assets and income of Changyou and the value of its assets (including, among others, a pro rata portion of the income and assets of each subsidiary in which it owns, directly or indirectly, at least 25% (by value) of the equity interest) from time to time. If Changyou was treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a United States holder held an ADS or a Class A ordinary share, certain adverse United States federal income tax consequences could apply to the U.S. holder. 89 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 