Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to the Extensive Regulation of Our Business If we fail to comply with the extensive regulatory requirements for our business, we could face significant restrictions on our operations and monetary penalties, including loss of access to federal loans and grants for our learners on which we are substantially dependent. As a provider of higher education, we are subject to extensive U.S. regulation on both the federal and state levels. In particular, the Higher Education Act, as reauthorized by the Higher Education Opportunity Act in August 2008, and related regulations impose significant regulatory scrutiny on Capella University, and all other higher education institutions that participate in the various federal student financial aid programs under Title IV of the Higher Education Act (Title IV programs). In 2010, we derived approximately 78% of our revenues (calculated on a cash basis) from Title IV programs, administered by the U.S. Department of Education. A significant percentage of our learners rely on the availability of Title IV program funds to cover their cost of attendance at Capella University and related educational expenses. These regulatory requirements cover virtually all phases of our operations, including educational program offerings, facilities, instructional and administrative staff, administrative procedures, marketing and recruiting, financial operations, payment of refunds to the Department, for learners who withdraw commencement of new educational programs and changes in our corporate structure and ownership. The Higher Education Act, as reauthorized, mandates specific regulatory responsibilities for each of the following components of the higher education regulatory triad: (1) the U.S. federal government through the U.S. Department of Education; (2) independent accrediting agencies recognized by the U.S. Secretary of Education; and (3) state education regulatory bodies. The regulations, standards and policies of these regulatory agencies frequently change and are subject to interpretation, particularly where they are crafted for traditional schools rather than our on-line academic delivery model. Changes in, or new interpretations of, applicable laws, regulations, or standards could have a material adverse effect on our accreditation, authorization to operate in various states, permissible activities, receipt of funds under Title IV programs, or costs of doing business. We cannot predict with certainty how all of the requirements applied by these agencies will be interpreted or whether we will be able to comply with these requirements in the future. If we are found to be in noncompliance with any of these regulations, standards or policies, any one of the relevant regulatory agencies may be able to do one or more of the following: • impose monetary fines or penalties; • limit or terminate our operations or ability to grant degrees and diplomas; • restrict or revoke our accreditation, licensure or other approval to operate; • limit, suspend or terminate our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs or state financial aid programs; • require repayment of funds received under Title IV programs or state financial aid programs; • require us to post a letter of credit with the U.S. Department of Education; • subject us to heightened cash monitoring by the U.S. Department of Education; • transfer us from the U.S. Department of Education’s advance system of receiving Title IV program funds to its reimbursement system, under which a school must disburse its own funds to learners and document the learners’ eligibility for Title IV program funds before receiving such funds from the U.S. Department of Education; • subject us to other civil or criminal penalties; and/or • subject us to other forms of censure. In addition, in some circumstances of noncompliance or alleged noncompliance, we may be subject to qui tam lawsuits under the Federal False Claims Act. In these actions, private plaintiffs seek to enforce remedies under the Act on behalf of the U.S. and, if successful, are entitled to recover their costs and to receive a portion of any amounts recovered by the U.S. in the lawsuit. These lawsuits can be prosecuted by a private plaintiff in respect of some action taken by us, even if the Department of Education does not agree with plaintiff’s theory of liability. Any of the penalties, injunctions, restrictions or other forms of censure listed above could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we lose our Title IV eligibility, we would experience a dramatic and adverse decline in revenue and we would be unable to continue our business as it currently is conducted. 21 Table of Contents Recent rulemaking by the U.S. Department of Education could result in regulatory changes that materially and adversely affect our business. In November 2009, the U.S. Department of Education (the Department) convened two new negotiated rulemaking teams related to Title IV program integrity issues and foreign school issues. The team addressing program integrity issues, which included representatives of the various higher education constituencies, was unable to reach consensus on all of the rules addressed by that team. Accordingly, under the negotiated rulemaking protocol, the Department was free to propose rules without regard to the tentative agreement reached regarding certain of the rules. The final program integrity rules address numerous topics. The most significant for our business are the following: • Modification of the standards relating to the payment of incentive compensation to employees involved in learner recruitment and enrollment, including executive management; • Implementation of standards for state authorization of institutions of higher education; and • Adoption of a definition of “gainful employment” for purposes of the requirement for Title IV student financial aid that a program of study offered by a proprietary institution prepare learners for gainful employment in a recognized occupation. Certain other topics addressed in program integrity rules could also impact our business, including the definition of credit hour for purposes of determining program eligibility for Title IV student financial aid, particularly in the context of distance learning and changes in the calculation of return of Title IV funds based on the last date of learner participation instead of learner drop date. On June 18, 2010, the Department issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (“NPRM”) in respect of the program integrity issues, other than the metrics for determining compliance with the gainful employment requirement. On July 26, 2010, the Department published a separate NPRM in respect of the gainful employment metrics. The Department published final regulations on October 29, 2010, excluding significant sections related to gainful employment metrics which the Department has indicated that it expects to publish in early calendar year 2011. The final regulations, including some reporting and disclosure rules related to gainful employment described below will be effective July 1, 2011. Incentive Compensation A school participating in Title IV programs may not pay any commission, bonus or other incentive payments to any person involved in learner recruitment or admissions or awarding of Title IV program funds, if such payments are based directly or indirectly in any part on success in enrolling learners or obtaining student financial aid. The law and regulations governing this requirement do not establish clear criteria for compliance in all circumstances, but there currently are twelve safe harbors that define specific types of compensation that are deemed to constitute permissible incentive compensation. Currently, we rely on several of these safe harbors to ensure that our compensation and recruitment practices comply with the applicable requirements. In the final regulations adopted by the Department, these twelve safe harbors are eliminated and, in lieu of the safe harbors, some of the relevant concepts relating to the incentive compensation limitations are defined. These changes increase the uncertainty about what constitutes incentive compensation and which employees are covered by the regulation. This makes the development of effective and compliant performance metrics, including those applicable to the Company’s executive management, more difficult to establish. In response to the Department’s concern about the impact of compensation structures that rely on the current safe harbors and in order to enhance the admissions process for our learners, in 2010 we began considering an alternative compensation structure for our admissions personnel. We developed this new structure, which we believe complies with the Department’s new rule, over the past twelve months and implemented it on a broad scale during at the end of 2010. In connection with this, we eliminated enrollment results as a component of compensation for our admissions personnel effective January 1, 2011, a practice previously allowed under the safe harbors. We believe this change in our approach to recruiting, with reduced emphasis on enrollment and increased emphasis on improving the learner experience, may have adversely impacted our enrollment rates, particularly in the near-term, and increase our operating costs, perhaps materially. We believe this change is in the best interests of our learners and it is consistent with our consultative approach with prospective learners and our on-going efforts to lead the industry in addressing the concerns of the Department and others, including members of Congress, about admissions practices in the proprietary sector. State Authorization In the U.S., institutions that participate in Title IV programs must be authorized to operate by the appropriate postsecondary regulatory authority in each state where the institution has a physical presence, or be exempt from such regulatory authorization, usually based on recognized accreditation. As of December 31, 2010, Capella University is authorized to operate in 18 states. In certain states, Capella University is qualified to operate without specific state regulatory approval due to available state exemptions that permit such operation if certain programmatic or other accreditation criteria are met. Under new regulations adopted by the U.S. Department of 22 Table of Contents Education, we may be required to seek and obtain specific regulatory approval to operate in some of those states and would no longer be entitled to rely on available exemptions based on accreditation. We have no assurance that any such state would be willing or able to adopt such additional statutes or regulations or that we would be able to complete the approval process in such state in order to obtain specific state regulatory approval before the effective date of the final regulations on July 1, 2011. While there are annual waivers available in the final regulations that could allow us to continue to operate without specific state approvals through July 1, 2013, we have no assurance that the waivers will be granted. If we experience a delay in obtaining or cannot obtain these approvals or waivers, our business could be adversely impacted. As a result, the manner in which the Department’s final regulation will apply to our business, and the impact of such regulation on our business, is uncertain. If we are unable to operate in a manner that would preserve Title IV eligibility for our learners in impacted states, our business could be materially and adversely impacted. Gainful Employment Under the Higher Education Act, as reauthorized, proprietary schools are eligible to participate in Title IV programs only in respect of educational programs that lead to “gainful employment in a recognized occupation.” Historically, this concept has not been defined in detailed regulations. On October 29, 2010, the Department published final regulations covering a portion of the proposed gainful employment rules with an effective date of July 1, 2011. These rules would require proprietary institutions of higher education and public or not-for profit institutions offering postsecondary non-degree programs to provide prospective learners with each eligible program’s occupations, costs, completion rate, job placement rate, and median loan debt of program completers. Institutions must annually submit information to the Department on learners who complete a program leading to gainful employment in a recognized occupation, including learner and program information, amount from private loans or institutional finance plans, matriculation information, and end of year enrollment information. Additionally, the final regulations require institutions to notify the Department at least 90 days before the first day of class when it intends to offer new educational programs leading to gainful employment in recognized occupations. New program notification includes information on the demand for the program, wage analysis, institutional program review and approval process, and demonstration of approval through the schools accreditation. Unless the Department requires approval for new programs, a school is not required to get approval after notification is submitted. If such approval is required, an alert notice will be sent to the school at least 30 days before the first day of class with a request for additional information. If a new program is denied, the Department will explain how the program failed and provide an opportunity for the school to respond or request reconsideration. In its July 26, 2010 NPRM, the U.S. Department of Education published proposed rules that would define gainful employment in detail, which rules would apply on a program-by-program basis. The Department has indicated that it expects to publish final regulations related to gainful employment metrics in early calendar year 2011. Under the July 26, 2010 proposed rules, gainful employment in respect of a particular program would be defined by reference to two debt-related tests: one based on student debt service-to-income ratios for program graduates, and the other based on learner loan repayment rates for program enrollees. Based on the application of these tests, a program may be eligible to participate in Title IV programs without restriction, may be eligible to participate with disclosure requirements, may be on restricted status and only able to participate with material restrictions (including enrollment limitations), or may be ineligible to participate. The proposed debt service-to-income test measures the median annual student loan debt service of graduates of a program, as a percentage of their average annual earnings and/or their “discretionary income” (as defined), in each case measured over the preceding three years or, in some cases, the three years prior to the preceding three years. The proposed loan repayment test measures the loan repayment rate for former enrollees in (and not just graduates of) a program. The repayment rate is calculated as a percentage of all program enrollee Title IV loans that entered into repayment during the preceding four federal fiscal years that are in current repayment status, determined on a dollar weighted basis by reference to the original principal amount of such loans. A loan would be considered to be in current status if it has been fully repaid or debt service has been paid such that the principal was reduced during the preceding federal fiscal year. Under the proposed tests, if a program’s median annual student loan debt service is less than 8% of average annual earnings or less than 20% of average annual discretionary income, and the program’s loan repayment rate is at least 45%, the program would be eligible to participate in Title IV programs with no new disclosure requirements. If a program’s median annual student loan debt service is above 12% of average annual earnings and above 30% of average annual discretionary income based on the preceding three years, and the program’s loan repayment rate is below 35%, the program would be ineligible to participate in Title IV programs. Programs with test results between these two extremes would, depending on the precise test outcomes, either be eligible to participate with disclosure requirements, or be placed on restricted status and only eligible to participate with material restrictions (including enrollment limitations). The proposed rules provide for a two-year phase-in. For the award year beginning July 1, 2012, only the lowest-performing programs accounting for 5% of all graduates during the prior year would be subject to losing eligibility. The full application of the eligibility rules would commence with the award year beginning July 1, 2013. 23 Table of Contents The above descriptions of the proposed gainful employment rules are qualified in their entirety by the text of the proposed rules, available at http://www2.ed.gov/legislation/FedRegister/proprule/2010-3/072610a.pdf. These proposed rules are complex and their application involves many interpretive and other issues, not all of which may be addressed in any final rulemaking. If these rules are adopted in the form proposed, certain of our programs may be ineligible for Title IV funding or restricted because they do not meet at least one of the specified tests. In addition, the continuing eligibility of our educational programs for Title IV funding would be at risk due to factors beyond our control, such as changes in the income level of our graduates, increases in interest rates, changes in the federal poverty income level relevant for calculating discretionary income, changes in the percentage of our former learners who are currently in repayment of their student loans, and other factors. The exposure to these external factors would hinder our ability to effectively manage our business. If a particular program ceased to be eligible for Title IV funding, in most cases it would not be practical to continue offering that program under our current business model. Adoption of the regulations in the form proposed could result in a significant realignment of the types of educational programs that are offered by us and by other proprietary institutions, in order to comply with the rules or, most prominently, to avoid the uncertainty associated with compliance over time. This realignment could reduce our enrollment, perhaps materially. The Department has not provided access to the income and debt service information sufficient to determine the impact of these proposed gainful employment rules on our programs. In August 2010, the Department published estimated loan repayment rates for all educational institutions participating in Title IV programs, determined on an institution-wide basis. The reported estimated rate for Capella University was 40%. The actual application of the proposed loan repayment rate test would be done on a program-by-program basis and, therefore, the estimated rate for the institution is only a general guide for informational purposes. We cannot predict the form of the rules on gainful employment metrics that ultimately may be adopted by the Department following public comment. Compliance with these gainful employment rules could reduce our enrollment, increase our cost of doing business, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Action by the U.S. Congress to revise the laws governing the federal student financial aid programs or reduce funding for those programs could reduce our learner population and increase our costs of operation. The U.S. Congress must periodically reauthorize the Higher Education Act and annually determine the funding level for each Title IV program. In 2008, the Higher Education Act was reauthorized through September 30, 2013 by the Higher Education Opportunity Act. Changes to the Higher Education Act are likely to result from subsequent reauthorizations, and the scope and substance of any such changes cannot be predicted. In recent months, there has been increased focus by the U.S. Congress on the role that proprietary educational institutions play in higher education. On June 17, 2010, the Education and Labor Committee of the U.S. House of Representatives held a hearing to examine the manner in which accrediting agencies review higher education institutions’ policies on credit hours and program length. This followed a report from the Office of the Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Education in December 2009 criticizing the accreditation of a proprietary school by a regional accrediting body and requesting that the Department review the appropriateness of its recognition of the accrediting body. On June 24, 2010, the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee of the U.S. Senate (“HELP Committee”) released a report, entitled, “Emerging Risk?: An Overview of Growth, Spending, Student Debt and Unanswered Questions in For-Profit Higher Education” and held the first in a series of hearings to examine the proprietary education sector. Earlier, the Chairmen of each of these education committees, together with other members of Congress, requested the Government Accountability Office (“GAO”) to conduct a review and prepare a report with recommendations regarding various aspects of the proprietary sector, including recruitment practices, educational quality, learner outcomes, the sufficiency of integrity safeguards against waste, fraud and abuse in federal student aid programs and the degree to which proprietary institutions’ revenue is composed of Title IV and other federal funding sources. The results of a portion of this review by the GAO were reported at a HELP Committee hearing on August 4, 2010, entitled, “For Profit Schools: The Student Recruitment Experience.” Senator Tom Harkin, the Chairman of the HELP Committee, stated at the August hearing that he is concerned about the practices of proprietary schools, the increasing amount of Title IV funding received by the proprietary sector and the effectiveness of accrediting bodies in ensuring academic and other standards. In addition, Senator Harkin has stated that the recently proposed regulations by the Department of Education regarding incentive compensation of recruiting personnel, gainful employment standards and other matters, while useful, are only a start to addressing the problems he perceives in the sector. Following the August hearing, Senator Harkin requested a broad range of detailed information from 30 proprietary institutions, including Capella University. We have been and intend to continue being responsive to the requests of the HELP Committee. On September 30, 2010, the HELP Committee held a third hearing and Senator Harkin’s staff released a memorandum entitled “The Return on the Federal Investment in For-Profit Education: Debt Without a Diploma.” On December 8, 2010, Senator Harkin’s staff released a memorandum entitled “Benefitting Whom? For-Profit Education Companies and the Growth of Military Educational Benefits.” 24 Table of Contents We cannot predict what legislation, if any, will emanate from these Congressional committee hearings or what impact any such legislation might have on the proprietary education sector and our business in particular. Any action by Congress that significantly reduces Title IV program funding or the eligibility of Capella University or our learners to participate in Title IV programs would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Congressional action could also require us to modify our practices in ways that could increase our administrative costs, harm our reputation and reduce our profit margin, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If the U.S. Congress significantly reduced the amount of available Title IV program funding, we would attempt to arrange for alternative sources of financial aid for our learners, which may include lending funds directly to our learners, but it is unlikely that private sources would be able to provide as much funding to our learners on as favorable terms as is currently provided by Title IV. In addition, private organizations could require us to guarantee all or part of this assistance and we might incur other additional costs. For these reasons, private, alternative sources of student financial aid would only partly offset, if at all, the impact on our business of reduced Title IV program funding. We would lose our eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs if the percentage of our revenues derived from those programs is too high, in which event we could not conduct our business as it is currently conducted. A requirement of the Higher Education Act, as reauthorized by the Higher Education Opportunity Act, commonly referred to as the “90/10 Rule”, applies only to proprietary institutions of higher education, which includes Capella University. Under this rule, a proprietary institution will be ineligible to participate in Title IV programs if for any two consecutive fiscal years it derives more than 90% of its cash basis revenue, as defined in the rule, from Title IV programs. An institution that derives more than 90% of its revenue from Title IV programs for any single fiscal year will be automatically placed on provisional certification for two fiscal years and will be subject to possible additional sanctions determined to be appropriate under the circumstances by the U.S. Department of Education in the exercise of its broad discretion. While the Department has broad discretion to impose additional sanctions on such an institution, there is only limited precedent available to predict what those sanctions might be, particularly in the current regulatory environment. The Department could specify any additional conditions as a part of the provisional certification and the institution’s continued participation in Title IV programs. These conditions may include, among other things, restrictions on the total amount of Title IV program funds that may be distributed to learners attending the institution; restrictions on programmatic and geographic expansion; requirements to obtain and post letters of credit; additional reporting requirements to include additional interim financial reporting; or any other conditions imposed by the Department. Should an institution be subject to a provisional certification at the time that its current program participation agreement expired, the effect on recertification of the institution or continued eligibility in Title IV programs pending recertification is uncertain. An institution that derives more than 90% of its revenue from Title IV programs for two consecutive fiscal years will be ineligible to participate in Title IV programs for at least two fiscal years. Capella University is required to calculate this percentage at the end of each fiscal year; as of December 31, 2010, our percentage was 78%. If an institution is determined to be ineligible to participate in Title IV programs due to the 90/10 Rule, any disbursements of Title IV program funds while ineligible must be repaid to the Department. The 90/10 Rule percentage for Capella University has increased over the past several fiscal years and we expect further increases in the near term. These increases are primarily attributable to the following factors: • Increased student loan limits. The Ensuring Continued Access to Student Loans Act of 2008 increased the annual loan limits on federal unsubsidized student loans by $2,000 for the majority of our learners enrolled in associate’s and bachelor’s degree programs, and also increased the aggregate loan limits (over the course of a learner’s education) on total federal student loans for certain learners. The increase in student loan limits has increased the amount of Title IV program funds available to and used by our learners to pay tuition, fees and other costs. In 2008, the Department granted a three year exclusion to the 90/10 Rule for the increased annual loan limits on federal unsubsidized student loans for associate and bachelor’s learners. This exclusion is expected to expire in June 2011 and will likely increase the proportion of our revenue deemed to be from Title IV programs. • Increase in Pell Grants. The eligibility for and maximum amount of Pell Grants have increased in each of the past three years. In addition, the Higher Education Opportunity Act of 2008 further increased the availability of Pell Grants by permitting additional disbursements for learners who are continuously enrolled. These changes further increase the amount of Title IV program funds available to and used by our learners to pay tuition, fees and other costs, which, in turn, has further increased the proportion of our revenue deemed to be from Title IV programs. If we are not recertified to participate in Title IV programs by the Department of Education or if the Department otherwise suspends or terminates our certification, we would lose eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. Capella University’s current certification to participate in Title IV programs expired on December 31, 2008. We timely submitted our Title IV recertification application to the Department of Education in September 2008 and our eligibility continues on a 25 Table of Contents month-to-month basis until the Department of Education issues its decision on the application. Generally, the recertification process includes a review by the Department of Education of an institution’s educational programs and locations, administrative capability, financial responsibility, and other oversight categories. The Department of Education may also review our continued certification to participate in Title IV programs in the event we expand our activities in certain ways, such as opening an additional location or, in certain cases, if we modify the academic credentials that we offer. The Department of Education could limit, suspend or terminate our participation in Title IV programs for violations of the Higher Education Act or Title IV regulations. Title IV eligibility is critical to the continued operation of our business. If Capella University is not recertified or otherwise becomes ineligible to participate in Title IV federal student financial aid programs, we could not conduct our business as it is currently conducted and it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Congress may change the law or reduce funding for Title IV programs, which could reduce our learner population, revenues and profit margin. Congress reviews and determines appropriations for Title IV programs on an annual basis through the budget and appropriations process. Any action by Congress that significantly reduces funding for Title IV programs or the ability of our school or learners to participate in these programs could reduce the ability of certain of our learners to finance their education, and could thereby have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Congressional action may also require us to modify our practices in ways that could increase our administrative costs and reduce our profit margin, which could also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If the U.S. Congress significantly reduced the amount of available Title IV program funding, we would attempt to arrange for alternative sources of financial aid for our learners. We cannot assure that one or more private organizations would be willing or able to provide loans to learners attending Capella University, or that the interest rate and other terms of such loans would be as favorable as for Title IV program loans or acceptable to our learners, and therefore our enrollment could be materially impacted. In addition, private organizations could require us to guarantee all or part of this assistance and we might incur other additional costs. If we provided more direct financial assistance to our learners, we would incur additional costs and assume increased credit risks, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Education has an ongoing compliance audit of Capella University which may result in repayment of Title IV funds, interest, fines, penalties, remedial action and damage to our reputation in the industry. The Office of Inspector General (OIG) of the U.S. Department of Education is responsible for, among other things, promoting the effectiveness and integrity of the Department of Education’s programs and operations. With respect to educational institutions that participate in the Title IV funding programs, the OIG conducts its work primarily through compliance audits and investigations. An OIG compliance audit typically focuses upon whether an institution administers federal funds in accordance with applicable rules and regulations, whereas an investigation typically indicates a concern regarding potential fraud or abuse involving federal funds. In our case, the OIG has conducted a compliance audit (and not an investigation) of Capella University. The period under audit is the Title IV award years of 2002-2003, 2003-2004 and 2004-2005 (with each award year commencing on July 1st). The audit commenced on April 10, 2006 and we subsequently provided the OIG with periodic information, responded to follow up inquiries and facilitated site visits and access to our records. The OIG completed its field work in January 2007 and we received a draft audit report on August 23, 2007. Capella University provided written comments on the draft audit report to the OIG on September 25, 2007. On March 7, 2008, the OIG’s final report was issued to the Acting Chief Operating Officer (COO) for Federal Student Aid (FSA), which is responsible for primary oversight of the Title IV funding programs. The Company responded to the final report on April 8, 2008. In 2009, the Company provided FSA staff with certain requested information for financial aid years 2002-2003 through 2007-2008. The FSA will subsequently issue final findings and requirements for Capella University. The FSA may take certain actions, including requiring that we refund certain federal student aid funds, modify our Title IV administration procedures and pay fines or penalties. The audit primarily focused on whether we properly calculated the amount of Title IV funds required to be returned for learners who withdrew from Capella University without providing an official notification of withdrawal and without engaging in the course room prior to such withdrawal. In its final report, the OIG identified learners for whom it believes proper returns of Title IV funds were not made. Based on the final audit report, the most significant potential financial exposure from the audit relates to repayments to the Department of Education that could be required if the FSA concludes that the Company did not properly calculate the amount of Title IV funds required to be returned for learners that withdrew from Capella University without providing an official notification of such withdrawal and without engaging in the course room prior to such withdrawal. If the FSA determines that Capella University improperly withheld any portion of these funds, Capella University would be required to return the improperly withheld funds. We and the OIG have differing interpretations of the relevant regulations regarding what constitutes engagement in the unofficial withdrawal context. As we interpret the engagement requirement, we currently estimate that for the three year audit period, and for the 26 Table of Contents subsequent aid years through 2007-2008, the total amount of Title IV funds not returned—for learners who withdrew without providing official notification and without engaging as required by the relevant regulations—was approximately $1.0 million including interest, but not including fines and penalties. As part of our internal process of continuously evaluating and attempting to improve our policies and procedures, prior to the initiation of the OIG audit we had already begun modifying our policies and procedures for determining whether a learner is engaged in course room activity. We developed these policies and procedures during spring 2006 and fully implemented them for the 2006-2007 financial aid year. Based on our review and interpretation of the applicable regulations, we believe that these revised policies and procedures appropriately measure whether or not a learner has engaged prior to withdrawal without providing official notification. However, the OIG is currently interpreting the relevant regulations to require a different measure of engagement in academic activity in such circumstances. If this difference of interpretation is ultimately resolved in a manner adverse to us, then the total amount of Title IV funds not returned for learners who withdrew without providing official notification would be greater than the amount we have currently estimated. The audit also focused on our policies and procedures for disbursing Title IV funding to learners, and to a lesser extent on our communication to our learners of our satisfactory academic progress policy, our exit counseling for federal student loan recipients, and our review of learners’ financial aid histories prior to disbursing Title IV funding. See “Regulatory Environment—Regulation of Federal Student Financial Aid Programs—Compliance Reviews” for information about the OIG audit staff’s inquiries. Because of the ongoing nature of the OIG audit process, we can neither know nor predict with certainty the ultimate extent of the final audit findings, or the potential liability or remedial actions that might result. Such findings and related remedial action may have an adverse impact on our reputation in the industry, our cash flows and results of operations and our ability to recruit learners, and may have an adverse effect on our stock price. The possible effects of a finding of a regulatory violation (including refunds, fines, penalties and limitations, conditions, suspension or termination of our participation in Title IV programs) are described more fully in “Regulatory Environment—Regulation of Federal Student Financial Aid Programs—Potential Effect of Regulatory Violations.” If we fail to maintain our institutional accreditation or if our institutional accrediting body loses recognition by the U.S. Department of Education, we could lose our ability to participate in Title IV programs and lose our authorization to operate in a number of states. Capella University is accredited by The Higher Learning Commission of the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools, one of six regional accrediting agencies recognized by the Secretary of the Department of Education as a reliable indicator of educational quality. Accreditation by a recognized accrediting agency is required for an institution to become and remain eligible to participate in Title IV programs. In February 2008, we received a letter of reaffirmation from The Higher Learning Commission, effective through 2015. To remain accredited we must continuously meet certain criteria and standards relating to, among other things, performance, governance, institutional integrity, educational quality, faculty, administrative capability, resources and financial stability. Failure to meet any of these criteria or standards could result in the loss of accreditation at the discretion of The Higher Learning Commission. If the U.S. Department of Education ceased to recognize The Higher Learning Commission for any reason, Capella University would not be eligible to participate in Title IV programs beginning 18 months after the date such recognition ceased unless The Higher Learning Commission was again recognized or our institutions were accredited by another accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education. In December 2009, the OIG requested the U.S. Department of Education review the appropriateness of the U.S. Department of Education’s recognition of The Higher Learning Commission as an accrediting body, following the OIG’s unfavorable review of The Higher Learning Commission’s initial accreditation of a non-traditional, for-profit postsecondary educational institution. We cannot predict the outcome of the U.S. Department of Education’s review of The Higher Learning Commission’s recognition. Regardless of the outcome of the U.S. Department of Education’s review of The Higher Learning Commission, the focus by the OIG and the U.S. Department of Education on the process pursuant to which The Higher Learning Commission accredited a non-traditional, for-profit postsecondary educational institution may make the accreditation review process more challenging for Capella University during future review processes. If this occurs, we may have to incur additional costs and/or curtail or modify certain program offerings in order to maintain our accreditation, which could increase our costs, reduce our enrollment and materially and adversely affect our business. The loss of accreditation would, among other things, render our learners and us ineligible to participate in Title IV programs, reduce the marketability of a Capella degree, affect our authorization to operate in certain states and decrease learner demand. If Capella University became ineligible to participate in Title IV programs, we could not conduct our business as it is currently conducted and it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 27 Table of Contents If Capella University does not maintain its registration in Minnesota, it may not operate or participate in Title IV programs or operate in a number of other states. A school that grants degrees, diplomas or certificates must be authorized by the relevant education agency of the state in which it is located. Capella University is deemed to be located in the State of Minnesota and is registered with the Minnesota Office of Higher Education. State registration is also required for our learners to be eligible to receive funding under Title IV programs. Such registration may be lost or withdrawn if Capella University fails to submit renewal applications and other required submissions to the state in a timely manner, or if Capella University fails to comply with material requirements under Minnesota statutes and rules for continued registration. Loss of state registration of Capella University from the Minnesota Office of Higher Education would terminate our ability to provide educational services as well as our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. Capella must also remain in good standing with the Minnesota Office of Higher Education to obtain and maintain authorization or licensure to operate in states outside of Minnesota. Should our registration with the Minnesota Office of Higher Education be terminated, our ability to operate in other states would also cease. We are subject to sanctions if we fail to correctly calculate and timely return Title IV program funds for learners who withdraw before completing their educational program. A school participating in Title IV programs must correctly calculate the amount of unearned Title IV program funds that have been disbursed to learners who withdraw from their educational programs before completion and must return those unearned funds in a timely manner, generally within 45 days of the date the school determines that the learner has withdrawn. Under Department of Education regulations, late returns of Title IV program funds for 5% or more of learners sampled on the institution’s annual compliance audit constitutes material non-compliance. If unearned funds are not properly calculated and timely returned, an institution may have to post a letter of credit in favor of the Department of Education or otherwise be sanctioned by the Department of Education. In July 2009, an unsecured letter of credit in the amount of $1.4 million was issued under the $10.0 million line of credit in favor of the Department of Education in connection with its 2008 annual review of student lending activities. In July 2010, the Company increased the letter of credit from $1.4 million to $1.6 million to reflect the increase in the Title IV return of funds in 2009 and 2010. Regulations require that a company experience two consecutive annual Title IV compliance audits with no findings to terminate a letter of credit. While issuance of this letter of credit did not have a significant impact on our cost of regulatory compliance, any future violations or sanctions could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Current rulemaking by the Department of Education has amended the return of funds regulations to require an institution to determine the amount of Title IV program funds that a learner “earned” based on when the learner stopped participating in the course instead of when the learner withdrew from the course. The amended regulation goes into effect on July 1, 2011 and may have an impact on our systems and process and to our operations and cash flows. A failure to demonstrate “financial responsibility” may result in the loss of eligibility by Capella University to participate in Title IV programs or require the posting of a letter of credit to maintain eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. To participate in Title IV programs, an eligible institution must satisfy specific measures of financial responsibility prescribed by the Department of Education, or post a letter of credit in favor of the Department of Education and possibly accept other conditions on its participation in Title IV programs. The Department of Education may also apply such measures of financial responsibility to the operating company and ownership entities of an eligible institution and, if such measures are not satisfied by the operating company or ownership entities, require the institution to post a letter of credit in favor of the Department of Education and possibly accept other conditions on its participation in Title IV programs. Any obligation to post a significant letter of credit could increase our costs of regulatory compliance. If Capella University is unable to secure a letter of credit, it would lose its eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. In addition to the obligation to post a letter of credit, an institution that is determined by the Department of Education not to be financially responsible can be transferred from the “advance” system of payment of Title IV funds to cash monitoring status or to the “reimbursement” system of payment. Limitations on, or termination of, Capella University’s participation in Title IV programs as a result of its failure to demonstrate financial responsibility would limit Capella University’s learners’ access to Title IV program funds, which could significantly reduce our enrollments and revenues and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A failure to demonstrate “administrative capability” may result in the loss of Capella University’s eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. Department of Education regulations specify extensive criteria an institution must satisfy to establish that it has the requisite “administrative capability” to participate in Title IV programs. These criteria require, among other things, that the institution: • comply with all applicable Title IV program regulations; • have capable and sufficient personnel to administer the federal student financial aid programs; 28 Table of Contents • have acceptable methods of defining and measuring the satisfactory academic progress of its learners; • not have cohort default debt rates above specified levels; • have various procedures in place for safeguarding federal funds; • not be, and not have any principal or affiliate who is, debarred or suspended from federal contracting or engaging in activity that is cause for debarment or suspension; • provide financial aid counseling to its learners; • refer to the Department of Education’s Office of Inspector General any credible information indicating that any applicant, learner, employee or agent of the institution has been engaged in any fraud or other illegal conduct involving Title IV programs; • submit in a timely manner all reports and financial statements required by the regulations; and • not otherwise appear to lack administrative capability. If an institution fails to satisfy any of these criteria or comply with any other Department of Education regulations, the Department of Education may: • require the repayment of Title IV funds; • transfer the institution from the “advance” system of payment of Title IV funds to cash monitoring status or to the “reimbursement” system of payment; • place the institution on provisional certification status; or • commence a proceeding to impose a fine or to limit, suspend or terminate the participation of the institution in Title IV programs. If we are found not to have satisfied the Department of Education’s “administrative capability” requirements we could be limited in our access to, or lose, Title IV program funding, which would significantly reduce our enrollment and revenues and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our failure to comply with regulations of various states could result in actions taken by those states that would have a material adverse effect on our enrollments, revenues and results of operations. Various states impose regulatory requirements on educational institutions operating within their boundaries. Several states have sought to assert jurisdiction over online educational institutions that have no physical location or other presence in the state but offer educational services to learners who reside in the state, or that advertise to or recruit prospective learners in the state. State regulatory requirements for online education are inconsistent between states and not well developed in many jurisdictions. As such, these requirements change frequently and, in some instances, are not clear or are left to the discretion of state employees or agents. Our changing business and the constantly changing regulatory environment require us to continually evaluate our state regulatory compliance activities. In the event we are found not to be in compliance, and a state seeks to restrict one or more of our business activities within its boundaries, we may not be able to recruit learners from that state and may have to cease providing service to learners in that state. Capella University is subject to extensive regulations by the states in which it is authorized or licensed to operate. In addition to Minnesota, Capella University is authorized or licensed in 17 states for all or some of its programs because we have determined that our activities in these states constitute a physical presence or otherwise require authorization or licensure by the respective state higher educational agencies. In some cases, the licensure or authorization to operate is only for specific programs. In the majority of these states, Capella University has determined that separate licensure or authorization for its certificate programs is not necessary, although approval of certificate programs is required and has been obtained from certain states. State laws typically establish standards for instruction, qualifications of faculty, administrative procedures, marketing, recruiting, financial operations and other operational matters. State laws and regulations may limit our ability to offer educational programs and award degrees. Some states may also prescribe financial regulations that are different from those of the Department of Education. Capella University is required to post surety bonds in several states. Recently, we have experienced heightened regulatory and licensure-related pressures impacting certain programs in a few states, including New York and North Carolina. If these pressures continue in the future, it could have a material impact on our enrollments, revenue, results of operations and cash flow. If we fail to comply with state licensing or authorization requirements, we may be subject to the loss of state licensure or authorization. Loss of authorization in one or more states could increase the likelihood of additional scrutiny and potential loss of operating and/or degree granting authority in other states in which we operate, which would further impact our business. 29 Table of Contents The inability of our graduates to obtain licensure in their chosen professional fields of study could reduce our enrollments and revenues, and potentially lead to litigation that could be costly to us. Certain of our graduates seek professional licensure in their chosen fields following graduation. Their success in obtaining licensure depends on several factors, including the individual merits of the learner, but also may depend on whether the institution and the program were approved by the state or by a professional association, whether the program from which the learner graduated meets all state requirements and whether the institution is accredited. Certain states have refused to license learners who graduate from programs that do not meet specific types of accreditation, residency or other state requirements. Specifically, certain states have refused to license learners from particular Capella University programs due to the fact that the program did not meet one or more of the state’s specific licensure requirements or were not approved by the state for purposes of professional licensure. We have had to respond to claims brought against us by former learners as a result of such refusal. Certain states have denied our graduates professional licensure because the Capella University program from which they graduated did not have a sufficient number of residency hours, did not include a state-approved clinical program, did not satisfy state coursework requirements, or was not accredited by a specific third party (such as the American Psychological Association). The state requirements for licensure are subject to change, and we may not immediately become aware of changes that may impact our learners in certain states. In the event that one or more states refuses to recognize our learners for professional licensure in the future based on factors relating to our institution or programs, the potential growth of our programs would be negatively impacted, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, we could be exposed to litigation that would force us to incur legal and other expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Risks Related to Our Business Ongoing and contemplated changes to our business may adversely affect our ability to grow or maintain profitability, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our ability to grow or maintain our profitability depends on a number of factors, including our ability to obtain and maintain regulatory approvals, our ability to attract and retain learners, our ability to maintain operating margins, our ability to recruit and retain high quality academic and administrative personnel and competitive factors. In addition, growth may place a significant strain on our resources and increase demands on our management information and reporting systems, financial management controls, and personnel. It cannot be assured that we will have adequate capacity to accommodate growth or that we will be able to manage further growth effectively. Failure to do so could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In order to increase our focus on improving the learner experience and attracting learners who are more likely to persist in our programs, we have recently implemented various measures that are likely to adversely affect our growth and profitability, at least in the near term, including the following: • Upgrading our learning and data platforms; • Adopting new tools to better support learners’ education financing decisions, such as our Responsible Borrowing Calculator, which is designed to help learners calculate the amount of learner borrowing necessary to achieve their educational objectives and to motivate them to not incur unnecessary student loan debt; • Transitioning our marketing approaches to more effectively identify learners who have the ability to succeed in our educational programs, including reduced emphasis on the utilization of third parties for lead generation; • Requiring all learners who enroll in Capella University without transfer credits to complete an academic readiness pre-assessment; and • Better aligning our enrollment, admissions and other employees to our learners’ success by redefining roles and responsibilities, resetting individual objectives and measures and implementing new compensation structures, including eliminating all enrollment factors in our admissions personnel compensation structure effective January 1, 2011. See Risks Related to the Highly Regulated Industry in Which We Operate — Pending rulemaking by the U.S. Department of Education could result in regulatory changes that materially and adversely affect our business, above. Each of these changes could adversely impact our business, especially in the near term. In combination, these changes may have a more pronounced adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, particularly in the near term. Our financial performance depends in part on our ability to keep pace with current market needs and to update and expand the content of existing programs and develop new programs and specializations on a timely basis and in a cost-effective manner. The updates and expansions of our existing programs and the development of new programs and specializations may not be accepted by existing or prospective learners or the employers of our graduates. If we cannot respond to changes in market requirements, our business may be adversely affected. Even if we are able to develop acceptable new programs, we may not be able to 30 Table of Contents introduce these new programs as quickly as learners require or as quickly as our competitors introduce competing programs. In addition, we may be unable to obtain specialized accreditations or licensures that may make certain programs desirable to learners. To offer a new academic program, we may be required to obtain appropriate federal, state and accrediting agency approvals, which may be conditioned or delayed in a manner that could significantly affect our growth plans. In addition, the new program approval procedures under the recent Department of Education rulemaking may considerably impact our process and timing for new program launches. If we are unable to respond adequately to changes in market requirements due to regulatory or financial constraints, rapid technological changes or other factors, our ability to attract and retain learners could be impaired, the rates at which our graduates obtain jobs involving their fields of study could suffer, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. Establishing new academic programs or modifying existing programs requires us to make investments in management and capital expenditures, incur marketing expenses and reallocate other resources. We may have limited experience with the courses in new areas and may need to modify our systems and strategy or enter into arrangements with other educational institutions to provide new programs effectively and profitably. If we are unable to increase the number of learners, or offer new programs in a cost-effective manner, or are otherwise unable to manage effectively the operations of newly established academic programs, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Certain of our programs have specialized accreditations; our business may be adversely impacted if we are unable to obtain such accreditations in the future, or if such accreditations impose requirements that impact other aspects of our business. Certain of our programs, especially at the master’s and doctorate level, have specialized accreditations which are desirable to our learners and may be important to learners obtaining licensure in their chosen field of study. If we are unable to obtain or renew such accreditations in the future, our programs will be less attractive to prospective learners and our current learners in such programs will be negatively impacted. In addition, these specialized accrediting bodies may impose requirements which adversely impact our business, such as imposing specific faculty to learner ratios or dictating the way in which we name and market related programs, such as we have recently experienced with CACREP and our mental health counseling programs. In any of these situations, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. Our financial performance depends on our ability to continue to develop awareness among, and attract and retain, working adult learners. Building awareness of Capella University and the programs we offer among working adult learners is critical to our ability to attract prospective learners. If we are unable to successfully market and advertise our educational programs, Capella University’s ability to attract and enroll prospective learners in such programs could be adversely affected, and consequently, our ability to increase revenue or maintain profitability could be impaired. It is also critical to our success that we convert these prospective learners to enrolled learners in a cost-effective manner and that these enrolled learners remain active in our programs. Some of the factors that could prevent us from successfully enrolling and retaining learners in our programs include: • the emergence of more successful competitors; • factors related to our marketing, including the costs of Internet advertising and broad-based branding campaigns; • performance problems with our online systems; • failure to maintain accreditation; • learner dissatisfaction with our services and programs, including with our customer service and responsiveness; • adverse publicity regarding us, our competitors or online or for-profit education generally; • price reductions by competitors that we are unwilling or unable to match; • a decline in the acceptance of online education or our degree offerings by learners or current and prospective employers; • increased regulation of online education, including in states in which we do not have a physical presence; • a decrease in the perceived or actual economic benefits that learners derive from our programs; and • litigation or regulatory investigations that may damage our reputation. If we are unable to continue to develop awareness of Capella University and the programs we offer, and to enroll and retain learners, our enrollments would suffer and our ability to increase revenues and maintain profitability would be significantly impaired. Strong competition in the postsecondary education market, especially in the online education market, could decrease our market share, increase our cost of acquiring learners and put downward pressure on our tuition rates. Postsecondary education, especially in the online market, is highly competitive. We compete with traditional public and private two-year and four-year colleges and other for-profit schools, as well as corporate universities and software companies providing 31 Table of Contents online education and training software. Each of these competitors may offer programs similar to ours at lower tuition levels as a result of government subsidies, government and foundation grants, tax-deductible contributions and other financial sources not available to for-profit institutions. In addition, some of our competitors, including both traditional colleges and universities and other for-profit schools, have substantially greater name recognition and financial and other resources than we have, which may enable them to compete more effectively for potential learners and decrease our market share. It is also possible that some of our competitors may develop platforms or other technologies that are superior to the platform and technology we use and we may not have the resources necessary to acquire or compete with these technologies. We also expect to face increased competition as a result of new entrants to the online education market, including established colleges and universities that had not previously offered online education programs. Moreover, one or more of our competitors may obtain specialized accreditations that improve their competitive positions against us. We may not be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors and may face competitive pressures that could adversely affect our business or results of operations. For example, as the market continues to mature, certain of our competitors have begun to reduce tuition rates. We may therefore be required to reduce our tuition or increase spending in response to competition to retain or attract learners or pursue new market opportunities. In addition, certain of our competitors have recently announced plans to target markets and learners that we have historically served, and these actions could increase costs and decrease our enrollments and revenue. We may also face increased competition in maintaining and developing new marketing relationships with corporations, particularly as corporations become more selective as to which online universities they will encourage their current employees to attend and from which online universities they will hire prospective employees. These competitive factors could cause our enrollments, revenues and profitability to significantly decrease. If we fail to maintain adequate systems and processes to detect and prevent fraudulent activity in learner enrollment and financial aid, our business could be adversely impacted. As we continue to grow, we are susceptible to an increased risk of fraudulent activity by outside parties with respect to learner enrollment and student financial aid programs. While we believe past incidents of fraudulent activity have been relatively isolated, we cannot be certain that our systems and processes will always be adequate in the face of increasingly sophisticated and ever-changing fraud schemes. The potential for outside parties to perpetrate fraud in connection with the award and disbursement of Title IV program funds, including as a result of identity theft, may be heightened due to our nature as an online education provider. We must maintain systems and processes to identify and prevent fraudulent applications for enrollment and financial aid. Efforts we take to identify and prevent fraudulent applications may also impose additional processes on potential legitimate learners, as well, which could adversely affect our enrollments, revenue, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Department of Education requires institutions that participate in Title IV programs to refer to the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Education any credible information indicating that any applicant, employee, third-party servicer, or agent of the institution that acts in a capacity that involves administration of the Title IV programs has been engaged in any fraud or other illegal conduct involving Title IV programs. If the systems and processes that we have established to detect and prevent fraud are inadequate, the Department of Education may find that we do not satisfy its “administrative capability” requirements. This could result in our being limited in our access to, or our losing, Title IV program funding, which would adversely affect our enrollment, revenues and results of operations. In addition, our ability to participate in Title IV programs is conditioned on our maintaining accreditation by an accrediting agency that is recognized by the Secretary of Education. Any significant failure to adequately detect fraudulent activity related to learner enrollment and financial aid could cause us to fail to meet our accrediting agencies’ standards. Furthermore, under the HEA, accrediting agencies that evaluate institutions that offer distance learning programs, as we do, must require such institutions to have processes through which the institution establishes that a learner who registers for a distance education program is the same learner who participates in and receives credit for the program. Failure to meet our accrediting agencies’ standards could result in the loss of accreditation at the discretion of our accrediting agencies, which could result in a loss of our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs and would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we are unable to successfully conclude our pending securities class action litigation, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. We and certain of our current and former directors and executive officers have been named as defendants in a federal securities class action litigation lawsuit. On November 5, 2010, a purported securities class action lawsuit, captioned Police Pension Fund of Peoria, Individually, and on Behalf of All Others Similarly Situated v. Capella Education Company, J. Kevin Gilligan and Lois M. Martin, was filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Minnesota. The complaint names us and certain senior executives as defendants, and alleges we and the named defendants made false or misleading public statements about our business and prospects during the time period from February 16, 2010 through August 13, 2010 in violation of federal securities laws, and that these statements artificially inflated the trading price of our common stock to the detriment of shareholders who purchased shares during that time. The plaintiff seeks compensatory damages for the purported class. Since that time, substantially similar complaints making similar allegations against the same defendants for the same purported class period have been filed with the federal court. We have not 32 Table of Contents yet responded to these complaints and anticipate that pursuant to the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the Court will appoint a lead plaintiff and lead counsel pursuant to the provisions of that law, and eventually a consolidated amended complaint will be filed. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this litigation and expect to incur significant defense costs and other expenses in connection with it. Such costs and expenses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and the market price of our common stock. We may be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs in excess of our insurance coverage related to these claims, any of which could have a further material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. An adverse outcome of this litigation could also materially and adversely affect our reputation, licenses, accreditation, and eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. We may not be able to return to our historic revenue and enrollment growth rates or maintain our operating margin growth rate, and we may not be able to manage future growth effectively. Our ability to return to our historic growth or maintain profitability depends on a number of factors, including our ability to obtain and maintain regulatory approvals, our ability to attract and retain learners, our ability to maintain operating margins, our ability to recruit and retain high quality academic and administrative personnel and competitive factors. In addition, growth may place a strain on our resources and increase demands on our management information and reporting systems, financial management controls, and personnel, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may not be able to successfully identify, pursue or integrate joint ventures, partnerships or acquisitions; joint ventures, partnerships or acquisitions may result in additional debt or dilution to our shareholders. As part of our growth strategy, we may consider joint ventures, partnerships or acquisition opportunities in the U.S. and worldwide. Joint ventures, partnerships and acquisitions are inherently risky. We cannot be certain that any future joint ventures, partnerships or acquisitions will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may not be able to identify suitable opportunities, partner or acquire institutions on favorable terms, or successfully integrate or profitably operate acquired institutions. Future transactions may involve use of our cash resources, issuance of equity or debt securities, incurrence of other forms of debt or a significant increase in our financial leverage, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, especially if the cash flows associated with any joint venture, partnership or acquisition are not sufficient to cover the additional debt service. If we issue equity securities as consideration in a joint venture, partnership or an acquisition, current shareholders’ percentage ownership and earnings per share may be diluted. In addition, our joint venture, partnership or acquisition of an educational institution could be considered a change in ownership and control of the acquired institution under applicable regulatory standards. For such a joint venture, partnership or an acquisition in the U.S., we may need approval from the U.S. Department of Education and applicable state agencies and accrediting agencies and possibly other regulatory bodies. Any such joint ventures, partnerships or acquisitions outside the U.S. would subject us to risks inherent in international operations. Our inability to obtain such approvals with respect to a completed joint venture, partnership or an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. System disruptions and vulnerability from security risks to our online computer networks could impact our business and financial performance and damage the reputation of Capella University, limiting our ability to attract and retain learners. The performance and reliability of our technology infrastructure is critical to our reputation and ability to attract and retain learners. Any system error or failure, or a sudden and significant increase in bandwidth usage, could result in the unavailability of our course room platform, damaging our business and financial performance and the reputation of Capella University. Our technology infrastructure could be vulnerable to interruption or malfunction due to events beyond our control, including natural disasters, terrorist activities and telecommunications failures. We have only limited redundancies in our core computer network infrastructure, which is concentrated in a single geographic area. If we experience a catastrophic failure or unavailability for any reason of our principal data center, we may need to replicate the function of this data center at our existing remote data facility or elsewhere, which may require expensive and time-consuming equipping and restoring activities. The disruption from such an event could significantly impact our operations and have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may experience interruptions or failures in our computer systems as a result of ongoing maintenance of and enhancements to our enterprise resource planning system, course room platform, and/or server system. Any interruption to our technology infrastructure could have a material adverse effect on our ability to attract and retain learners and could require us to incur additional expenses to correct or mitigate the interruption. Our computer networks may also be vulnerable to cyber attacks such as unauthorized access, computer hackers, computer viruses and other security problems and system disruptions. We engage with multiple security assessment providers on a periodic basis to review and assess our security. We utilize this information to audit ourselves to ensure that we are continually monitoring the 33 Table of Contents security of our technology infrastructure, but it may still be vulnerable to threats. A user who circumvents security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in operations. As a result, we may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of these security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The personal information that we collect may be vulnerable to breach, theft or loss that could adversely affect our reputation and operations. Possession and use of personal information in our operations subjects us to risks and costs that could harm our business. Capella University collects, uses and retains large amounts of personal information regarding our learners and their families, including social security numbers, tax return information, personal and family financial data and credit card numbers. We also collect and maintain personal information of our employees in the ordinary course of our business. Some of this personal information is held and managed by certain of our vendors. Although we use security and business controls to limit access and use of personal information, a third party may be able to circumvent those security and business controls, which could result in a breach of learner or employee privacy. In addition, errors in the storage, use or transmission of personal information could result in a breach of learner or employee privacy. Possession and use of personal information in our operations also subjects us to legislative and regulatory burdens that could require notification of data breaches and restrict our use of personal information. We cannot guarantee that a breach, loss or theft of personal information will not occur. A breach, theft or loss of personal information regarding our learners and their families or our employees that is held by us or our vendors could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and results of operations and result in liability under state and federal privacy statutes and legal actions by state attorneys, general and private litigants, and any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may experience increased costs, reduced margins and an increase in bad debt expense if the proportion of our learners who are enrolled in our bachelor’s degree programs continues to increase. Our bachelor’s degree programs are currently growing at a faster rate than our doctoral or master’s degree programs. This bachelor’s degree growth has caused the proportion of our learners enrolled in bachelor’s degree programs to increase, while the proportion enrolled in our doctoral programs has decreased. This mix shift may continue in the future, and we may experience certain negative consequences, such as decreased revenue per learner, higher cost per new enrollment, lower retention rates and/or higher learner services costs, higher default rates, an increase in our learner loan cohort default rate, an increase in bad debt expense, an increase in the percentage of our revenue derived from Title IV funding under the 90/10 Rules, more limited ability to implement tuition price increases and other effects that may adversely affect our operating results. Similarly we could experience the same impact from other changes in our business model, such as a potential change to permit a deferred payment schedule for certain of our learners, or a change in the timing of financial aid disbursements. We rely on exclusive proprietary rights and intellectual property that may not be adequately protected under current laws, and we encounter disputes from time to time relating to our use of intellectual property of third parties. Our success depends in part on our ability to protect our proprietary rights. We rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secrets, domain names and agreements to protect our proprietary rights. We rely on service mark and trademark protection in the United States and select foreign jurisdictions to protect our rights to the marks “CAPELLA,” “CAPELLA EDUCATION COMPANY,” and “CAPELLA UNIVERSITY,” as well as distinctive logos and other marks associated with our services. We rely on agreements under which we obtain rights to use course content developed by faculty members and other third-party content experts. We cannot guarantee that these measures will be adequate, that we have secured, or will be able to secure, appropriate protections for all of our proprietary rights in the United States or select foreign jurisdictions, or that third parties will not infringe upon or violate our proprietary rights. Despite our efforts to protect these rights, unauthorized third parties may attempt to duplicate or copy the proprietary aspects of our curricula, online resource material and other content. Our management’s attention may be diverted by these attempts and we may need to use funds in litigation to protect our proprietary rights against any infringement or violation, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. We may encounter disputes from time to time over rights and obligations concerning intellectual property, and we may not prevail in these disputes. In certain instances, we may not have obtained sufficient rights in the content of a course. Third parties may raise a claim against us alleging an infringement or violation of the intellectual property of that third party. Some third party intellectual property rights may be extremely broad, and it may not be possible for us to conduct our operations in such a way as to avoid those intellectual property rights. Any such intellectual property claim could subject us to costly litigation and impose a significant strain on our financial resources and management personnel regardless of whether such claim has merit. Our general liability and cyber liability insurance may not cover potential claims of this type adequately or at all, and we may be required to alter the content of our classes or pay monetary damages or license fees to third parties, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 34 Table of Contents Legislation pending before Congress may make it easier and more desirable for employees to form unions, which may increase our costs. The Employee Free Choice Act is currently pending before Congress. If passed into law, this Act would make it easier for employees to organize unions and force companies to submit to binding arbitration for first contracts with newly formed unions. In addition, penalties for firing union backers would be significantly increased. Any efforts by our employees or faculty to form a union, whether or not successful, could increase our costs, which could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our learner population and revenues could decrease if the government tuition assistance offered to U.S. Armed Forces personnel is reduced or eliminated, if the tuition discounts which we offer to U.S. Armed Forces personnel are reduced or eliminated, or if our informal arrangements with any military bases deteriorate. Active duty members of the U.S. Armed Forces are eligible to receive tuition assistance from the government, which they may use to pursue postsecondary degrees. We offer tuition discounts generally ranging from 10% to 15% to all members of the U.S. Armed Forces and immediate family members of active duty U.S. Armed Forces personnel. During 2009, we provided approximately $5.0 million of such discounts. We also have non-exclusive agreements with various educational institutions of the U.S. Armed Forces pursuant to which we have agreed to accept credits toward a Capella University degree from certain military educational programs. These agreements generally may be terminated by either party upon 30 to 45 days’ notice. Additionally, we have informal arrangements with several military bases pursuant to which the bases make information about Capella University available to interested service members. Each of these informal arrangements is not binding on either party and either party could end the arrangement at any time. If our informal arrangement with any military base deteriorates or ends, our efforts to recruit learners from that base will be impaired. In the event that governmental tuition assistance programs to active duty members of the U.S. Armed Forces are reduced or eliminated, if our tuition discount program which we offer U.S. Armed Forces personnel and their immediate family members is reduced or eliminated, or if our informal arrangements with any military base deteriorates, this could materially and adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. If we do not maintain existing, and develop additional, relationships with employers, our future growth may be impaired. We currently have relationships with large employers to provide their employees with the opportunity to obtain degrees through us while continuing their employment. These relationships are an important part of our strategy as they provide us with a steady source of potential working adult learners for particular programs and also serve to increase our reputation among high-profile employers. If we are unable to develop new relationships, or if our existing relationships deteriorate or end, our efforts to seek these sources of potential working adult learners will be impaired, and this could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business may be adversely affected by a further economic slowdown or recession in the U.S. or abroad or by an economic recovery in the U.S. The U.S. and much of the world economy are in a recession. In addition, homeowners in the U.S. have experienced an unprecedented reduction in wealth due to the decline in residential real estate values across much of the country. These events, particularly unemployment and residential real estate financing challenges, may reduce the number of courses taken simultaneously by each of our learners or otherwise reduce the demand for our programs and colloquia among learners, including among learners who receive financial aid and determine they are unwilling to incur additional debt during current economic conditions, regardless of financial aid availability. Further, these events may reduce the willingness of employers to sponsor educational opportunities for their employees. To the extent the economic downturn has increased demand for our programs, a subsequent economic recovery may eliminate this effect and reduce such demand as fewer potential learners seek to advance their education. Any of these events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, these events could adversely affect the ability or willingness of our former learners to repay student loans, which could increase our student loan cohort default rate and require increased time, attention and resources to manage these defaults. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 