Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to the Extensive Regulation of Our Business If we fail to comply with the extensive regulatory requirements for our business, we could face significant restrictions on our operations and monetary penalties, including loss of access to federal loans and grants for our learners on which we are substantially dependent. In 2007, we derived approximately 74% of our revenues (calculated on a cash basis) from federal student financial aid programs, referred to in this report as Title IV programs, administered by the U.S. Department of Education. A significant percentage of our learners rely on the availability of Title IV program funds to cover their cost of attendance at Capella University and related educational expenses. Title IV programs include educational loans for our learners from both private lenders and the federal government at below-market interest rates that are guaranteed by the federal government in the event of default. Title IV programs also include several income-based grant programs for learners with the greatest economic need as determined in accordance with Department of Education regulations. To participate in Title IV programs, a school must receive and maintain authorization by the appropriate state education agencies, be accredited by an accrediting agency recognized by the Secretary of the Department of Education and be certified as an eligible institution by the Department of Education. As a result, we are subject to extensive regulation by state education agencies, our accrediting agency and the Department of Education. These regulatory requirements cover the vast majority of our operations, including our educational programs, facilities, instructional and administrative staff, administrative procedures, marketing, recruiting, financial operations and financial condition. These regulatory requirements can also affect our ability to acquire or open additional schools, to add new or expand existing educational programs and to change our corporate structure and ownership. The state education agencies, our accrediting agency and the Department of Education periodically revise their requirements and modify their interpretations of existing requirements. If we fail to comply with any of these regulatory requirements, our regulatory agencies could impose monetary penalties, place limitations on our operations, terminate our ability to grant degrees and certificates, revoke our accreditation and/or terminate our eligibility to receive Title IV program funds, each of which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, should we fail to properly comply with the regulatory requirements set forth in the following risk factors, and as a result be charged, sanctioned, subjected to loss of a federal, state or agency approval or authorization, or otherwise be penalized in some way, our reputation could be damaged and such damage could have a negative impact on our stock price. We cannot predict with certainty how all of these regulatory requirements will be applied or whether we will be able to comply with all of the requirements in the future. We have described some of the most significant regulatory risks that apply to us in the following paragraphs. We must seek recertification to participate in Title IV programs no less than every six years, and may, in certain circumstances, be subject to review by the Department of Education prior to seeking recertification. An institution that is certified to participate in Title IV programs must seek recertification from the Department of Education at least every six years, or when it undergoes a change of control. The recertification process includes the electronic submission of a new “Application for Approval to Participate in the Federal Student Financial Aid Programs,” which includes information about the school’s administration, ownership, educational programs and compliance with Department of Education regulations. The application is accompanied by financial statements and documentation of continued accreditation and state authorization. Our current certification expires on December 31, 2008. Our application for recertification will be due for submission no later than September 30, 2008. The Department of Education may also review our continued certification to participate in Title IV programs in the event we expand our activities in certain ways, such as opening an additional location or, in certain cases, if we modify the academic credentials that we offer. In addition, the Department of Education may withdraw our certification without advance notice if it determines that we are not fulfilling material requirements for continued participation in Title IV programs. If the Department of Education 25 Table of Contents did not renew or withdrew our certification to participate in Title IV programs, our learners would no longer be able to receive Title IV program funds, which would have a material adverse effect on our enrollments, revenues and results of operations. Congress may change the law or reduce funding for Title IV programs, which could reduce our learner population, revenues and profit margin. Congress reauthorizes the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended (the Higher Education Act) and other laws governing Title IV programs approximately every five to eight years. The last reauthorization of the Higher Education Act was completed in 1998, which extended authorization through September 30, 2004. Because reauthorization had not yet been completed in a timely manner, Congress has extended the current provisions of the Higher Education Act through March 31, 2008. Additionally, Congress reviews and determines appropriations for Title IV programs on an annual basis through the budget and appropriations process. There is no assurance that reauthorization of the Higher Education Act will happen, or that Congress will not enact changes that decrease Title IV program funds available to students, including students who attend our institution. A failure by Congress to reauthorize or otherwise extend the provisions of the Higher Education Act, or any action by Congress that significantly reduces funding for Title IV programs or the ability of our school or learners to participate in these programs, would require us to arrange for non-federal sources of financial aid and could materially decrease our enrollment. Such a decrease in enrollment would have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Congressional action may also require us to modify our practices in ways that could result in increased administrative costs and decreased profit margin. In September 2007, President Bush signed into law legislation which, among other things, decreases private lender and guaranty agency yields for participation in the Federal Family Education Loan (‘‘FFEL’’) program, decreases student interest rates on Stafford loans and limits repayment obligations for students who receive loans pursuant to Title IV programs. In addition, Congress is considering legislation to address alternative, non-Title IV program loans as well as lender and educational institution relationships, which could negatively impact our students’ ability to access student loans. If the U.S. Congress significantly reduced the amount of available Title IV program funding, we would attempt to arrange for alternative sources of financial aid for our students. We cannot assure that one or more private organizations would be willing to provide loans to students attending Capella University, or that the interest rate and other terms of such loans would be as favorable as for Title IV program loans. In addition, private organizations could require us to guarantee all or part of this assistance and we might incur other additional costs. If we provided more direct financial assistance to our students, we would incur additional costs and assume increased credit risks. The Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Education has an ongoing compliance audit of Capella University which may result in repayment of Title IV funds, interest, fines, penalties, remedial action and damage to our reputation in the industry. The Office of Inspector General (“OIG”) of the U.S. Department of Education is responsible for, among other things, promoting the effectiveness and integrity of the Department of Education’s programs and operations. With respect to educational institutions that participate in the Title IV funding programs, the OIG conducts its work primarily through compliance audits and investigations. An OIG compliance audit typically focuses upon whether an institution administers federal funds in accordance with applicable rules and regulations, whereas an investigation typically indicates a concern regarding potential fraud or abuse involving federal funds. In our case, the OIG has conducted a compliance audit (and not an investigation) of Capella University. The period under audit is the Title IV award years of 2002-2003, 2003-2004 and 2004-2005 (with each award year commencing on July 1st). The audit commenced on April 10, 2006 and we subsequently provided the OIG with periodic information, responded to follow up inquiries and facilitated site visits and access to our records. The OIG completed its field 26 Table of Contents work in January 2007 and we received a draft audit report on August 23, 2007. The draft audit report is preliminary, and is subject to further review and revision by the OIG. Capella University provided written comments on the draft audit report to the OIG on September 25, 2007. At some time in the future, the OIG’s final report will be issued to the Acting Chief Operating Officer (COO) for Federal Student Aid (FSA), which is responsible for primary oversight of the Title IV funding programs. The FSA will subsequently issue final findings and requirements for Capella University. The FSA may take certain actions, including that we refund certain federal student aid funds, modify our Title IV administration procedures and pay fines or penalties. The audit primarily focused on whether we properly calculated the amount of Title IV funds required to be returned for learners who withdrew from Capella University without providing an official notification of withdrawal and without engaging in any academic activity prior to such withdrawal. Based on its review, the OIG audit staff identified several such learners for whom it believes proper returns of Title IV funds were not made. Based on the draft audit report, the most significant potential financial exposure from the audit relates to repayments to the Department of Education that could be required if the OIG concludes that the Company did not properly calculate the amount of Title IV funds required to be returned for learners that withdrew from Capella University without providing an official notification of such withdrawal and without engaging in academic activity prior to such withdrawal. If it is determined that Capella University improperly withheld any portion of these funds, Capella University would be required to return the improperly withheld funds. For the three year audit period, and for the 2005-2006 aid year, we estimate that the total amount of Title IV funds not returned for learners who withdrew without providing official notification was less than $1.0 million, including interest, but not including fines and penalties. As part of our internal process of continuously evaluating and attempting to improve our policies and procedures, prior to the initiation of the OIG audit we had already begun modifying our policies and procedures for determining whether a learner is engaged in any academic activity. We developed these policies and procedures during spring 2006 and fully implemented them for the 2006-2007 financial aid year. The audit also focused on our policies and procedures for disbursing Title IV funding to learners, and to a lesser extent on our communication to our learners of our satisfactory academic progress policy, our exit counseling for federal student loan recipients, and our review of learners’ financial aid histories prior to disbursing Title IV funding. See “Regulatory Environment—Regulation of Federal Student Financial Aid Programs—Compliance Reviews” for information about the OIG audit staff’s inquiries. Because of the ongoing nature of the OIG audit process, we can neither know nor predict with certainty the ultimate extent of the final audit findings, or the potential liability or remedial actions that might result. Such findings and related remedial action may have an adverse impact on our reputation in the industry, our cash flows and results of operations and our ability to recruit learners, and may have an adverse effect on our stock price. The possible effects of a finding of a regulatory violation (including refunds, fines, penalties and limitations, conditions, suspension or termination of our participation in Title IV programs) are described more fully in “Regulatory Environment—Regulation of Federal Student Financial Aid Programs—Potential Effect of Regulatory Violations.” If we fail to maintain our institutional accreditation, we would lose our ability to participate in Title IV programs. Capella University is accredited by The Higher Learning Commission of the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools, one of six regional accrediting agencies recognized by the Secretary of the Department of Education as a reliable indicator of educational quality. Accreditation by a recognized accrediting agency is required for an institution to become and remain eligible to participate in Title IV programs. We are currently seeking to have our accreditation affirmed with The Higher Learning Commission as part of a regularly scheduled accreditation affirmation process. The Higher Learning Commission may impose restrictions on our accreditation or may not renew our accreditation. To remain accredited we must continuously meet certain 27 Table of Contents criteria and standards relating to, among other things, performance, governance, institutional integrity, educational quality, faculty, administrative capability, resources and financial stability. Failure to meet any of these criteria or standards could result in the loss of accreditation at the discretion of The Higher Learning Commission. The Department of Education has recently begun a rulemaking proceeding to consider changes in its regulations governing accrediting agencies. Changes in such regulations could impact our ability to comply with accreditation standards and could increase our cost of maintaining accreditation. The loss of accreditation would, among other things, render our learners and us ineligible to participate in Title IV programs, reduce the marketability of a Capella degree and have a material adverse effect on our enrollments, revenues and results of operations. If Capella University does not maintain its authorization in Minnesota, it may not operate or participate in Title IV programs. A school that grants degrees, diplomas or certificates must be authorized by the relevant education agency of the state in which it is located. Capella University is deemed to be located in the State of Minnesota and is authorized by the Minnesota Office of Higher Education. State authorization is also required for our learners to be eligible to receive funding under Title IV programs. Such authorization may be lost or withdrawn if Capella University fails to submit renewal applications and other required submissions to the state in a timely manner, or if Capella University fails to comply with material requirements under Minnesota statutes and rules for continued authorization. Loss of state authorization by Capella University from the Minnesota Office of Higher Education would terminate our ability to provide educational services as well as our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. Investigations by state attorneys general, Congress and governmental agencies regarding relationships between loan providers and education institutions and their financial aid officers may have a material and adverse impact on our reputation and results of operations. During 2007 we received and responded to inquiries from the State of New York Office of the Attorney General (the “NY Attorney General”) and the Minnesota Attorney General regarding their investigations of post-secondary education institutions, financial aid officers and student loan providers regarding possible deceptive practices in the marketing of both private student loans and loans provided by such lenders under the Federal Family Education Loan (“FFEL”) program. We conducted our own internal review of the matters raised by the NY and MN Attorneys General. In May 2007, Capella University, our wholly owned subsidiary, adopted a new Code of Conduct established by the NY Attorney General’s office. In addition, Capella University also entered into a settlement agreement with the NY and MN Attorneys General in connection with the on-going reviews of financial aid practices at various colleges and universities. In the settlement agreement, Capella University stipulated that it would adopt the Code of Conduct. The actions of the NY and MN Attorneys General came at a time of increased scrutiny of student lending practices. Other state attorneys general have also commenced inquiries of student loan practices. On May 9, 2007, the U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation that would, among other things, require that educational institutions report to the Department of Education the nature and basis of all preferred lending arrangements, disclose to students the existence of such relationships and the availability of loans from other lenders, require institutions that utilize preferred lender lists have a minimum number of lenders on such lists, require that institutions adhere to a code of conduct with respect to educational loans, prohibit gifts, compensation and incentives from lenders to colleges and universities and their employees, prohibit employees, officers or agents of institutions from participating on lender advisory committees, prohibit lenders from providing staff for an institution’s call centers and financial aid offices, and ban opportunity pools of funds to be used for private educational loans to students in exchange concessions or promises made to a lender. The U.S. Senate considered, but did not pass, similar legislation, and the legislation passed by the U.S. House of Representatives would not become law until also passed by the U.S. Senate and signed into law by the President of the United States. Accordingly, the terms of this legislation may be modified in significant respects in 28 Table of Contents connection with that process from that which was passed by the U.S. House of Representatives. However, we would expect that any final legislation on these matters may require us to change the manner in which we interact with student loan lenders to reduce the potential for conflict of interest. In connection with such pending legislation and Congressional oversight of the student loan industry, we received a letter of inquiry from U.S. Senator Edward Kennedy, Chairman of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, related to the Committee’s oversight of the federally-guaranteed student loan program. We responded to the inquiry from Senator Kennedy’s office, and at this time believe that no additional information will be requested from us. In addition, in November 2007, the U.S. Department of Education enacted final regulations that largely restrict gifts and incentives that lenders can provide to colleges, closely regulate the manner in which colleges select preferred lenders, and require greater disclosure to students about any preferred lender relationships. The Secretary of the Department of Education had previously formed an internal Task Force on Student Loans that examined and recommended regulations pertaining to lender issues. Those recommendations were incorporated in the final regulations released by the Department of Education in November 2007. We believe we are in compliance with these regulations. Because of the evolving nature of these various inquiries and developments we can neither know nor predict with certainty their outcome, or the potential liability or remedial actions that might result from these or potentially other inquiries. Similarly, we cannot predict at this time the outcome of legislative or regulatory initiatives. Any of these actions may have a material and adverse impact on our reputation in the industry, our relationships with the agencies that regulate our business, our participation in Title IV programs, our cash flows and results of operations and our ability to recruit learners and, accordingly, may have a material and adverse effect on our stock price. Our regulatory environment and our reputation may be negatively influenced by the actions of other post-secondary educational institutions. We are part of a large and highly regulated post-secondary education market that includes public and private two-year and four-year colleges, and other for-profit institutions. In recent years, regulatory investigations and civil litigation have been commenced against several companies that own for-profit educational institutions, as well as against public and private non-profit institutions. These investigations and lawsuits have alleged, among other things, deceptive trade practices and non-compliance with Department of Education regulations or state consumer protection laws. These allegations have attracted adverse media coverage and have been the subject of legislative hearings and regulatory actions at both the federal and state levels. Although the media, regulatory and legislative focus has been primarily upon the allegations made against specific companies and institutions, broader allegations against the overall post-secondary education sector may negatively impact public perceptions of other educational institutions, including Capella University. Adverse media coverage regarding other companies in the for-profit school sector or public and private non-profit institutions, or regarding us directly, could damage our reputation, could result in lower enrollments, revenues and operating profit, and could have a negative impact on our stock price. Such allegations could also result in increased scrutiny and regulation by the Department of Education, Congress, accrediting bodies, state legislatures or other governmental authorities on all educational institutions, including us. We are subject to sanctions if we fail to correctly calculate and timely return Title IV program funds for learners who withdraw before completing their educational program. A school participating in Title IV programs must correctly calculate the amount of unearned Title IV program funds that have been disbursed to students who withdraw from their educational programs before completion and must return those unearned funds in a timely manner, generally within 45 days of the date the school determines that the student has withdrawn. Under Department of Education regulations, late returns of 29 Table of Contents Title IV program funds for 5% or more of students sampled on the institution’s annual compliance audit constitutes material non-compliance. If unearned funds are not properly calculated and timely returned, we may have to post a letter of credit in favor of the Department of Education or otherwise be sanctioned by the Department of Education, which could increase our cost of regulatory compliance and adversely affect our results of operations. As described in “Regulatory Environment—Regulation of Federal Student Financial Aid Programs—Compliance Reviews,” we are currently subject to an OIG audit which we understand includes a review of the amount of Title IV program funds that we returned for learners who withdrew from their educational programs before completion and without providing official notification of such withdrawal. A failure to demonstrate “financial responsibility” may result in the loss of eligibility by Capella University to participate in Title IV programs or require the posting of a letter of credit in order to maintain eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. To participate in Title IV programs, an eligible institution must satisfy specific measures of financial responsibility prescribed by the Department of Education, or post a letter of credit in favor of the Department of Education and possibly accept other conditions on its participation in Title IV programs. The Department of Education may also apply such measures of financial responsibility to the operating company and ownership entities of an eligible institution and, if such measures are not satisfied by the operating company or ownership entities, require the institution to post a letter of credit in favor of the Department of Education and possibly accept other conditions on its participation in Title IV programs. Any obligation to post a letter of credit could increase our costs of regulatory compliance. If Capella University is unable to secure a letter of credit, it would lose its eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. In addition to the obligation to post a letter of credit, an institution that is determined by the Department of Education not to be financially responsible can be transferred from the “advance” system of payment of Title IV funds to cash monitoring status or to the “reimbursement” system of payment. Limitations on, or termination of, Capella University’s participation in Title IV programs as a result of its failure to demonstrate financial responsibility would limit Capella University’s learners’ access to Title IV program funds, which could significantly reduce our enrollments and revenues and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. A failure to demonstrate “administrative capability” may result in the loss of Capella University’s eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. Department of Education regulations specify extensive criteria an institution must satisfy to establish that it has the requisite “administrative capability” to participate in Title IV programs. These criteria require, among other things, that the institution: • comply with all applicable Title IV program regulations; • have capable and sufficient personnel to administer the federal student financial aid programs; • have acceptable methods of defining and measuring the satisfactory academic progress of its students; • not have cohort default debt rates above specified levels; • have various procedures in place for safeguarding federal funds; • not be, and not have any principal or affiliate who is, debarred or suspended from federal contracting or engaging in activity that is cause for debarment or suspension; • provide financial aid counseling to its students; • refer to the Department of Education’s Office of Inspector General any credible information indicating that any applicant, student, employee or agent of the institution has been engaged in any fraud or other illegal conduct involving Title IV programs; • submit in a timely manner all reports and financial statements required by the regulations; and • not otherwise appear to lack administrative capability. 30 Table of Contents If an institution fails to satisfy any of these criteria or comply with any other Department of Education regulations, the Department of Education may: • require the repayment of Title IV funds; • transfer the institution from the “advance” system of payment of Title IV funds to cash monitoring status or to the “reimbursement” system of payment; • place the institution on provisional certification status; or • commence a proceeding to impose a fine or to limit, suspend or terminate the participation of the institution in Title IV programs. If we are found not to have satisfied the Department of Education’s “administrative capability” requirements we could be limited in our access to, or lose, Title IV program funding, which would significantly reduce our enrollment and revenues and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to sanctions if we pay impermissible commissions, bonuses or other incentive payments to individuals involved in certain recruiting, admissions or financial aid activities. A school participating in Title IV programs may not provide any commission, bonus or other incentive payment to any person involved in student recruiting or admission activities or in making decisions regarding the awarding of Title IV program funds based on success in enrolling students or securing financial aid. If we violate this law, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by the Department of Education. Any such fines or sanctions could harm our reputation, impose significant costs on us, and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our failure to comply with regulations of various states could result in actions taken by those states that would have a material adverse effect on our enrollments, revenues and results of operations. Various states impose regulatory requirements on educational institutions operating within their boundaries. Several states have sought to assert jurisdiction over online educational institutions that have no physical location or other presence in the state but offer educational services to students who reside in the state, or that advertise to or recruit prospective students in the state. State regulatory requirements for online education are inconsistent between states and not well developed in many jurisdictions. As such, these requirements change frequently and, in some instances, are not clear or are left to the discretion of state employees or agents. Our changing business and the constantly changing regulatory environment require us to continually evaluate our state regulatory compliance activities. In the event we are found not to be in compliance, and a state seeks to restrict one or more of our business activities within its boundaries, we may not be able to recruit learners from that state and may have to cease providing service to learners in that state. 31 Table of Contents Capella University is subject to extensive regulations by the states in which it is authorized or licensed. In addition to Minnesota, Capella University is authorized or licensed in the following 15 states for all or some of its programs because we have determined that our activities in these states constitute a presence or otherwise require authorization or licensure by the respective state educational agencies: State Capella University Activity Constituting Presence Requiring Licensure or Authorization Alabama Agreement with a former provider of library services to Capella students. Arizona Capella conducts activities in the state that constitutes physical presence. Arkansas Agreement with Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. constitutes physical presence. Colorado No determination of presence; authorization granted in order to have marketing and recruiting agents in the state. Florida Recruiting activities in the state. Georgia Direct marketing and recruiting activities in the state. Illinois State agency broadly interprets licensure requirements to cover all institutions serving residents of the state. Kentucky Direct marketing and recruiting activities in the state. Nevada Direct marketing and recruiting activities in the state. Ohio Direct marketing and recruiting activities in the state for select programs. South Carolina Direct marketing and recruiting activities in the state Virginia Direct marketing and recruiting activities in the state; agreements with community colleges. Washington Direct marketing and recruiting activities in the state West Virginia Direct marketing and recruiting activities in the state. Wisconsin State agency broadly interprets licensure requirements to cover all institutions serving residents of the state. As of the last day of classes for the quarter ended December 31, 2007, the number of learners living in each of these states (other than Minnesota, Florida and Georgia) was less than 5% of our total enrollment. As of the last day of classes for the quarter ended December 31, 2007, approximately 5% of our learners lived in Minnesota, approximately 6% lived in Florida and approximately 8% lived in Georgia. In some cases, the licensure or authorization is only for specific programs. In the majority of these states, Capella University has determined that separate licensure or authorization for its certificate programs is not necessary, although approval of certificate programs is required and has been obtained from the States of Arizona, Florida and Ohio. State laws typically establish standards for instruction, qualifications of faculty, administrative procedures, marketing, recruiting, financial operations and other operational matters. State laws and regulations may limit our ability to offer educational programs and award degrees. Some states may also prescribe financial regulations that are different from those of the Department of Education. Capella University is required to post surety bonds in several states. If we fail to comply with state licensing or authorization requirements, we may be subject to the loss of state licensure or authorization. Although we believe that the only state licensure or authorization that is necessary for Capella University to participate in Title IV programs is our authorization from the Minnesota Office of Higher Education, loss of licensure or authorization in other states could prohibit us from recruiting or enrolling students in those states, reduce significantly our enrollments and revenues and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The inability of our graduates to obtain licensure in their chosen professional fields of study could reduce our enrollments and revenues, and potentially lead to litigation that could be costly to us. Certain of our graduates seek professional licensure in their chosen fields following graduation. Their success in obtaining licensure depends on several factors, including the individual merits of the learner, but also may depend on whether the institution and the program were approved by the state or by a professional 32 Table of Contents association, whether the program from which the learner graduated meets all state requirements and whether the institution is accredited. Certain states have refused to license students who graduate from programs that do not meet specific types of accreditation, residency or other state requirements. Specifically, certain states have refused to license learners from particular Capella University programs due to the fact that the program did not meet one or more of the state’s specific licensure requirements or were not approved by the state for purposes of licensure. We have had to respond to claims brought against us by former learners as a result of such refusal. Certain states have denied our graduates professional licensure because the Capella University program from which they graduated did not have a sufficient number of residency hours, did not include a state approved clinical program, did not satisfy state coursework requirements or was not accredited by a specific third party (such as the American Psychological Association). The state requirements for licensure are subject to change, and we may not immediately become aware of changes that may impact our learners in certain states. In the event that one or more states refuses to recognize our learners for professional licensure in the future based on factors relating to our institution or programs, the potential growth of our programs would be negatively impacted, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, we could be exposed to litigation that would force us to incur legal and other expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If regulators do not approve or delay their approval of transactions involving a change of control of our company, our ability to participate in Title IV programs may be impaired. If we or Capella University experience a change of control under the standards of applicable state education agencies, The Higher Learning Commission or the Department of Education, we must seek the approval of each relevant regulatory agency. Transactions or events that constitute a change of control include significant acquisitions or dispositions of an institution’s common stock and significant changes in the composition of an institution’s board of directors. Some of these transactions or events may be beyond our control. The potential adverse effects of a change of control with respect to participation in Title IV programs could influence future decisions by us and our shareholders regarding the sale, purchase, transfer, issuance or redemption of our common stock. Government and regulatory agencies and third parties may conduct compliance reviews, bring claims or initiate litigation against us. Because we operate in a highly regulated industry, we are subject to compliance reviews and claims of non-compliance and lawsuits by government agencies, regulatory agencies and third parties, including claims brought by third parties on behalf of the federal government. If the results of these reviews or proceedings are unfavorable to us, or if we are unable to defend successfully against lawsuits or claims, we may be required to pay money damages or be subject to fines, limitations, loss of Title IV funding, injunctions or other penalties. Even if we adequately address issues raised by an agency review or successfully defend a lawsuit or claim, we may have to divert significant financial and management resources from our ongoing business operations to address issues raised by those reviews or to defend against those lawsuits or claims. Claims and lawsuits brought against us may damage our reputation, even if such claims and lawsuits are without merit. We may lose eligibility to participate in Title IV programs if our student loan default rates are too high, which would significantly reduce our learner population. An educational institution may lose its eligibility to participate in some or all Title IV programs if, for three consecutive federal fiscal years, 25% or more of its students who were required to begin repaying their student loans in the relevant fiscal year default on their payment by the end of the next federal fiscal year. In addition, an institution may lose its eligibility to participate in some or all Title IV programs if its default rate exceeds 40% in the most recent federal fiscal year for which default rates have been calculated by the Department of Education. Capella University’s default rates on the Federal Family Education Loan, or FFEL, program loans for the 2005, 2004 and 2003 federal fiscal years, the three most recent years for which information is available, were 2.3%, 33 Table of Contents 2.2% and 1.8%, respectively. If Capella University loses its eligibility to participate in Title IV programs because of high student loan default rates, our learners would no longer be eligible to receive Title IV program funds under various government-sponsored financial aid programs, which would significantly reduce our enrollments and revenues and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may lose eligibility to participate in Title IV programs if the percentage of our revenue derived from those programs is too high, which would significantly reduce our learner population. A for-profit institution loses its eligibility to participate in Title IV programs if, on a cash accounting basis, it derives more than 90% of its revenue from those programs in any fiscal year. In 2007, under the regulatory formula prescribed by the Department of Education, we derived approximately 74% of our revenues (calculated on a cash basis) from Title IV programs. If we lose our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs because more than 90% of our revenues are derived from Title IV program funds in any year, our learners would no longer be eligible to receive Title IV program funds under various government-sponsored financial aid programs, which would significantly reduce our enrollments and revenues and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Business Our success depends in part on our ability to update and expand the content of existing programs and develop new programs and specializations on a timely basis and in a cost-effective manner. The updates and expansions of our existing programs and the development of new programs and specializations may not be accepted by existing or prospective learners or employers. If we cannot respond to changes in market requirements, our business may be adversely affected. Even if we are able to develop acceptable new programs, we may not be able to introduce these new programs as quickly as learners require or as quickly as our competitors introduce competing programs. In addition, we may be unable to obtain specialized accreditations or licensures that may make certain programs desirable to learners. To offer a new academic program, we may be required to obtain appropriate federal, state and accrediting agency approvals, which may be conditioned or delayed in a manner that could significantly affect our growth plans. In addition, to be eligible for federal student financial aid programs, a new academic program may need to be certified by the Department of Education. If we are unable to respond adequately to changes in market requirements due to financial constraints or other factors, our ability to attract and retain learners could be impaired and our financial results could suffer. Establishing new academic programs or modifying existing programs requires us to make investments in management and capital expenditures, incur marketing expenses and reallocate other resources. We may have limited experience with the courses in new areas and may need to modify our systems and strategy or enter into arrangements with other educational institutions to provide new programs effectively and profitably. If we are unable to increase the number of learners, or offer new programs in a cost-effective manner, or are otherwise unable to manage effectively the operations of newly established academic programs, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our financial performance depends on our ability to continue to develop awareness among, and attract and retain, working adult learners. Building awareness of Capella University and the programs we offer among working adult learners is critical to our ability to attract prospective learners. It is also critical to our success that we convert these prospective learners to enrolled learners in a cost-effective manner and that these enrolled learners remain active in our programs. Some of the factors that could prevent us from successfully enrolling and retaining learners in our programs include: • the emergence of more successful competitors; • factors related to our marketing, including the costs of Internet advertising and broad-based branding campaigns; 34 Table of Contents • performance problems with our online systems; • failure to maintain accreditation; • learner dissatisfaction with our services and programs; • adverse publicity regarding us, our competitors or online or for-profit education generally; • price reductions by competitors that we are unwilling or unable to match; • a decline in the acceptance of online education; • a decrease in the perceived or actual economic benefits that learners derive from our programs; and • litigation or regulatory investigations that may damage our reputation. If we are unable to continue to develop awareness of Capella University and the programs we offer, and to enroll and retain learners, our enrollments would suffer and our ability to increase revenues and maintain profitability would be significantly impaired. Strong competition in the post-secondary education market, especially in the online education market, could decrease our market share, increase our cost of acquiring learners and put downward pressure on our tuition rates. Post-secondary education is highly competitive. We compete with traditional public and private two-year and four-year colleges as well as other for-profit schools. Traditional colleges and universities may offer programs similar to ours at lower tuition levels as a result of government subsidies, government and foundation grants, tax-deductible contributions and other financial sources not available to for-profit institutions. In addition, some of our competitors, including both traditional colleges and universities and other for-profit schools, have substantially greater name recognition and financial and other resources than we have, which may enable them to compete more effectively for potential learners and decrease our market share. We also expect to face increased competition as a result of new entrants to the online education market, including established colleges and universities that had not previously offered online education programs. Moreover, one or more of our competitors may obtain specialized accreditations that improve their competitive positions against us. We may not be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors and may face competitive pressures that could adversely affect our business or results of operations. For example, as the market continues to mature, certain of our competitors have begun to reduce tuition rates. We may therefore be required to reduce our tuition or increase spending in response to competition in order to retain or attract learners or pursue new market opportunities. We may also face increased competition in maintaining and developing new marketing relationships with corporations, particularly as corporations become more selective as to which online universities they will encourage their current employees to attend and from which online universities they will hire prospective employees. These competitive factors could cause our enrollments, revenues and profitability to significantly decrease. System disruptions and vulnerability from security risks to our online computer networks could impact our ability to generate revenue and damage the reputation of Capella University, limiting our ability to attract and retain learners. We are currently migrating to a new enterprise resource planning system, and unplanned costs and decreases in productivity could adversely impact our financial results. The performance and reliability of our technology infrastructure is critical to our reputation and ability to attract and retain learners. Any system error or failure, or a sudden and significant increase in bandwidth usage, could result in the unavailability of our courseroom platform, damaging our ability to generate revenue. Our technology infrastructure could be vulnerable to interruption or malfunction due to events beyond our control, including natural disasters, terrorist activities and telecommunications failures. We currently use the Blackboard Learning System courseroom platform, and we recently upgraded this courseroom platform to the most recent version. 35 Table of Contents We are currently replacing our individual software applications with a comprehensive enterprise resource planning system. The implementation of this enterprise resource planning system is projected to be completed in the summer of 2008. The enterprise resource planning system is a large-scale project to which our employees and contractors continue to devote substantial time. Our in-house expertise, including the expertise of our contractors, related to large-scale enterprise resource planning system implementations is limited, and an implementation of this scope by its nature gives rise to risk of system interruption or failure. In addition, implementation of the enterprise resource planning system may result in unplanned and unbudgeted costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Further, during and after implementation, we may experience difficulties in accessing information and decreases in productivity in excess of planned levels as our employees continue their transition to using the new system, and such decreases could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We may experience interruptions or failures in our computer systems as a result of our ongoing implementation of our enterprise resource planning system, or our recently upgraded courseroom platform and server system. Any interruption to our technology infrastructure could have a material adverse effect on our ability to attract and retain learners and could require us to incur additional expenses to correct or mitigate the interruption. Our computer networks may also be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer hackers, computer viruses and other security problems. A user who circumvents security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in operations. As a result, we may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of these security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. We engage with multiple security assessment providers on a periodic basis to review and assess our security. We utilize this information to audit ourselves to ensure that we are continually monitoring the security of our technology infrastructure. However, we cannot assure you that these security assessments and audits will protect our computer networks against the threat of security breaches. We operate in a highly competitive market with rapid technological change, and we may not have the resources needed to compete successfully. Online education is a highly competitive market that is characterized by rapid changes in our learners’ technological requirements and expectations and evolving market standards. Competitors vary in size and organization from traditional colleges and universities to for-profit schools, corporate universities and software companies providing online education and training software. Each of these competitors may develop platforms or other technologies that are superior to the platform and technology we use. We may not have the resources necessary to acquire or compete with technologies being developed by our competitors, which may render our online delivery format less competitive or obsolete. At present we derive a significant portion of our revenues and, after the full allocation of corporate overhead expenses, most of our operating income from our doctoral programs. Our origins are as an online university primarily for doctoral learners. Despite the expansion of our program offerings to include both master’s and bachelor’s degrees, our doctoral learner community remains an integral part of the success of our business model. At December 31, 2007, learners seeking doctoral, master’s and bachelor’s degrees represented approximately 38%, 45% and 16%, respectively, of our enrollment. Due to the relative size, maturity and economics of our doctoral programs, for the three months ended December 31, 2007, doctoral learners accounted for approximately $118.1 million, or 52.2%, of our revenues, and, after the full allocation of corporate overhead expenses, most of our operating income. Prior to the full allocation of corporate overhead expenses, our doctoral programs accounted for most of our operating income in these periods. If we were to experience any learner, regulatory, reputational, instructional or other event that adversely affected our doctoral offerings, our results of operations could be significantly and adversely affected. 36 Table of Contents We may experience declines in our revenue and enrollment growth rates, and our growth may place a strain on our resources. We have experienced significant growth since we established our university in 1993. However, while we have continued to achieve growth in revenues and enrollment year-over-year, these growth rates have declined in some recent periods and may continue to decline in the future. Specifically, we expect additional competitors to enter the online educational market and increased competition for online education offerings, including from colleges and universities that provide blended educational programs involving both classroom and online components. The growth that we have experienced in the past, as well as any future growth that we experience, may place a significant strain on our resources and increase demands on our management information and reporting systems and financial management controls. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively while maintaining appropriate internal controls, we may experience operating inefficiencies that could increase our costs and adversely affect our profitability and results of operations. We rely on exclusive proprietary rights and intellectual property that may not be adequately protected under current laws, and we encounter disputes from time to time relating to our use of intellectual property of third parties. Our success depends in part on our ability to protect our proprietary rights. We rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secrets, domain names and agreements to protect our proprietary rights. We rely on service mark and trademark protection in the United States and select foreign jurisdictions to protect our rights to the marks “CAPELLA,” “CAPELLA EDUCATION COMPANY,” and “CAPELLA UNIVERSITY,” as well as distinctive logos and other marks associated with our services. We rely on agreements under which we obtain rights to use course content developed by faculty members and other third-party content experts. We cannot assure you that these measures will be adequate, that we have secured, or will be able to secure, appropriate protections for all of our proprietary rights in the United States or select foreign jurisdictions, or that third parties will not infringe upon or violate our proprietary rights. Despite our efforts to protect these rights, unauthorized third parties may attempt to duplicate or copy the proprietary aspects of our curricula, online resource material and other content. Our management’s attention may be diverted by these attempts and we may need to use funds in litigation to protect our proprietary rights against any infringement or violation. We may encounter disputes from time to time over rights and obligations concerning intellectual property, and we may not prevail in these disputes. In certain instances, we may not have obtained sufficient rights in the content of a course. Third parties may raise a claim against us alleging an infringement or violation of the intellectual property of that third party. Some third party intellectual property rights may be extremely broad, and it may not be possible for us to conduct our operations in such a way as to avoid those intellectual property rights. Any such intellectual property claim could subject us to costly litigation and impose a significant strain on our financial resources and management personnel regardless of whether such claim has merit. Our general liability and cyber liability insurance may not cover potential claims of this type adequately or at all, and we may be required to alter the content of our classes or pay monetary damages, which may be significant. We may incur liability for the unauthorized duplication or distribution of class materials posted online for class discussions. In some instances, our faculty members or our learners may post various articles or other third-party content on class discussion boards. We may incur liability for the unauthorized duplication or distribution of this material posted online for class discussions. Third parties may raise claims against us for the unauthorized duplication of this material. Any such claims could subject us to costly litigation and impose a significant strain on our financial resources and management personnel regardless of whether the claims have merit. Our general liability insurance may not cover potential claims of this type adequately or at all, and we may be required to alter the content of our courses or pay monetary damages. 37 Table of Contents A reclassification of our adjunct faculty may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Adjunct faculty comprised approximately 85% of our faculty population at December 31, 2007. We classify our adjunct faculty as independent contractors, as opposed to employees. Because we classify our adjunct faculty as independent contractors, with respect to these individuals we do not withhold federal or state income or other employment-related taxes, make federal or state unemployment tax or Federal Insurance Contributions Act, or FICA, payments, provide workers’ compensation insurance or provide certain benefits available to our employees. The determination of whether adjunct faculty members are properly classified as independent contractors or as employees is based upon the facts and circumstances of our relationship with our adjunct faculty members. Federal or state authorities or adjunct faculty members may challenge our classification as incorrect and assert that our adjunct faculty members must be classified as employees. In the event that we were to reclassify our adjunct faculty as employees, we would be required to withhold the appropriate taxes, make unemployment tax and FICA payments and pay for workers’ compensation insurance and additional payroll processing costs. If we had reclassified our adjunct faculty members as employees for 2007, we estimate our additional tax, workers’ compensation insurance and payroll processing payments would have been approximately $1.8 million for that year. The amount of additional tax and insurance payments would increase in the future as the total amount we pay to adjunct faculty increases. In addition to these known costs, we could be subject to retroactive taxes and penalties, which may be significant, by federal and state authorities, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In the event that we were to reclassify our adjunct faculty as employees, we could also be required to permit these individuals to participate in certain of our employee benefit plans, perhaps retroactively. We may not be able to retain our key personnel or hire and retain the personnel we need to sustain and grow our business. Our success to date has depended, and will continue to depend, largely on the skills, efforts and motivation of our executive officers, who generally have significant experience with our company and within the education industry. Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Stephen Shank, is 64 years old and has been our Chief Executive Officer since he founded Capella in 1991. To facilitate an orderly development and transition of leadership, our board of directors has been engaged in ongoing succession planning. Mr. Shank has advised the board that at such point as clear Chief Executive Officer succession capability has been established, and no earlier than this year, he would relinquish his duties as Chief Executive Officer. As one means to facilitate Mr. Shank’s eventual transition, the board established the position of Chief Operating Officer. Our success also depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified faculty, school directors, administrators and corporate management. In March 2007, we began a national search for a new president of Capella University, a position currently held on an interim basis by Dr. Valerie Perkins. Dr. Michael Offerman, our former president, has transitioned to a new executive position at Capella. Due to the nature of our business, we face significant competition in attracting and retaining personnel who possess the skill sets we seek. In addition, key personnel may leave us and subsequently compete against us. We do not carry life insurance on our key personnel for our benefit. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, or our failure to attract and retain other qualified and experienced personnel on acceptable terms, could impair our ability to successfully sustain and grow our business, which could in turn materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Our learner population and revenues could decrease if the government tuition assistance offered to U.S. Armed Forces personnel is reduced or eliminated, if the tuition discounts which we offer to U.S. Armed Forces personnel are reduced or eliminated, or if our informal arrangements with any military bases deteriorate. Active duty members of the U.S. Armed Forces are eligible to receive tuition assistance from the government, which they may use to pursue post-secondary degrees. We offer tuition discounts generally ranging from 10% to 15% to all members of the U.S. Armed Forces and immediate family members of active duty 38 Table of Contents U.S. Armed Forces personnel. During 2007, we provided approximately $4.6 million of such discounts. We also have non-exclusive agreements with various educational institutions of the U.S. Armed Forces pursuant to which we have agreed to accept credits toward a Capella University degree from certain military educational programs. These agreements generally may be terminated by either party upon 30 to 45 days’ notice. Additionally, we have informal arrangements with several military bases pursuant to which the bases make information about Capella University available to interested service members. Each of these informal arrangements is not binding on either party and either party could end the arrangement at any time. If our informal arrangement with any military base deteriorates or ends, our efforts to recruit learners from that base will be impaired. In the event that governmental tuition assistance programs to active duty members of the U.S. Armed Forces are reduced or eliminated, if our tuition discount program which we offer U.S. Armed Forces personnel and their immediate family members is reduced or eliminated, or if our informal arrangements with any military base deteriorates, this could materially and adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Seasonal and other fluctuations in our results of operations could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In reviewing our results of operations, you should not focus on quarter-to-quarter comparisons. Our results in any quarter may not indicate the results we may achieve in any subsequent quarter or for the full year. Our revenues and operating results normally fluctuate as a result of seasonal variations in our business, principally due to changes in enrollment. Learner population varies as a result of new enrollments, graduations and learner attrition. While our number of enrolled learners has grown in each sequential quarter over the past three years, the number of enrolled learners has been proportionally greatest in the fourth quarter of each respective year. A significant portion of our general and administrative expenses do not vary proportionately with fluctuations in revenues. We expect quarterly fluctuations in operating results to continue as a result of seasonal enrollment patterns. Such patterns may change, however, as a result of new program introductions, the timing of colloquia and events and increased enrollments of learners. These fluctuations may result in volatility or have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Our current success and future growth depend on the continued acceptance of the Internet and the corresponding growth in users seeking educational services on the Internet. Our business relies on the Internet for its success. A number of factors could inhibit the continued acceptance of the Internet and adversely affect our profitability, including: • inadequate Internet infrastructure; • security and privacy concerns; and • the unavailability of cost-effective Internet service and other technological factors. If Internet use decreases, or if the number of Internet users seeking educational services on the Internet does not increase, our business may not grow as planned. Government regulations relating to the Internet could increase our cost of doing business, affect our ability to grow or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business. The increasing popularity and use of the Internet and other online services has led and may lead to the adoption of new laws and regulatory practices in the United States or foreign countries and to new interpretations of existing laws and regulations. These new laws and interpretations may relate to issues such as online privacy, copyrights, trademarks and service marks, sales taxes, fair business practices and the requirement that online education institutions qualify to do business as foreign corporations or be licensed in one or more jurisdictions where they have no physical location or other presence. New laws, regulations or interpretations related to doing business over the Internet could increase our costs and materially and adversely affect our enrollments, revenues and results of operations. 39 Table of Contents An increase in interest rates or other decrease in loan availability could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain learners. Approximately 74% of our revenues (calculated on a cash basis) for the year ended December 31, 2007, were derived from Title IV programs, which involve subsidized student borrowing. Additionally, some of our learners finance a portion of their education through private, unsubsidized borrowing. In addition, in the event Congress decreases the amount available for federal student aid, our learners may have to pay higher, unsubsidized interest rates. Any future increase in interest rates or other decrease in loan availability (whether as a result of government action or credit market conditions) will result in a corresponding increase in educational costs to our existing and prospective learners, which could result in a significant reduction in our learner population and revenues. Our investment portfolio is sensitive to interest rate changes and a significant decrease in interest rates could adversely impact the performance of our investment portfolio. As of December 31, 2007, we held over $143 million in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, and a decrease in interest rates of more than 10% could result in a significant reduction in the income we receive from these investments. In January 2008, the Federal Reserve Bank decreased the Federal Funds Rate by 125 basis points and consequently, resulted in a reduction in our interest rates of more than 10%. These lower interest rates and the possibility of future Federal Funds Rate reductions may significantly reduce our interest income for 2008. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 