Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to the Extensive Regulation of Our Business If we fail to comply with the extensive regulatory requirements for our business, we could face significant restrictions on our operations and monetary penalties, including loss of access to federal loans and grants for our learners on which we are substantially dependent. As a provider of higher education, we are subject to extensive U.S. regulation on both the federal and state levels. In particular, the Higher Education Act, as amended and reauthorized from time to time, and related regulations impose significant regulatory scrutiny on Capella University, and all other higher education institutions that participate in the various federal student financial aid programs under Title IV of the Higher Education Act (Title IV programs). The Higher Education Act, as reauthorized, mandates specific regulatory responsibilities for each of the following components of the higher education regulatory triad: (1) the federal government through the U.S. Department of Education; (2) independent accrediting agencies recognized by the Department of Education; and (3) state higher education regulatory bodies. In 2013, we derived approximately 78% of our revenues (calculated on a cash basis) from Title IV programs, administered by the U.S. Department of Education. A significant percentage of our learners rely on the availability of Title IV program funds to cover their cost of attendance at Capella University and related educational expenses. The applicable regulatory requirements cover virtually all phases of our operations, including educational program offerings, facilities, instructional and administrative staff, administrative procedures, marketing and recruiting, financial operations, processing refund payments to the U.S. Department of Education for withdrawn learners, commencement of new educational programs, and changes in our corporate structure and ownership. The regulations, standards and policies of the various regulatory agencies frequently change and are subject to interpretative challenges, particularly where they are crafted for traditional schools rather than our on-line academic delivery model. Changes in, or new interpretations of, applicable laws, regulations, or standards could have a material adverse effect on our accreditation, authorization to operate in various states, permissible activities, receipt of funds under Title IV programs, or costs of doing business. We cannot predict how all of the requirements applied by these agencies will be interpreted or whether we will be able to comply with these requirements in the future. If we are found to be in noncompliance with any applicable regulations, standards or policies, any one of the relevant regulatory agencies may be able to do one or more of the following: •impose monetary fines or penalties; •limit or terminate our operations or ability to grant degrees and diplomas; •restrict or revoke our accreditation, licensure or other approvals to operate; •limit, suspend or terminate our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs or state financial aid programs; •require repayment of funds received under Title IV programs or state financial aid programs; •require us to post a letter of credit with the U.S. Department of Education; •subject us to heightened cash monitoring by the U.S. Department of Education; •transfer us from the U.S. Department of Education's advance system of receiving Title IV program funds to its reimbursement system, under which a school must disburse its own funds to learners and document the learners' eligibility for Title IV program funds before receiving such funds from the U.S. Department of Education; •subject us to other civil or criminal penalties; and/or •subject us to other forms of censure. In addition, in some circumstances of noncompliance or alleged noncompliance, we may be subject to qui tam lawsuits under the Federal False Claims Act or various, similar, state false claim statutes. In these actions, private plaintiffs seek to enforce remedies under the Federal False Claims Act on behalf of the U.S. and, if successful, are entitled to recover their costs and to receive a portion of any amounts recovered by the U.S. in the lawsuit. These lawsuits can be prosecuted by a private plaintiff in respect of some action taken by us, even if the Department of Education does not agree with plaintiff's theory of liability. 26Any of the penalties, injunctions, restrictions or other forms of censure listed above could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we lose our Title IV eligibility, we would experience a dramatic and adverse decline in revenue and we would be unable to continue our business as it currently is conducted. Rulemaking by the U.S. Department of Education could materially and adversely affect our business. The U.S. Department of Education has additionally promulgated or engaged in rulemaking on substantive matters in the past three years that impact our business, including the following:Effective during 2013:•A negotiated rulemaking committee was convened by the Department of Education in September 2013 on the topic of gainful employment. No new rules that could have a substantial impact on our business were promulgated by the U.S. Department of Education in 2013.Effective during 2012:•Regulations requiring certain disclosures to students related to gainful employment.Effective during 2011:•Regulations removing certain “safe harbors” that previously defined the limits of the prohibition on the payment of incentive compensation to persons involved in enrollment and financial aid functions, and regulations prohibiting revenue sharing arrangements between education services providers and institutions that participate in Title IV programs;•Regulations requiring institutions that participate in Title IV programs to be authorized to operate by the appropriate postsecondary regulatory authority in each state where the institution has a physical presence;•Regulations defining for the first time the standards to measure “preparation for gainful employment,” instituting consequences of failing the standards, and requiring reporting of certain data to the Department of Education (such regulations were vacated by the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia in 2012); and•Regulations expanding the definition of misrepresentation and the sanctions that the Department of Education may impose for engaging in a substantial misrepresentation (such regulations were partially remanded and vacated in 2012). These regulations have increased our operating costs and in some cases required us to change the manner in which we operate our business. New or amended regulations in the future could further negatively impact our business. Incentive CompensationA school participating in Title IV programs may not pay any commission, bonus or other incentive payments to any person involved in student recruitment or admissions or awarding of Title IV program funds, if such payments are based in any part, directly or indirectly, on success in enrolling students or obtaining student financial aid. Failure to comply could result in monetary penalties and/or sanctions imposed by the Department of Education, which could result in lower enrollments, revenue, and net operating income. The law and regulations governing this requirement do not establish clear criteria for compliance in all circumstances. Department of Education rulemaking in 2011 eliminated the twelve safe harbors and, in lieu of the safe harbors, some of the relevant concepts relating to the incentive compensation limitations are defined. These changes increase the uncertainty about what constitutes incentive compensation and which employees are covered by the regulation. This makes the development of effective and compliant performance metrics more difficult to establish. State Authorization In the U.S., institutions that participate in Title IV programs must be authorized to operate by the appropriate postsecondary regulatory authority in each state where the institution conducts activities that require authorization, or be exempt from such regulatory authorization, usually based on recognized accreditation. As of December 31, 2013, Capella University is authorized to operate in 20 states, including Minnesota. In certain states, Capella University is qualified to operate without specific state regulatory approval due to available state exemptions that permit such operation if certain programmatic or other accreditation criteria are met. Due to changes in regulations and our business, we periodically seek approval to operate and/or offer additional programs in additional states. If we experience a delay in obtaining or cannot obtain these approvals or evidence such approvals are not necessary, our business could be adversely impacted. If we are unable to operate in a manner that would 27permit us to enroll learners or preserve Title IV eligibility for our learners in impacted states, our business could be materially and adversely impacted.Gainful Employment Under the Higher Education Act, as reauthorized, proprietary schools are eligible to participate in Title IV programs only in respect of educational programs that lead to “gainful employment in a recognized occupation.” Historically, this concept has not been defined in detailed regulations. On October 29, 2010 and June 13, 2011, the Department of Education published final regulations on gainful employment. The final gainful employment rules defined, for the first time, the standards to measure “preparation for gainful employment in a recognized occupation.” The rules established three annual standards related to student loan borrowing by which gainful employment was to be measured for each academic program of study: (i) percentage of the program’s former students who entered repayment during the cohort period and are current in their student loan repayment, (ii) ratio of discretionary income to total student loan debt for the program’s completers and (iii) ratio of actual earnings to total student loan debt for the program’s completers. As adopted, the rules provided that an academic program that passed any one standard for a given year would be considered to be providing training leading to gainful employment. If an academic program failed all three metrics for a given year, the institution would be required to disclose the failure to existing and prospective students including the amount by which the program did not meet the minimum standards and describe the program’s plan for improvement. After two failures within three years, the institution would be required to inform students in the failing program that their debts may be unaffordable, that the program may lose eligibility, and what transfer options exist. After three failures within four years, the academic program would lose eligibility to participate in Title IV programs for at least three years.In addition, the rules as adopted required institutions to notify the Department of Education at least 90 days before the commencement of new educational programs leading to gainful employment in recognized occupations, and in some cases, would require that the Department of Education approve the program.These rules were vacated by the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia on June 30, 2012. The court also vacated the rules requiring reporting to the Department of Education of information about students who complete a program leading to gainful employment in a recognized occupation, including the amount of debt incurred under private loans or institutional finance plans, matriculation information, and end of year enrollment information. On July 30, 2012, the Department of Education filed a motion asking the court to reinstate the requirement that institutions report information about student loan-repayment rates and debt-to-income ratios.The Court did not vacate the portion of the rules requiring proprietary postsecondary institutions to provide prospective students with each eligible program’s recognized occupations, cost, completion rate, job placement rate, and median loan debt of program completers beginning July 1, 2011. The disclosure requirements and the requirements for reporting information relating to our programs to the Department of Education and to our students have increased our administrative burdens. These reporting requirements could impact student enrollment, persistence and retention in ways that we cannot now predict. For example, if our reported program information compares unfavorably with other reporting educational institutions, it could adversely impact demand for our programs.On June 12, 2013, the Department of Education announced its intent to form a negotiated rulemaking committee specifically on the topic of gainful employment. Prior to the committee’s initial convening on September 9, 2013, the Department of Education released draft regulations on gainful employment. This initial proposal drafted by the Department of Education provided a two-part “debt to earnings” metric (DTE), including both annual DTE and discretionary DTE. DTE metrics would be measured on the basis of only Title IV recipients within the educational program. The threshold for DTE failure remains as it was in the previous regulation; however, programs above those thresholds are either “passing,” or still eligible but subject to certain “zone” requirements. During the course of subsequent negotiations, the Department of Education made clear that certain proposals were outside the scope of either their authority or the gainful employment issue. Restricted subjects include: loan repayment rate thresholds, records for non-Title IV students, discharge of student debt, letters of credit, cost of attendance, and marketing/executive compensation restrictions. New proposals initiated during this rulemaking include: programmatic cohort default rate (CDR), and up-front program approvals incorporating job placement and specialized accreditation requirements. The earliest effective date for regulations resulting from this round of negotiated rulemaking would be July 1, 2015, however the substance of final regulations dealing with gainful employment cannot be predicted at this time. If the rules regarding gainful employment metrics are repromulgated by the Department of Education in a manner that withstands challenge, the continuing eligibility of our educational programs for Title IV funding would be at risk due to factors beyond our control, such as changes in the actual or deemed income level of our graduates, changes in student borrowing levels, increases in interest 28rates, changes in the federal poverty income level relevant for calculating discretionary income, changes in the percentage of our former students who are current in repayment of their student loans, and other factors. The exposure to these external factors could reduce our ability to confidently offer or continue certain types of programs for which there is market demand, and therefore would impact our ability to maintain or grow our business.Action by the U.S. Congress to revise the laws governing the federal student financial aid programs or reduce funding for those programs, including changes applicable only to proprietary educational institutions, could reduce our learner population and increase our costs of operation. The U.S. Congress must periodically reauthorize the Higher Education Act and annually determine the funding level for each Title IV program. In 2008, the Higher Education Act was reauthorized through September 30, 2013 by the Higher Education Opportunity Act. Changes to the Higher Education Act, including changes in eligibility and funding for Title IV programs, are likely to occur in subsequent reauthorizations, but we cannot predict the scope or substance of any such changes. In April 2011, Congress permanently eliminated year-round Pell Grant awards beginning with the 2011-2012 award year as part of the fiscal year 2011 Continuing Resolution spending bill. This change did not reduce the maximum annual grant level. However, because the Pell Grant program is one of the largest non-defense discretionary spending programs in the federal budget, it is a target for reduction as Congress addresses budget deficits. A reduction in the maximum annual Pell Grant amount or changes in eligibility could result in increased student borrowing, which would make it more difficult for us to comply with other important regulatory requirements, such as the cohort default rate regulations, which are discussed below, and could negatively impact enrollment.In addition to Congress’ focus on the federal government’s funding challenges, in recent years, there has been increased focus by Congress on the role that proprietary educational institutions play in higher education. In June 2010, the Education and Labor Committee of the U.S. House of Representatives held a hearing to examine the manner in which accrediting agencies review higher education institutions’ policies on credit hours and program length. This followed a report from the Office of the Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Education in December 2009 criticizing the accreditation of a proprietary school by a regional accrediting body and requesting that the Department of Education review the appropriateness of its recognition of the accrediting body. Also in June 2010, the U.S. Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (“HELP Committee”) held the first in a series of hearings to examine the proprietary education sector. At a subsequent hearing in August 2010, the Government Accountability Office (“GAO”) presented a report of its review of various aspects of the proprietary sector, including recruitment practices and the degree to which proprietary institutions’ revenue is composed of Title IV funding. Following this hearing, Sen. Tom Harkin, the Chairman of the HELP Committee, requested a broad range of detailed information from 30 proprietary institutions, including Capella University. In September 2010, the HELP Committee held a third hearing and Sen. Harkin’s staff released its initial report entitled “The Return on the Federal Investment in For-Profit Education: Debt Without a Diploma.” After additional hearings and roundtable discussions and review of the information provided by proprietary institutions, Senator Harkin’s staff released its final report in July 2013 entitled, “For Profit Higher Education: The Failure to Safeguard the Federal Investment and Ensure Student Success.” The final report was not adopted by the full committee and the minority committee staff criticized it for relying on discredited sources and refusing to examine similar concerns in the non-profit education sector. Nonetheless, the report may be influential as Congress begins the process of reauthorizing the Higher Education Act, which currently expires in September 2014. The report advocates significant changes in the requirements governing participation by for profit educational institutions in Title IV student financial aid programs, including the following:•Tie access to federal aid to meeting minimum student outcome thresholds;•Prohibit institutions from funding marketing, advertising and recruiting activities with federal financial aid dollars;•Improve cohort default rate tracking by expanding the default reporting rate period beyond 3 years;•Require that proprietary colleges receive at least 15 percent of revenues from sources other than federal funds; and•Use criteria beyond accreditation and state authorization for determining institutions' access to federal financial aid.In addition, other Congressional hearings and roundtable discussions may be held regarding various aspects of the education industry that may affect our business. We cannot predict what legislation, if any, may emanate from these Congressional committee hearings or what impact any such legislation might have on the proprietary education sector and our business in particular.The confluence of continued scrutiny in Congress of the proprietary education sector and federal budget deficits increases the likelihood of legislation that will adversely impact our business. Any action by Congress that significantly reduces Title IV 29program funding, whether through across-the-board funding reductions, or otherwise, or materially impacts the eligibility of our institutions or students to participate in Title IV programs would have a material adverse effect on our enrollment, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Congressional action could also require us to modify our practices, for instance by reducing our marketing expenses or otherwise modifying our marketing practices, in ways that increase our administrative costs and reduce our enrollment and operating income.We would lose our eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs if the percentage of our revenues derived from those programs is too high, in which event we could not conduct our business in its present form. A requirement of the Higher Education Act, as reauthorized by the Higher Education Opportunity Act, commonly referred to as the “90/10 Rule”, applies only to proprietary institutions of higher education, which includes Capella University. Under this rule, a proprietary institution will be ineligible to participate in Title IV programs if for any two consecutive fiscal years it derives more than 90% of its cash basis revenue, as defined in the rule, from Title IV programs. An institution that derives more than 90% of its revenue from Title IV programs for any single fiscal year will be automatically placed on provisional certification for two fiscal years and will be subject to possible additional sanctions determined to be appropriate under the circumstances by the U.S. Department of Education in the exercise of its broad discretion. While the Department of Education has broad discretion to impose additional sanctions on such an institution, there is only limited precedent available to predict what those sanctions might be, particularly in the current regulatory environment. The Department of Education could specify any additional conditions as a part of the provisional certification and the institution’s continued participation in Title IV programs. These conditions may include, among other things, restrictions on the total amount of Title IV program funds that may be distributed to learners attending the institution; restrictions on programmatic and geographic expansion; requirements to obtain and post letters of credit; additional reporting requirements to include additional interim financial reporting; or any other conditions imposed by the Department of Education. Should an institution be subject to a provisional certification at the time that its current program participation agreement expired, the effect on recertification of the institution or continued eligibility in Title IV programs pending recertification is uncertain. An institution that derives more than 90% of its revenue from Title IV programs for two consecutive fiscal years will be ineligible to participate in Title IV programs for at least two fiscal years. Capella University is required to calculate this percentage at the end of each fiscal year; as of December 31, 2013, our percentage was approximately 78%. If an institution is determined to be ineligible to participate in Title IV programs due to the 90/10 Rule, any disbursements of Title IV program funds while ineligible must be repaid to the Department of Education.The 90/10 Rule percentage for Capella University could increase in the future depending on the degree to which our various initiatives are effective, the impact of future changes in our enrollment mix, and regulatory and other factors outside our control, including any reduction in government tuition assistance for military personnel, including veterans, or changes in the treatment of such funding for purposes of the 90/10 Rule calculation. Currently, tuition assistance for military personnel, including veterans, is not treated as Title IV revenue under the 90/10 Rule and, therefore, based on the prescribed order of application per the regulations, a majority of such funding is included in the “10%” portion of the rule calculation. A reduction in the availability of this type of funding, or a change (through either legislation or executive order) that requires that it be treated in the same manner as Title IV funding under the 90/10 Rule, would increase our 90/10 Rule percentage.Any necessary further efforts to reduce the 90/10 Rule percentage for Capella University, especially if the percentage exceeds 90% for a fiscal year, may involve taking measures which reduce our revenue, increase our operating expenses, or both, in each case perhaps significantly. If the 90/10 Rule is not changed to provide relief for institutions like Capella University, we may be required to make structural changes to our business in order to remain in compliance. These changes may materially alter the manner in which we conduct our business and materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.An increase in our student loan default rates could result in the loss of eligibility to participate in Title IV programs, which would materially and adversely affect our business.To remain eligible to participate in Title IV programs, educational institutions must maintain student loan cohort default rates below specified levels. The U.S. Department of Education reviews an educational institution’s cohort default rate annually as a measure of administrative capability. Each cohort is the group of students who first enter into student loan repayment during a federal fiscal year (ending September 30). The currently applicable cohort default rate for each cohort is the percentage of the students in the cohort who default on their student loans prior to the end of the following federal fiscal year, which represents a two-year measuring period. The cohort default rates are published by the Department of Education approximately 12 months after the end of the measuring period. Thus, in September 2013 the Department of Education published the two-year cohort default rates for the 2011 cohort, which measured the percentage of students who first entered into repayment during the year ended September 30, 2011 and defaulted prior to September 30, 2012. The measurement period for the cohort default rate has 30been increased to three years starting with the 2009 cohort, and the three-year cohort default rates for the 2010 cohort were also published by the Department of Education in September 2013.If an educational institution’s two-year cohort default rate exceeds 15% for any one of the three preceding years, it must delay for 30 days the release of the first disbursement of U.S. federal student loan proceeds to first time borrowers enrolled in the first year of an undergraduate program. If an institution’s two-year cohort default rate exceeds 25% for three consecutive years or 40% for any given year, it will be ineligible to participate in Title IV programs and, as a result, its students would not be eligible for federal student financial aid.If we are not recertified to participate in Title IV programs by the Department of Education or if the Department otherwise suspends or terminates our certification, we would lose eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. Capella University's current certification to participate in Title IV programs expires on June 30, 2014 and we have begun the process to renew our participation agreement. The Department of Education may also review our continued certification to participate in Title IV programs in the event we expand our activities in certain ways, such as opening an additional location or, in certain cases, if we modify the academic credentials that we offer. The Department of Education could limit, suspend or terminate our participation in Title IV programs for violations of the Higher Education Act or Title IV regulations. Title IV eligibility is critical to the continued operation of our business. If Capella University is not recertified or otherwise becomes ineligible to participate in Title IV federal student financial aid programs, we could not conduct our business as it is currently conducted and it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If any regulatory audit, investigation or other proceeding finds us not in compliance with the numerous laws and regulations applicable to the postsecondary education industry, we may not be able to successfully challenge such finding and our business could suffer.Due to the highly regulated nature of the postsecondary education industry, we are subject to audits, compliance reviews, inquiries, complaints, investigations, claims of non-compliance and lawsuits by federal and state governmental agencies, regulatory agencies, accrediting agencies, present and former students and employees, shareholders and other third parties, any of whom may allege violations of any of the regulatory requirements applicable to us. If the results of any such claims or actions are unfavorable to us, we may be required to pay monetary fines or penalties, be required to repay funds received under Title IV programs or state financial aid programs, have restrictions placed on or terminate our schools’ or programs’ eligibility to participate in Title IV programs or state financial aid programs, have limitations placed on or terminate our schools’ operations or ability to grant degrees and certificates, have our schools’ accreditations restricted or revoked, or be subject to civil or criminal penalties. Any one of these sanctions could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and result in the imposition of significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate. If we fail to maintain our institutional accreditation or if our institutional accrediting body loses recognition by the U.S. Department of Education, we could lose our ability to participate in Title IV programs and lose our authorization to operate in a number of states. Capella University is accredited by The Higher Learning Commission of the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools, one of six regional accrediting agencies recognized by the Secretary of the Department of Education as a reliable indicator of educational quality. Accreditation by a recognized accrediting agency is required for an institution to become and remain eligible to participate in Title IV programs. In February 2008, we received a letter of reaffirmation from The Higher Learning Commission that indicated the next re-affirmation decision would take place in the academic year 2014-2015. To remain accredited we must continuously meet certain criteria and standards relating to, among other things, performance, governance, institutional integrity, educational quality, faculty, administrative capability, resources and financial stability. Failure to meet any of these criteria or standards could result in the loss of accreditation at the discretion of The Higher Learning Commission. If the U.S. Department of Education ceased to recognize The Higher Learning Commission for any reason, Capella University would not be eligible to participate in Title IV programs beginning 18 months after the date such recognition ceased unless The Higher Learning Commission was again recognized or our institution was accredited by another accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education. In December 2009, the OIG requested the U.S. Department of Education review the appropriateness of the U.S. Department of Education’s recognition of The Higher Learning Commission as an accrediting body, following the OIG’s unfavorable review of The Higher Learning Commission’s initial accreditation of a non-traditional, for-profit postsecondary educational institution. Thereafter, following a regularly scheduled recognition review in June 2013 of the Higher Learning Commission by the U.S. Department of Education’s National Advisory Committee on Institutional Quality & Integrity, the Committee staff recommended the U.S. Department of Education continue the Higher Learning Commission’s 31recognition and that the Higher Learning Commission submit a compliance report within 12 months. We cannot predict the outcome of the U.S. Department of Education’s review of The Higher Learning Commission’s recognition. Regardless of the outcome of the U.S. Department of Education’s review of The Higher Learning Commission, the focus by the OIG and the U.S. Department of Education on the process pursuant to which The Higher Learning Commission accredited a non-traditional, for-profit postsecondary educational institution may make the accreditation review process more challenging for Capella University during future review processes. If this occurs, we may have to incur additional costs and/or curtail or modify certain program offerings in order to maintain our accreditation, which could increase our costs, reduce our enrollment and materially and adversely affect our business. The loss of accreditation would, among other things, render our learners and us ineligible to participate in Title IV programs, reduce the marketability of a Capella degree, affect our authorization to operate in certain states and decrease learner demand. If Capella University became ineligible to participate in Title IV programs, we could not conduct our business as it is currently conducted and it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If Capella University does not maintain its registration in Minnesota, it may not operate or participate in Title IV programs or operate in a number of other states. A school that grants degrees, diplomas or certificates must be authorized by the relevant education agency of the state in which it is located. Capella University is deemed to be located in the State of Minnesota and is registered with the Minnesota Office of Higher Education. Minnesota registration is also required for our learners to be eligible to receive funding under Title IV programs. Such registration may be lost or withdrawn if Capella University fails to submit renewal applications and other required submissions to the state in a timely manner, or if Capella University fails to comply with material requirements under Minnesota statutes and rules for continued registration. Loss of state registration of Capella University from the Minnesota Office of Higher Education would terminate our ability to provide educational services as well as our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. Capella must also remain in good standing with the Minnesota Office of Higher Education to obtain and maintain authorization or licensure to operate in states outside of Minnesota. Should our registration with the Minnesota Office of Higher Education be terminated, our ability to operate in other states would also cease, and it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Our business could be harmed if we experience a disruption in our ability to process student loans under the Federal Direct Loan Program.We collected the substantial majority of our fiscal year 2013 total consolidated net revenue from receipt of Title IV financial aid program funds, principally from federal student loans under the Federal Direct Loan Program (FDLP). Any processing disruptions by the U.S. Department of Education may impact our students’ ability to obtain student loans on a timely basis. If we experience a disruption in our ability to process student loans through the FDLP, either because of administrative challenges on our part or the inability of the Department of Education to process the volume of direct loans on a timely basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.A failure to demonstrate “financial responsibility” may result in the loss of eligibility by Capella University to participate in Title IV programs or require the posting of a letter of credit to maintain eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. To participate in Title IV programs, an eligible institution must satisfy specific measures of financial responsibility prescribed by the Department of Education, or post a letter of credit in favor of the Department of Education and possibly accept other conditions on its participation in Title IV programs. The Department of Education may also apply such measures of financial responsibility to the operating company and ownership entities of an eligible institution and, if such measures are not satisfied by the operating company or ownership entities, require the institution to post a letter of credit in favor of the Department of Education and possibly accept other conditions on its participation in Title IV programs. Any obligation to post a significant letter of credit could increase our costs of regulatory compliance. If Capella University is unable to secure a letter of credit, it would lose its eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. In addition to the obligation to post a letter of credit, an institution that is determined by the Department of Education not to be financially responsible can be transferred from the “advance” system of payment of Title IV funds to cash monitoring status or to the “reimbursement” system of payment. Limitations on, or termination of, Capella University’s participation in Title IV programs as a result of its failure to demonstrate financial responsibility would limit Capella University’s learners’ access to Title IV program funds, which could significantly reduce our enrollments and revenues and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A failure to demonstrate “administrative capability” may result in the loss of Capella University's eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. 32Department of Education regulations specify extensive criteria an institution must satisfy to establish that it has the requisite “administrative capability” to participate in Title IV programs. If an institution fails to satisfy any of these criteria or comply with any other Department of Education regulations, the Department of Education may: •require the repayment of Title IV funds; •transfer the institution from the “advance” system of payment of Title IV funds to cash monitoring status or to the “reimbursement” system of payment; •place the institution on provisional certification status; or •commence a proceeding to impose a fine or to limit, suspend or terminate the participation of the institution in Title IV programs. If we are found not to have satisfied the Department of Education’s “administrative capability” requirements we could be limited in our access to, or lose, Title IV program funding, which would significantly reduce our enrollment and revenues and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our failure to comply with regulations of various states could result in actions taken by those states that would have a material adverse effect on our enrollments, revenues and results of operations. Capella University is authorized to operate and to grant degrees by the applicable state agency of certain states where such authorization is required. Compliance with these state requirements is also necessary for students in the respective states to participate in Title IV programs. The loss of such authorization in one or more states would render students resident in those states ineligible to participate in Title IV programs and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Loss of authorization in one or more states could increase the likelihood of additional scrutiny and potential loss of operating and/or degree granting authority in other states in which we operate, which would further impact our business. We are in a time period where many states are reevaluating and revising their authorization regulations, especially as applied to distance education. This increased review and scrutiny has increased uncertainty regarding our regulatory status and ability to offer programs in certain states. If these pressures and uncertainty continue in the future, it could have a material impact on our enrollments, revenue, results of operations and cash flow. If we fail to comply with state licensing or authorization requirements, we may be subject to the loss of state licensure or authorization. Loss of authorization in one or more states could increase the likelihood of additional scrutiny and potential loss of operating and/or degree granting authority in other states in which we operate, which would further impact our business. Attorneys General in several states have become more active in enforcing consumer protection laws, especially related to recruiting practices and the financing of education at proprietary educational institutions. In addition, several Attorneys General have recently partnered with the Federal Consumer Financial Protection Bureau to review industry practices. If our past or current business practices at Capella University are found to violate applicable consumer protection laws, we could be subject to monetary fines or penalties and possible limitations on the manner in which we conduct our business, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. To the extent that more states commence such investigations or multiple states act in a concerted manner, the cost of responding to these inquiries and investigations could increase significantly and the potential impact on our business would be substantially greater.The inability of our graduates to obtain licensure or other specialized outcomes in their chosen professional fields of study could reduce our enrollments and revenues, and potentially lead to litigation that could be costly to us. Certain of our graduates seek professional licensure or other specialized outcomes in their chosen fields following graduation. Their success in obtaining these outcomes depends on several factors, including the individual merits of the learner, but also may depend on whether the institution and the program were approved by the state or by a professional association, whether the program from which the learner graduated meets all state requirements and whether the institution is accredited. Certain states have refused to license or certify learners from particular Capella University programs due to the fact that the program did not meet one or more of the state’s specific licensure requirements or were not approved by the state for purposes of professional licensure. In addition, professional associations may refuse to certify specialized outcomes for our learners for similar reasons. We have had to respond to claims brought against us by former learners as a result of such refusals. For instance, certain states have denied our graduates professional licensure because the Capella University program from which they graduated did not have a sufficient number of residency hours, did not include a state-approved clinical program, did not satisfy state coursework requirements, or was not accredited by a specific third party (such as the American Psychological Association). The state requirements for licensure are subject to change, as are the professional certification standards, and we may not immediately become aware of changes that may impact our learners in certain instances. In the event that one or more states refuses to 33recognize our learners for professional licensure, and/or professional associations refuse to certify specialized outcomes for our learners, based on factors relating to our institution or programs, the potential growth of our programs would be negatively impacted, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, we could be exposed to litigation that would force us to incur legal and other expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Risks Related to Our Business Changes we are making to our business to enhance our ability to identify and enroll students who have a greater likelihood to succeed and to improve the student experience may adversely affect our growth rate, profitability, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In order to increase our focus on improving the learner experience and attracting learners who are more likely to persist in our programs, we have implemented a number of important changes and initiatives to transition our business to more effectively support our students and improve their educational outcomes, which efforts continue. These initiatives include, but are not limited to, the following: •Upgrading our learning and data platforms; •Adopting new tools to better support learners' education financing decisions, such as our Responsible Borrowing Calculator, which is designed to help learners calculate the amount of learner borrowing necessary to achieve their educational objectives and to motivate them to not incur unnecessary student loan debt; •Transitioning our marketing approaches to more effectively identify learners who have the ability to succeed in our educational programs, including reduced emphasis on the utilization of third parties for lead generation; •Requiring an academic readiness assessment and increasingly requiring participation in orientation before enrolling;•Revising the training, development and evaluation metrics for our faculty to better support learner success initiatives; •Increasing our efforts to prevent non-legitimate learners from enrolling at Capella University, particularly at the undergraduate level; and •Better aligning our enrollment, admissions and other employees to our learners' success by redefining roles and responsibilities, resetting individual objectives and measures and implementing new compensation structures.•Increasingly requiring our doctoral learners to complete their dissertation within a certain timeframe.We are investing significant resources in these learner success initiatives, which will have an impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, particularly in the near term. Our financial performance depends in part on our ability to keep pace with current market needs, build our brand and maintain affordability. The updates and expansions of our existing programs and the development of new programs and specializations may not be accepted by existing or prospective learners or the employers of our graduates. If we cannot respond to changes in market requirements, our business may be adversely affected. We have shifted to more of a brand-driven marketing strategy in order to decrease our reliance on aggregators. This shift has significantly lowered our inquiry volume, and if we are unable to maintain improvements in our conversion rates and retain enrolled learners, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows would be adversely impacted. In addition, there is increasing focus and pressure on higher education providers to improve affordability. If we are unable to keep pace with market and external expectations regarding affordability, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows would be adversely impacted.Efforts to diversify our business outside of the traditional areas served by Capella University may adversely impact our financial performance.As we seek opportunities to expand our business and serve markets beyond those traditionally served by Capella University, we will encounter strategic and operational challenges different than those within our core business. If we are unable to successfully capitalize on these opportunities, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows would be adversely impacted.34Certain of our programs have specialized accreditations and/or state approvals; our business may be adversely impacted if we are unable to obtain such accreditations or approvals in the future, or if such accreditations or approvals impose requirements that impact other aspects of our business. Certain of our programs, especially at the master's and doctorate level, have specialized accreditations which are desirable to our learners and may be important to learners obtaining licensure in their chosen field of study. In addition, certain of our education-related programs are approved by the Minnesota Board of Teaching or other state oversight authorities. If we are unable to obtain or renew such accreditations or approvals in the future, our programs will be less attractive to prospective learners and our current learners in such programs will be negatively impacted. In addition, these specialized accrediting bodies or state agencies may impose requirements which adversely impact our business, such as limiting or closing enrollments to certain programs, imposing specific faculty to learner ratios or dictating the way in which we name and market related programs. These situations could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our financial performance depends on our ability to continue to develop awareness among, and attract and retain, high quality learners. Building awareness of Capella University and the programs we offer among working adult professionals, Capella's primary target market, is critical to our ability to attract prospective learners. If we are unable to successfully market and advertise our educational programs, Capella University's ability to attract and enroll prospective learners in such programs could be adversely affected, and consequently, our ability to increase revenue or maintain profitability could be impaired. It is also critical to our success that we convert these prospective learners to enrolled learners in a cost-effective manner and that these enrolled learners remain active in our programs. Some of the factors that could prevent us from successfully enrolling and retaining learners in our programs include: •the emergence of more successful competitors; •factors related to our marketing, including the costs of Internet advertising and broad-based branding campaigns; •performance problems with our online systems; •failure to maintain accreditation; •learner dissatisfaction with our services and programs, including with our customer service and responsiveness; •adverse publicity regarding us, our competitors, or online or for-profit education in general; •price reductions by competitors that we are unwilling or unable to match; •a decline in the acceptance of online education or our degree offerings by learners or current and prospective employers; •increased regulation of online education, including in states in which we do not have a physical presence; •a decrease in the perceived or actual economic benefits that learners derive from our programs; •litigation or regulatory investigations that may damage our reputation;•difficulties in executing on our strategy as a preferred provider to employers for the vertical markets we serve; and•building and leveraging our presence in social media and mobile-device services. If we are unable to continue to develop awareness of Capella University and the programs we offer, and to enroll and retain learners, our enrollments would suffer and our ability to increase revenues and maintain profitability would be significantly impaired. We face intense and increasing competition in the postsecondary education market, especially in the online education market, which could decrease our market share, increase our cost of attracting learners and put downward pressure on our tuition rates. Postsecondary education, especially in the online market, is highly competitive and becoming increasingly so. We compete with traditional public and private two-year and four-year colleges and other proprietary schools, as well as corporate universities and software companies providing online education and training software. In addition, we face competition from various emerging nontraditional, credit-bearing and noncredit-bearing education programs, provided by both proprietary and not-for-profit providers, including massive open online courses (MOOCs) offered worldwide without charge by traditional educational institutions and other direct-to-consumer education services. Each of these competitors may offer programs similar to ours at lower tuition levels as a result of government subsidies, government and foundation grants, tax-deductible 35contributions and other financial sources not available to for-profit institutions. An increasing number of traditional colleges and community colleges are offering distance learning and other online education programs, including programs that are geared towards the needs of working learners. This trend has been accelerated by private companies that provide and/or manage online learning platforms for traditional colleges and community colleges. As the proportion of traditional colleges providing alternative learning modalities increases, we will face increasing competition for students from traditional colleges, including colleges with well-established reputations for excellence. As the online and distance learning segment of the postsecondary education market matures, we believe that the intensity of the competition we face will continue to increase.This intense competition could make it more challenging for us to enroll students who are likely to succeed in our educational programs, which could adversely affect our enrollment levels and put downward pressure on our tuition rates, either of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.For example, as the market continues to mature, certain of our competitors have begun to reduce tuition rates or offer significant discounts in the form of grants or scholarships. Capella University, like other universities particularly in the proprietary sector, has increased our use of grants to improve learner persistence and as incentive to increase demand. Continuation of this trend will further decrease the amount of tuition we receive from learners unless we can increase persistence and/or increase our spending to pursue new market opportunities. In addition, certain of our competitors have increased their focus on markets and learners that we have historically served, and these actions could increase costs and decrease our enrollments and revenue. As Capella University seeks to strengthen its employer alignment, we face increased competition in maintaining and developing new marketing relationships with corporations and other employers, particularly as employers become more selective as to which online universities they will encourage their current employees to attend and from which online universities they will hire prospective employees. These competitive factors could adversely affect our enrollments, revenue, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.If we fail to maintain adequate systems and processes to detect and prevent fraudulent activity in learner enrollment and financial aid, our business could be adversely impacted. As we continue to grow, we are susceptible to an increased risk of fraudulent activity by outside parties with respect to learner enrollment and student financial aid programs. While we believe past incidents of fraudulent activity have been relatively isolated, we cannot be certain that our systems and processes will always be adequate in the face of increasingly sophisticated and ever-changing fraud schemes. The potential for outside parties to perpetrate fraud in connection with the award and disbursement of Title IV program funds, including as a result of identity theft, may be heightened due to our nature as an online education provider. We must maintain systems and processes to identify and prevent fraudulent applications for enrollment and financial aid. Efforts we take to identify and prevent fraudulent applications may also impose additional processes on potential legitimate learners, as well, which could adversely affect our enrollments, revenue, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Department of Education requires institutions that participate in Title IV programs to refer to the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Education any credible information indicating that any applicant, employee, third-party servicer, or agent of the institution that acts in a capacity that involves administration of the Title IV programs has been engaged in any fraud or other illegal conduct involving Title IV programs. If the systems and processes that we have established to detect and prevent fraud are inadequate, the Department of Education may find that we do not satisfy its “administrative capability” requirements. This could limit our access to, or cause us to lose, Title IV program funding, which would adversely affect our enrollment, revenues, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, our ability to participate in Title IV programs is conditioned on our maintaining accreditation by an accrediting agency that is recognized by the Secretary of Education. Any significant failure to adequately detect fraudulent activity related to learner enrollment and financial aid could cause us to fail to meet our accrediting agencies’ standards. Furthermore, under the HEA, accrediting agencies that evaluate institutions that offer distance learning programs, as we do, must require such institutions to have processes through which the institution establishes that a learner who registers for a distance education program is the same learner who participates in and receives credit for the program. Failure to meet our accrediting agencies’ standards could result in the loss of accreditation at the discretion of our accrediting agencies, which could result in a loss of our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs and would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We rely on third party vendors, and the outsourcing increases our operational and compliance risk.We rely on third party vendors to provide services to us and our learners. While we monitor and assess the service of these vendors, it is possible their service and response levels may be less than ours, and that they may not have adequate business continuity planning. In addition, using third party vendors increases compliance risk, if they do not adequately protect learners’ sensitive data or personally identifiable information, or if they do not comply with applicable federal or state regulations 36applicable to our business. In the event of any of those or related actions or omissions by third party vendors, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows would be adversely impacted. System disruptions and vulnerability from security risks to our online computer networks could impact our business and financial performance and damage the reputation of Capella University, limiting our ability to attract and retain learners. The performance and reliability of our technology infrastructure is critical to our reputation and ability to attract and retain learners. Any system error or failure, or a sudden and significant increase in bandwidth usage, could result in the unavailability of our course room platform, damaging our business and financial performance and the reputation of Capella University. Our technology infrastructure could be vulnerable to interruption or malfunction due to events beyond our control, including natural disasters, terrorist activities and telecommunications failures. Our core computer network infrastructure is concentrated in a single geographic area. If we experience a catastrophic failure or unavailability for any reason of both our principal data center and backup data center, we may need to replicate the function of these data centers elsewhere, which may require expensive and time-consuming equipping and restoring activities. The disruption from such an event could significantly impact our operations and have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may experience interruptions or failures in our computer systems as a result of ongoing maintenance of and enhancements to our enterprise resource planning system, course room platform, and/or server system. Any interruption to our technology infrastructure could have a material adverse effect on our ability to attract and retain learners and could require us to incur additional expenses to correct or mitigate the interruption. Our computer networks may also be vulnerable to cyber attacks such as unauthorized access, computer hackers, computer viruses, malware and other security problems and system disruptions. We engage with multiple information security assessment providers on a periodic basis to review, assess and remediate our information security program. We utilize this information to audit ourselves to ensure that we are continually monitoring the security of our technology infrastructure, but it may still be vulnerable to threats. Circumvention of information security measures could lead to misappropriation of personally identifiable or proprietary information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in operations. As a result, we may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of these security breaches, respond to loss or exposure of data or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.The personal information that we collect may be vulnerable to breach, theft or loss that could adversely affect our reputation and operations. Possession and use of personal information in our operations subjects us to risks and costs that could harm our business. Capella University collects, uses and retains large amounts of personal information regarding our learners and their families, including social security numbers, tax return information, personal and family financial data and credit card numbers. We also collect and maintain personal information of our employees in the ordinary course of our business. Some of this personal information is held and managed by certain of our vendors. Although we use security and business controls to limit access and use of personal information, a third party may be able to circumvent those security and business controls, which could result in a breach of learner or employee privacy. In addition, errors in the storage, use or transmission of personal information could result in a breach of learner or employee privacy. Possession and use of personal information in our operations also subjects us to legislative and regulatory burdens that could require notification of data breaches and restrict our use of personal information. We cannot guarantee that a breach, loss or theft of personal information will not occur. A breach, theft or loss of personal information regarding our learners and their families or our employees that is held by us or our vendors could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and results of operations and result in liability under state and federal privacy statutes and legal actions by state attorneys, general and private litigants, and any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may experience reduced revenue and operating margins if the proportion of our learners enrolled in doctoral programs continues to decrease, or if our learner success initiatives are not successful.The proportion of our learners enrolled in our doctoral programs has and continues to decline. This mix shift can put downward pressure on revenue growth and operating margins. An acceleration of this mix shift, or reduced enrollments due to our learner success efforts focused on improving doctoral learners' completion, could adversely affect our future business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 37We may experience increased costs, reduced margins and an increase in bad debt expense if the proportion of our learners who are enrolled in our bachelor's degree programs continues to increase. Our bachelor's degree programs are currently growing at a faster rate than our doctoral or master's degree programs. This bachelor's degree growth has caused the proportion of our learners enrolled in bachelor's degree programs to increase, while the proportion enrolled in our doctoral programs has decreased. This mix shift may continue in the future, and we may experience certain negative consequences, such as decreased revenue per learner, higher cost per new enrollment, lower retention rates and/or higher learner services costs, higher default rates, an increase in our learner loan cohort default rate, an increase in bad debt expense, an increase in the percentage of our revenue derived from Title IV funding under the 90/10 Rules, more limited ability to implement tuition price increases and other effects that may adversely affect our operating results. We rely on exclusive proprietary rights and intellectual property that may not be adequately protected under current laws, and we encounter disputes from time to time relating to our use of intellectual property of third parties. Our success depends in part on our ability to protect our proprietary rights. We rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secrets, domain names and agreements to protect our proprietary rights. We rely on service mark and trademark protection in the United States and select foreign jurisdictions to protect our rights to the marks “CAPELLA,” “CAPELLA EDUCATION COMPANY,” and “CAPELLA UNIVERSITY,” as well as distinctive logos and other marks associated with our services. We rely on agreements under which we obtain rights to use course content developed by faculty members and other third-party content experts. We cannot guarantee that these measures will be adequate, that we have secured, or will be able to secure, appropriate protections for all of our proprietary rights in the United States or select foreign jurisdictions, or that third parties will not infringe upon or violate our proprietary rights. Despite our efforts to protect these rights, unauthorized third parties may attempt to duplicate or copy the proprietary aspects of our curricula, online resource material and other content. Our management's attention may be diverted by these attempts and we may need to use funds in litigation to protect our proprietary rights against any infringement or violation, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. We may encounter disputes from time to time over rights and obligations concerning intellectual property, and we may not prevail in these disputes. In certain instances, we may not have obtained sufficient rights in the content of a course. Third parties have in the past and may again in the future raise claims against us alleging an infringement or violation of the intellectual property of that third party. Some third party intellectual property rights may be extremely broad, and it may not be possible for us to conduct our operations in such a way as to avoid those intellectual property rights. Any such intellectual property claim could subject us to costly litigation and impose a significant strain on our financial resources and management personnel regardless of whether such claim has merit. Our general liability and cyber liability insurance may not cover potential claims of this type adequately or at all, and we may be required to alter the content of our classes or pay monetary damages or license fees to third parties, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our learner population and revenues could decrease if the government tuition assistance offered to U.S. Armed Forces personnel is reduced or eliminated, if the tuition discounts which we offer to U.S. Armed Forces personnel are reduced or eliminated, or if our informal arrangements with any military bases deteriorate. Active duty members of the U.S. Armed Forces are eligible to receive tuition assistance from the government, which they may use to pursue postsecondary degrees. We offer tuition discounts generally ranging from 10% to 15% to all members of the U.S. Armed Forces and immediate family members of active duty U.S. Armed Forces personnel. As of December 31, 2013, learners receiving a military discount comprised approximately 13% of total enrollment. We also have non-exclusive agreements with various educational institutions of the U.S. Armed Forces pursuant to which we have agreed to accept credits toward a Capella University degree from certain military educational programs. These agreements generally may be terminated by either party upon 30 to 45 days notice. Additionally, we have informal arrangements with several military bases pursuant to which the bases make information about Capella University available to interested service members. Each of these informal arrangements is not binding on either party and either party could end the arrangement at any time. If our informal arrangement with any military base deteriorates or ends, our efforts to recruit learners from that base will be impaired. In the event that governmental tuition assistance programs to active duty members of the U.S. Armed Forces are reduced or eliminated, if our tuition discount program which we offer U.S. Armed Forces personnel and their immediate family members is reduced or eliminated, or if our informal arrangements with any military base deteriorates, this could materially and adversely affect our revenues, results of operations and cash flows. If we fail to offer products aligned with employer expectations or do not maintain existing, and develop additional, relationships with employers, our future growth may be impaired. 38Our success depends in part on our ability to offer products aligned with learners’ professional goals and employer expectations. If our products are not aligned with these external needs, then our offerings will be less successful and this would materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, we currently have relationships with large employers to provide their employees with the opportunity to obtain degrees through us while continuing their employment. These relationships are an important part of our strategy as they provide us with a steady source of potential working adult learners for particular programs and also serve to increase our reputation among high-profile employers. If we are unable to develop new relationships, or if our existing relationships deteriorate or end, our efforts to seek these sources of potential working adult learners will be impaired, and this could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The pace of innovation in higher education is intense and accelerating, and we will not be successful if we do not keep pace.Our success is built in part on our ability to innovate and adapt to a quickly changing environment. The pace of innovation in higher education continues to accelerate, and if we do not continue to innovate quickly and successfully, our offerings will be less successful and this would materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business may be adversely affected by a further economic slowdown or recession in the U.S. or abroad or by an economic recovery in the U.S. The U.S. and much of the world have experienced a challenging economic environment. Homeowners in the U.S. have experienced an unprecedented reduction in wealth due to the decline in residential real estate values across much of the country. These events, particularly unemployment and residential real estate financing challenges, may reduce the number of courses taken simultaneously by each of our learners or otherwise reduce the demand for our programs and colloquia among learners, including among learners who receive financial aid and determine they are unwilling to incur additional debt during current economic conditions, regardless of financial aid availability. Further, these events may reduce the willingness of employers to sponsor educational opportunities for their employees. An economic recovery or continued economic challenges may reduce the demand for higher education as fewer potential learners seek to advance their education. This could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, these events could adversely affect the ability or willingness of our former learners to repay student loans, which could increase our student loan cohort default rate and require increased time, attention and resources to manage these defaults. We may not be able to successfully identify, pursue or integrate acquisitions; acquisitions, and diversification opportunities beyond our core business, may result in dilution.As part of our growth strategy, we are actively considering acquisition and diversification opportunities in the U.S. and worldwide, which involve significant risks and uncertainties, including: •Inability to successfully integrate the acquired operations, including the information technology systems, into our institutions and maintain uniform standards, controls, policies and procedures;•Inability to successfully operate and grow the acquired businesses;•Distraction of management's attention from normal business operations;•Challenges retaining the key employees of the acquired operation;•Operating, market or other challenges causing operating results to be less than projected;•Expenses associated with the acquisition;•Challenges relating to conforming non-compliant financial reporting procedures to those required of a subsidiary of a U.S. reporting company, including procedures required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; and•Unidentified issues not discovered in our due diligence process, including commitments and/or contingencies.Acquisitions and diversification opportunities are inherently risky. We cannot be certain that our previous or future acquisitions and diversification opportunities will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition opportunities, acquire institutions on favorable terms, or successfully integrate or profitably operate acquired institutions. Future transactions may involve use of our cash resources, issuance of equity or debt securities, and may be dilutive to earnings, which could adversely affect our business, 39financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we issue equity securities as consideration in an acquisition, current shareholders' percentage ownership and earnings per share may be diluted. In addition, our acquisition of an educational institution could be considered a change in ownership and control of the acquired institution under applicable regulatory standards. For such an acquisition in the U.S., we may need approval from the U.S. Department of Education and applicable state agencies and accrediting agencies and possibly other regulatory bodies. Our inability to obtain such approvals with respect to a completed acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our expansion into new markets outside the U.S. subjects us to risks inherent in international operations. As part of our growth strategy, we have acquired a proprietary educational institution in the UK, and we may actively pursue additional acquisitions outside the U.S. To the extent that we make such acquisitions, we will face risks that are inherent in international operations, including: •Complexity of operations across borders; •Compliance with foreign legal and regulatory environments;•Currency exchange rate fluctuations;•Monetary policy risks, such as inflation, hyperinflation and deflation;•Price controls or restrictions on exchange of foreign currencies;•Potential political and economic instability in the countries in which we operate, including potential student uprisings;•Expropriation of assets by local governments;•Multiple and possibly overlapping and conflicting tax laws;•Compliance with anti-corruption laws and regulations such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010;•Potential unionization of employees under local labor laws and local labor laws that make it more expensive and complex to negotiate with, retain or terminate employees;•Greater difficulty in utilizing and enforcing our intellectual property and contract rights;•Failure to understand the local culture and market;•Limitations on the repatriation of funds; and•Increased acts of terrorism and war, epidemics and natural disasters in new geographic regions.RDI may not be granted Taught Degree Awarding Powers (TDAP).As a result of years of investment in its academic infrastructure, RDI has applied to the British government for TDAP. If awarded, TDAP will enable RDI to independently validate its own degrees going forward under the auspices of the Quality Assurance Agency, a Government body that reviews the standards and quality of all UK universities. RDI's inability to obtain such certification may result in lower than anticipated operating performance.Our credit agreement limits our ability to take various actions. In certain circumstances, our credit agreement limits our ability to take various actions, including paying dividends, repurchasing shares, offering loans to learners, and acquiring and disposing of assets or businesses. Accordingly, we may be restricted from taking actions that management believes would be desirable and in the best interests of us and our shareholders. Our credit agreement also requires us to satisfy specified financial and non-financial covenants, including covenants relating to regulatory compliance. A breach of any covenants contained in our credit agreement would result in an event of default under the agreement and allow the lenders to pursue various remedies, including accelerating the repayment of any indebtedness outstanding under the agreement, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Item 1B.Unresolved Staff Comments None. 