ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related To Our Business Our customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities or delay production, and if we fail to forecast demand for our products accurately, we may incur product shortages, delays in product shipments or excess or insufficient product inventory. We generally do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers. Because production lead times often exceed the amount of time required to fulfill orders, we often must build in advance of orders, relying on an imperfect demand forecast to project volumes and product mix. Our demand forecast accuracy can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including inaccurate forecasting by our customers, changes in 14 Table of Contents market conditions, new part introductions by our competitors that lead to our loss of previous design wins, adverse changes in our product order mix and demand for our customers’ products or models. China, in particular, is an emerging market where forecasting by our distributors is not accurate, and there can be rapid changes in the distribution system and market conditions. Even after an order is received, our customers may cancel these orders or request a decrease in production quantities. Any such cancellation or decrease subjects us to a number of risks, most notably that our projected sales will not materialize on schedule or at all, leading to unanticipated revenue shortfalls and excess or obsolete inventory which we may be unable to sell to other customers. Alternatively, if we are unable to project customer requirements accurately, we may not build enough products, which could lead to delays in product shipments and lost sales opportunities in the near term, as well as force our customers to identify alternative sources, which could affect our ongoing relationships with these customers. We have in the past had customers dramatically increase their requested production quantities with little or no advance notice and after they had submitted their original order. We have on occasion been unable to fulfill these revised orders within the time period requested. Either underestimating or overestimating demand would lead to excess, obsolete or insufficient inventory, which could harm our operating results, cash flow and financial condition, as well as our relationships with our customers. For example, we recorded inventory write-downs of $3.3 million, $1.9 million and $0.8 million in the fiscal years ended 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively. We receive a substantial portion of our revenues from one customer and most of our revenues from a small number of customers, and the loss of, or a significant reduction in, orders from that customer or our other largest customers would adversely affect our operations and financial condition. We receive a substantial portion of our revenues from one customer, LG Electronics Inc. of South Korea. We received an aggregate of approximately 37% of our revenues from LG for fiscal year 2005 and 43% of our revenues from LG in fiscal year 2004. We anticipate that we will continue to be dependent on LG for a significant portion of our revenues in the immediate future; however, we do not have long-term contractual purchase commitments from LG, and we cannot assure you that LG will continue to be our customer. We received an aggregate of approximately 80% of our revenues from our ten largest customers for 2005. Any action by LG or any of our other largest customers that affects our orders, product pricing or vendor status could significantly reduce our revenues and harm our financial results. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2004, we experienced a 33% sequential quarterly decline in revenues from LG as a result of LG’s prior increase in inventory of our products in the third quarter in anticipation of the peak fourth-quarter buying season for the wireless handsets in which our products are primarily used by LG. In the future, our sales to LG or our other large customers will continue to be susceptible to this type of quarterly fluctuation as our customers manage their inventories, principally for seasonal variations. In particular, our customers’ increase in inventory of our products in advance of this peak buying season for wireless handsets often leads to sequentially lower sales of our products in the first calendar quarter and, potentially, late in the fourth calendar quarter. In addition, while in the past the principal LG divisions that purchase our products have been separately responsible for purchasing, inventory and other supply chain logistics, these functions of these divisions underwent a consolidation in 2005. This consolidation has reduced our ability to forecast orders from LG because we no longer receive orders directly from the LG divisions using our products. In addition, we are required to supply inventory to a centralized location based on a forecast provided by LG for the ensuing 30 days on a consolidated basis, which requires us to incur the cost of producing materials in advance of receiving a purchase commitment from LG. If LG does not purchase the inventory that was forecasted, we will be required to find alternative customers for the inventory and we may be unsuccessful in doing so at acceptable prices or at all, which would require us to write down or write off the inventory supplied by us to LG’s centralized location. LG implemented this consolidation and hub structure in 2005. We therefore have limited experience in understanding and forecasting LG’s ordering patterns under this structure. Because our largest customers account for such a significant part of our business, the loss of, or a decline in sales to, any of our major customers would negatively impact our business. 15 Table of Contents Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and we expect our operating results to continue to fluctuate. Our revenues are difficult to predict and have varied significantly in the past from period to period. We expect our revenues and expense levels to continue to vary in the future, making it difficult to predict our future operating results. In particular, we experience seasonality and variability in demand for our products as our customers manage their inventories. Our customers tend to increase inventory of our products in anticipation of the peak fourth quarter buying season for the mobile consumer electronic devices in which our products are used, which often leads to sequentially lower sales of our products in the first calendar quarter and, potentially, late in the fourth calendar quarter. Additional factors that could cause our results to fluctuate include: • the forecasting, scheduling, rescheduling or cancellation of orders by our customers, particularly in China and other emerging markets; • liquidity and cash flow of our distributors and end-market customers; • changes in manufacturing costs, including wafer, test and assembly costs, and manufacturing yields, product quality and reliability; • the timing and availability of adequate manufacturing capacity from our manufacturing suppliers; • our ability to successfully define, design and release new products in a timely manner that meet our customers’ needs; • the timing, performance and pricing of new product introductions by us and by our competitors; • general economic conditions in the countries where we operate or our products are used; • changes in exchange rates, interest rates, tax rates and tax withholding; • geopolitical stability, especially affecting China, Taiwan and Asia in general; • costs associated with litigation, especially related to intellectual property; and • changes in domestic and international tax laws. Unfavorable changes in any of the above factors, most of which are beyond our control, could significantly harm our business and results of operations. We may be unsuccessful in developing and selling new products or in penetrating new markets. We operate in a dynamic environment characterized by rapidly changing technologies and industry standards and technological obsolescence. Our competitiveness and future success depends on our ability to design, develop, manufacture, assemble, test, market and support new products and enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis. A fundamental shift in technologies in any of our product markets could harm our competitive position within these markets. Our failure to anticipate these shifts, to develop new technologies or to react to changes in existing technologies could materially delay our development of new products, which could result in product obsolescence, decreased revenues and a loss of design wins to our competitors. The success of a new product depends on accurate forecasts of long-term market demand and future technological developments, as well as on a variety of specific implementation factors, including: • effective marketing, sales and service; • timely and efficient completion of process design and device structure improvements and implementation of manufacturing, assembly and test processes; and • the quality, performance and reliability of the product. 16 Table of Contents If we fail to introduce new products or penetrate new markets, our revenues will likely decrease over time and our financial condition could suffer. Our products must meet exacting specifications, and defects and failures may occur, which may cause customers to return or stop buying our products and may expose us to product liability claims. Our customers generally establish demanding specifications for quality, performance and reliability that our products must meet. Integrated circuits, or ICs, as complex as ours often encounter development delays and may contain undetected defects or failures when first introduced or after commencement of commercial shipments, which might require product replacement or recall. For example, in 2003 one of our low-dropout linear regulator products that we had been shipping for two years developed unacceptably high failure rates, which caused us to direct our engineering personnel from other priorities to redesign the product. If defects and failures occur in our products during the design phase or after, we could experience lost revenues, increased costs, including warranty expense and costs associated with customer support, delays in or cancellations or rescheduling of orders or shipments, or product returns or discounts, any of which would harm our operating results. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources, including any available insurance, to satisfy any asserted claims. The nature of the design process requires us to incur expenses prior to earning revenues associated with those expenses, and we will have difficulty selling our products if system designers do not design our products into their electronic systems. We devote significant time and resources in working with our customers’ system designers to understand their future needs and to provide products that we believe will meet those needs. If a customer’s system designer initially chooses a competitor’s product for a particular electronic system, it becomes significantly more difficult for us to sell our products for use in that electronic system because changing suppliers can involve significant cost, time, effort and risk for our customers. We often incur significant expenditures in the development of a new product without any assurance that our customers’ system designers will select our product for use in their electronic systems. We often are required to anticipate which product designs will generate demand in advance of our customers expressly indicating a need for that particular design. In some cases, there is minimal or no demand for our products in our anticipated target applications. For example, in 2000, we created a USB hub protection device that we believed would be used in flat panel monitors; however, our customers’ products have not evolved as we expected, and consequently we have not generated significant customer demand for this product to date. Even if our products are selected by our customers’ system designers, a substantial period of time will elapse before we generate revenues related to the significant expenses we have incurred. The reasons for this delay generally include the following elements of our product sales and development cycle timeline and related influences: • our customers usually require a comprehensive technical evaluation of our products before they incorporate them into their electronic systems; • it can take up to 12 months from the time our products are selected to complete the design process; • it can take an additional nine to 12 months or longer to complete commercial introduction of the electronic systems that use our products, if they are introduced at all; • original equipment manufacturers typically limit the initial release of their electronic systems to evaluate performance and consumer demand; and • the development and commercial introduction of products incorporating new technology are frequently delayed. We estimate that the overall sales and development cycle timeline of an average product is approximately 16 months. 17 Table of Contents Additionally, even if system designers use our products in their electronic systems, we cannot assure you that these systems will be commercially successful. As a result, we are unable to accurately forecast the volume and timing of our orders and revenues associated with any new product introductions. Because we receive a substantial portion of our revenues through distributors, their financial viability and ability to access the capital markets could impact our ability to continue to do business with them and could result in lower revenues, which could adversely affect our operating results and our customer relationships. We obtain a portion of our revenues through sales to distributors located outside of North America who act as our fulfillment representatives. Sales to distributors accounted for 42% and 40% of our revenues for fiscal years 2005 and 2004, respectively. In the normal course of their operation as fulfillment representatives, these distributors typically perform functions such as order scheduling, shipment coordination, inventory stocking, payment and collections and, when applicable, currency exchange between purchasers of our products and these distributors. Our distributors’ compensation for these functions is reflected in the price of the products we sell to these distributors. Many of our current distributors also serve as our sales representatives procuring orders for us to fill directly. If these distributors are unable to pay us in a timely manner or if we anticipate that they will not pay us, we may elect to withhold future shipments, which could adversely affect our operating results. For example, during the fourth quarter of 2004, a number of our distributors in China delayed payments to us, generally due to an unanticipated regional increase in restrictions on credit. As a result of these liquidity concerns, we limited our sales to these distributors, which adversely affected our revenues and operating results in the fourth quarter of 2004. If one of our distributors experiences severe financial difficulties, becomes insolvent or declares bankruptcy, we could lose product inventory held by that distributor and we could be required to write off the value of any receivables owed to us by that distributor. We could also be required to record bad debt expense in excess of our reserves. For example, in the first quarter of 2005, we noticed a slowing in the payment pattern of our largest distributor, EPCO Technology Co., Ltd., and it became apparent that EPCO had serious financial problems. As a result, we recorded a bad debt expense of $0.1 million in the fourth quarter of 2004. We have since ceased doing business with EPCO, from which we received approximately 7% of our revenues in 2004, and have engaged replacement distributors. In the future, we may not be successful in recognizing these indications or in finding replacement distributors in a timely manner, or at all, which could harm our operating results, cash flow and financial condition. Our distributor arrangements often require us to accept product returns and to provide price protection, which could harm our operating results or, if we fail to take these steps, could harm our relationship with these distributors and lead to a loss of revenues. A substantial portion of our sales are made through third-party distribution arrangements, which include stock rotation rights that generally permit the return of up to 5% and, in the case of one customer, 8%, of the previous six months’ purchases. We also may be obligated to repurchase unsold products from a distributor if we decide to terminate our relationship with that distributor. Our arrangements with our distributors typically also include price protection provisions if we reduce our list prices. We record estimated returns at the time of shipment, and we record reserves for price protection at the time we decide to reduce our list prices. In the future, we could receive returns or claims that are in excess of our estimates and reserves, which could harm our operating results. If our relationship with any of our distributors deteriorates or terminates, it could lead to a temporary or permanent loss of revenues until a replacement sales channel can be established to service the affected end-user customers, as well as inventory write-offs or accounts receivable write-offs. We may not be successful in finding suitable alternative distributors and this could adversely affect our ability to sell in certain locations or to certain end-user customers. We have a limited operating history, and we may have difficulty accurately predicting our future revenues for the purpose of appropriately budgeting and adjusting our expenses. We were incorporated in 1997, commenced operations in 1998 and generated only nominal revenues prior to 2001. We did not become profitable until 2003. We therefore have only a short history from which to predict 18 Table of Contents future revenues and an even shorter history of managing profitability. Our limited operating experience, a dynamic and rapidly evolving market in which we sell our products, our dependence on a limited number of customers, as well as numerous other factors beyond our control, impede our ability to forecast quarterly and annual revenues accurately. As a result, we could experience budgeting and cash flow management problems, unexpected fluctuations in our results of operations and other difficulties, any of which could make it difficult for us to maintain profitability and could increase the volatility of the market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2005, we had a material weakness and significant deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately, which may cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have an adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. In connection with the annual audit of our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005, an error requiring an adjustment to correct our tax expense and deferred tax assets as a consequence of the intercompany transactions relating to the implementation of our international tax structure was identified by our independent registered public accounting firm. This adjustment, which was for an amount that was material to our consolidated financial statements, is evidence that our controls over the preparation and review of our income tax provision and related deferred tax accounts did not operate effectively as we transitioned to our current international tax structure. Due to the size of the adjustment, this constitutes a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm identified errors requiring adjustments relating to our expensing of stock options granted to certain consultants and our valuation of our inventory held by our subcontractors, which constitute significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. We have not completed our implementation of the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and as a result, our independent registered public accounting firm was not engaged to audit, nor has it audited, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, our independent registered public accounting firm has not rendered an opinion on our internal control over financial reporting. We intend to take measures, including the hiring of additional personnel, that we believe will remediate these weaknesses in our internal controls. However, we cannot assure you that we have identified all, or that we will not in the future have or identify additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies, or that our remedial measures will be sufficient to resolve any material weakness or significant deficiency. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in the implementation of improvements to our internal controls, could cause us to fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting that are required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for 2002 for us beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2006, which we will file in early 2007. The existence of a material weakness or a significant deficiency could result in errors in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price. These matters are explained in greater detail under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis—Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.” Our current backlog may not be indicative of future sales. Due to the nature of our business, in which order lead times may vary, and the fact that customers are generally allowed to reschedule or cancel orders on short notice, we believe that our backlog is not necessarily a good indicator of our future sales. Our quarterly revenues also depend on orders booked and shipped in that quarter. Because our lead times for the manufacturing of our products generally take six to ten weeks, we often must build in advance of orders. This exposes us to certain risks, most notably the possibility that expected sales will not occur, which may lead to excess inventory, and we may not be able to sell this inventory to other 19 Table of Contents customers. In addition, we supply LG, our largest customer, through its central hub and we do not record backlog with respect to the products we ship to the hub. Therefore, our backlog may not be a reliable indicator of future sales. If consumer demand for mobile consumer electronic devices declines, our revenues will decrease. Our products are used primarily in the mobile consumer electronic devices market. For the foreseeable future, we expect to see the significant majority of our revenues continue to come from this market, especially in wireless handsets. If consumer demand for these products declines, our revenues will decrease. If we are unsuccessful in identifying alternative markets for our products in a timely manner, our operating results will suffer dramatically. The average selling price of our products may decline, or a change in the mix of product orders may occur, either of which could reduce our gross margins. During a power management product’s life, its selling price tends to decrease for a particular application. As a result, to maintain gross margins on our products, we must continue to identify new applications for our products, reduce manufacturing costs for our existing products and introduce new products. If we are unable to identify new, high gross margin applications for our existing products, reduce our production costs or sell new, high gross margin products, our gross margins will suffer. A sustained reduction in our gross margins could harm our future operating results, cash flow and financial condition, which could lead to a significant drop in the price of our common stock. Substantially all of our customers and operations are located in Asia, which subjects us to additional risks, including regionalized economic influences, logistical complexity, political instability and currency fluctuations. We conduct, and expect to continue to conduct, almost all of our business with companies that are located outside the United States. Based on ship-to locations, we derived approximately 99% of our revenues from customers outside of the United States in fiscal years 2005, 2004 and 2003, and approximately 96%, 95%, and 94% of our revenues came from customers in Asia, particularly South Korea, Taiwan, China and Japan, in fiscal years 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. A vast majority of our contract manufacturing operations are located in South Korea, Taiwan, Malaysia and China. As a result of our international focus, we face several challenges, including: • increased complexity and costs of managing international operations; • longer and more difficult collection of receivables; • political and economic instability; • limited protection of our intellectual property; • unanticipated changes in local regulations, including tax regulations; • timing and availability of import and export licenses; and • foreign currency exchange fluctuations relating to our international operating activities. We are also more susceptible to the regionalized economic impact of health crises. For example, we believe that our second quarter 2003 results of operations were significantly harmed by the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS, epidemic experienced in Asia during that time, which reduced demand for our products by our customers in Asia. Because we anticipate that we will continue to rely heavily on foreign companies or U.S. companies operating in Asia for our future growth, the above risks and issues that we do not currently anticipate could adversely affect our ability to conduct business and our results of operations. 20 Table of Contents Any increase in the manufacturing cost of our products could reduce our gross margins and operating profit. The semiconductor business exhibits ongoing competitive pricing pressure from customers and competitors. Accordingly, any increase in the cost of our products, whether by adverse purchase price variances or adverse manufacturing cost variances, will reduce our gross margins and operating profit. For example, if we do not incorporate the partially fabricated wafers held for us by our suppliers into our products in a timely fashion, we may still become obligated to purchase these materials, which may reduce our gross margins. We do not have many long-term supply agreements with our manufacturing suppliers and, consequently, we may not be able to obtain price reductions or anticipate or prevent future price increases from our suppliers. We outsource our wafer fabrication, testing, packaging, warehousing and shipping operations to third parties, and rely on these parties to produce and deliver our products according to requested demands in specification, quantity, cost and time. We rely on third parties for substantially all of our manufacturing operations, including wafer fabrication, wafer probe, wafer thinning, assembly, final test, warehousing and shipping. We depend on these parties to supply us with material of a requested quantity in a timely manner that meets our standards for yield, cost and manufacturing quality. Any problems with our manufacturing supply chain could adversely impact our ability to ship our products to our customers on time and in the quantity required, which in turn could cause an unanticipated decline in our sales and possibly damage our customer relationships. Our products are manufactured at a limited number of locations. If we experience manufacturing problems at a particular location, we would be required to transfer manufacturing to a backup supplier. Converting or transferring manufacturing from a primary supplier to a backup fabrication facility could be expensive and could take as long as six to 12 months. During such a transition, we would be required to meet customer demand from our then-existing inventory, as well as any partially finished goods that can be modified to the required product specifications. We do not seek to maintain sufficient inventory to address a lengthy transition period because we believe it is uneconomical to keep more than minimal inventory on hand. As a result, we may not be able to meet customer needs during such a transition, which could delay shipments, cause a production delay or stoppage for our customers, result in a decline in our sales and damage our customer relationships. In addition, a significant portion of our sales is to customers that practice just-in-time order management from their suppliers, which gives us a very limited amount of time in which to process and complete these orders. As a result, delays in our production or shipping by the parties to whom we outsource these functions could reduce our sales, damage our customer relationships and damage our reputation in the marketplace, any of which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. The loss of any of our key personnel could seriously harm our business, and our failure to attract or retain specialized technical and management talent could impair our ability to grow our business. The loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could seriously harm our business. In particular, our ability to define and design new products, gain new customers and grow our business depends on the continued contributions of Richard K. Williams, our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Technical Officer, as well as our senior level sales, operations, technology and engineering personnel. Our future growth will also depend significantly on our ability to recruit and retain qualified and talented managers and engineers, along with key manufacturing, quality, sales and marketing staff members. There remains intense competition for these individuals in our industry, especially those with power and analog semiconductor design and applications expertise. We cannot assure you we will be successful in finding, hiring and retaining these individuals. If we are unable to recruit and retain such talent, our product and technology development, manufacturing, marketing and sales efforts could be impaired. 21 Table of Contents We compete against companies with substantially greater financial and other resources, and our market share or gross margins may be reduced if we are unable to respond to competitive challenges effectively. The analog, mixed-signal, or analog with digital, and power management semiconductor industry in which we operate is highly competitive and dynamic, and we expect it to remain so. Our ability to compete effectively depends on defining, designing and regularly introducing new products that meet or anticipate the power management needs of our customers’ next-generation products and applications. We compete with numerous domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have greater financial and other resources with which to pursue marketing, technology development, product design, manufacturing, quality, sales and distribution of their products. We consider our primary competitors to be Maxim Integrated Products, Inc., Linear Technology Corporation, Texas Instruments Incorporated, Semtech Corporation and National Semiconductor Corporation. We expect continued competition from existing suppliers as well as from new entrants into the power management semiconductor market. Our ability to compete depends on a number of factors, including: • our success in identifying new and emerging markets, applications and technologies, and developing power management solutions for these markets; • our products’ performance and cost effectiveness relative to that of our competitors’ products; • our ability to deliver products in large volume on a timely basis at a competitive price; • our success in utilizing new and proprietary technologies to offer products and features previously not available in the marketplace; • our ability to recruit application engineers and designers; and • our ability to protect our intellectual property. We cannot assure you that our products will compete favorably or that we will be successful in the face of increasing competition from new products and enhancements introduced by our existing competitors or new companies entering this market. Assertions by third parties of infringement by us of their intellectual property rights could result in significant costs and cause our operating results to suffer. The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights and positions, which has resulted in protracted and expensive litigation for many companies. We have in the past received, and expect that in the future we may receive, communications from various industry participants alleging our infringement of their patents, trade secrets or other intellectual property rights. Any lawsuits resulting from such allegations could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidate our proprietary rights. Any potential intellectual property litigation also could force us to do one or more of the following: • stop selling products or using technology that contain the allegedly infringing intellectual property; • incur significant legal expenses; • pay damages to the party claiming infringement; • redesign those products that contain the allegedly infringing intellectual property; and • attempt to obtain a license to the relevant intellectual property from third parties, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. We initiated a lawsuit against Linear Technology Corporation in February 2006 for unfair business practices, interference with existing and prospective customers and trade libel, as well as a declaration of patent 22 Table of Contents invalidity and non-infringement. In this case, we are seeking to prevent Linear Technology from continuing a marketing campaign designed to disrupt our business relationships and sales by suggesting to our customers that our products infringe several U.S. patents owned by Linear Technology. As we informed Linear Technology in 2003 and 2004, and as discussed in our prior public filings, we believe that none of our products infringe the patents in question. However, whether or not we prevail in this lawsuit, we expect to incur significant legal expenses related to this case. If we are unsuccessful in this case, our business and our ability to compete in foreign markets could be harmed, and we could be enjoined from selling the accused products in the United States, either directly or indirectly, which could have a material adverse impact on our revenues, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In February 2006, in a related action, Linear Technology petitioned the United States International Trade Commission (USITC) requesting that the USITC initiate an examination to determine if certain of our products infringe certain patents owned by Linear Technology under Section 337 of the Tariff Act. The patents involved in this action are a subset of the patents involved in the lawsuit that we filed against Linear Technology. The accused products include charge pumps and switching regulators and are similar to the products involved in our lawsuit with Linear Technology. As with any litigated matter, we expect to incur expenses defending this action. Because the subject matter of this action is similar to the subject matter involved in our lawsuit with Linear Technology, we expect the costs associated with these two matters to be substantially less than the costs that would typically result from two unrelated matters. If we are unsuccessful in this case, our business and our ability to compete in foreign markets could be harmed, and we could be enjoined from selling the accused products in the United States, either directly or indirectly, which could have a material adverse impact on our revenues, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We also are currently involved in a lawsuit initiated by Siliconix incorporated in which Siliconix has alleged that certain of our TrenchDMOS products infringe three patents held by Siliconix, and we have already incurred significant legal expenses related to our defense. In October 2005, two separate lawsuits filed by Siliconix against Denso Corporation and Matsushita Electrical Industrial Co. Ltd. were consolidated with the case against us. As a result, an earlier stay of the Siliconix case against us has been lifted. Unless the lawsuit is settled earlier, we expect to go to trial no earlier than the second quarter of 2007. Although we do not believe that our TrenchDMOS products infringe the Siliconix patents at issue, if these products are found by a court to infringe, then we would be unable to continue to sell these products in the United States. Sales of our products in the Unites States that Siliconix claims infringe its U.S. patents are minimal, and sales of all of our TrenchDMOS products worldwide represented less than 1% of our revenues in 2005. As a result, we believe that any decision in this case, even if favorable to Siliconix, is unlikely to have a material adverse impact on our revenues, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. However, any significant impairment of our intellectual property rights from any litigation we face could harm our business and our ability to compete. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights adequately could impair our ability to compete effectively or to defend ourselves from litigation, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements, to protect our proprietary technologies and know-how. While we have 23 issued patents and four allowed patents in the United States and eight issued patents internationally as of December 31, 2005 and have an additional 74 patent applications pending in the United States and internationally, the rights granted to us may not be meaningful or provide us with any commercial advantage. For example, these patents could be challenged or circumvented by our competitors or be declared invalid or unenforceable in judicial or administrative proceedings. The failure of our patents to adequately protect our technology might make it easier for our competitors to offer similar products or technologies. Our foreign patent protection is generally not as comprehensive as our U.S. patent protection and may not protect our intellectual property in some countries where our products are sold or may be sold in the future. Even if foreign patents are granted, effective enforcement in foreign countries may not be available. Many U.S.-based companies have encountered substantial intellectual property infringement in foreign countries, including countries where we sell products. 23 Table of Contents Monitoring unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and costly. It is possible that unauthorized use of our intellectual property may occur without our knowledge. We cannot assure you that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our intellectual property. Our failure to effectively protect our intellectual property could reduce the value of our technology in licensing arrangements or in cross-licensing negotiations, and could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may in the future need to initiate infringement claims or litigation. Litigation, whether we are a plaintiff or a defendant, can be expensive, time-consuming and may divert the efforts of our technical staff and managerial personnel, which could harm our business, whether or not such litigation results in a determination favorable to us. We do not expect to sustain our recent growth rate, and we may not be able to manage any future growth effectively. We have experienced significant growth in a short period of time. Our revenues have increased from approximately $1.0 million in 2001 to $68.3 million in 2005. We do not expect to achieve similar growth rates in future periods. You should not rely on our operating results for any prior quarterly or annual periods as an indication of our future operating performance. If we are unable to maintain adequate revenue growth, our financial results could suffer and our stock price could decline. We have also grown from 110 employees on January 1, 2004 to 200 employees on December 31, 2005, with many located in regional and international offices. Our international growth may subject us to income and transaction taxes in the United States and in multiple foreign locations. Our future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in our U.S. and foreign tax estimates and liabilities, or changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws. If additional taxes are assessed against us, our operating results or financial condition could be materially affected. Our expansion has placed a significant strain on our management, personnel, systems and resources. Any future expansion is likely to result in additional strain on our managerial infrastructure. To manage our growth successfully and handle the responsibilities of being a public company, we believe we must effectively: • recruit, hire, train and manage additional qualified engineers for our research and development activities, especially in the positions of design engineering, product and test engineering, and applications engineering; • continue to implement and improve adequate administrative, financial and operational systems, procedures and controls; and • enhance our information technology support for enterprise resource planning and design engineering by adapting and expanding our systems and tool capabilities, and properly training new hires as to their use. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities or develop new products, our introduction of derivative products may be delayed and we may fail to satisfy customer requirements, maintain product quality, execute our business plan or respond to competitive pressures. Any acquisitions we make could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition. In the future, we may choose to acquire companies that are complementary to our business, including for the purpose of expanding our new product design capacity, introducing new design, market or application skills or enhancing and expanding our existing product lines. In connection with any such future acquisitions, we may need to use a significant portion of our available cash, issue additional equity securities which would dilute current stockholders’ percentage ownership and incur substantial debt or contingent liabilities. Such actions could adversely impact our operating results and the market price of our common stock. In addition, difficulties in assimilating any acquired workforce, merging operations or avoiding unplanned attrition could disrupt or harm our business. 24 Table of Contents The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry, which has historically demonstrated significant and prolonged downturns, could impact our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. The semiconductor industry has historically exhibited cyclical behavior which at various times has included significant downturns in customer demand. These conditions have caused significant variations in product orders and production capacity utilization, as well as price erosion. Because a significant portion of our expenses is fixed in the near term or is incurred in advance of anticipated sales, we may not be able to decrease our expenses rapidly enough to offset any unanticipated shortfall in revenues. If this situation were to occur, it could adversely affect our operating results, cash flow and financial condition. Our business may be adversely impacted if our end customers cannot obtain sufficient supplies of other components in their products to meet their production projections and target quantities. Our power management products are used by our customers in conjunction with a number of other components such as digital integrated circuits, baseband processors, microcontrollers and digital signal processors. If for any reason our customers incur a shortage of any component, their ability to produce the forecasted quantity of their end product or model may be adversely affected and our product sales would decline until such shortage is remedied. Such a situation could harm our operating results, cash flow and financial condition. We, our manufacturing suppliers and our end customers operate facilities located in regions subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters. Our corporate headquarters in Sunnyvale, California, our operations office in Chupei, Taiwan, and the production facilities of one of our wafer fabrication suppliers and several of our assembly and test suppliers in Hsinchu and across Taiwan are located near seismically active regions and are subject to periodic earthquakes. We do not maintain earthquake insurance and our business could be damaged in the event of a major earthquake or other natural disaster. In addition to risks in our operations from natural disasters, our customers are also subject to these risks. Any disaster impacting our customers could result in loss of orders, delay of business and temporary regional economic recessions. For example, we believe that our second quarter 2003 results of operations were significantly harmed by the SARS epidemic experienced in Asia during that time, which reduced demand for our products by our customers in Asia. The occurrence of any of these or other disasters could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. A failure of our information systems would adversely impact our ability to process orders for and manufacture products. We operate a multinational business enterprise with manufacturing, administration and sales groups located in Asia, Europe and the United States. These disparate groups are connected by a virtual private network-based enterprise resource planning system, where daily manufacturing operations and order entry functions rely on maintaining a reliable network among locations. Any failure of our computer network or our enterprise resource planning system would impede our ability to schedule orders, monitor production work in process and ship and bill our finished goods to our customers. A failure to maintain our international structure may adversely affect our tax rate, financial condition and operating results. During 2005, we realigned certain areas of our operations in connection with the implementation of an international structure. This realignment required us to transfer certain functions previously handled in our Sunnyvale, California headquarters to offices in foreign jurisdictions, primarily Macau. If we fail to maintain our realigned operations, our operating results may be adversely affected. Additionally, our international structure 25 Table of Contents results in an increased volume of transactions and accounting for those transactions may require us to increase our headcount either domestically or internationally. A failure to process those transactions in an accurate and timely manner could be indicative of a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting. Our international structure requires that we understand complex tax laws and regulations in various domestic and international jurisdictions. If we are unable to comply with domestic and international tax laws, our tax rate and our financial condition may be adversely impacted. Further, the domestic and international tax laws governing our structure are subject to change, which could adversely affect our operations and financial results. The requirement that we expense employee stock options will significantly reduce our net income in future periods. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (Revised 2004), Share-Based Payment, or SFAS 123R, which requires the measurement of all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, using a fair-value-based method and the recording of such expense in our consolidated statements of operations. The accounting provisions of SFAS 123R became effective for our quarter beginning January 1, 2006. The pro forma disclosures previously permitted under SFAS 123 are no longer an alternative to financial statement recognition. As a result of adopting SFAS 123R, we will now have additional stock compensation expense associated with grants after April 4, 2005, the date of our initial filing of our registration statement in connection with our initial public offering, based on the grant date fair value. The ultimate amount of future stock compensation expense will depend upon the number of grants, the estimated grant date fair value, which depends upon significant assumptions including stock volatility and estimated term, the assumed forfeiture rate and the requisite service period for future grants. This expense will exceed the expense we currently record for our stock-based compensation plans and correspondingly reduce our reported net income in future periods. We have incurred and will continue to incur increased costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Nasdaq National Market, have imposed various new requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. We expect these rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. Because we have only recently become a public company and have a limited history with these types of expenses, we may not accurately estimate these expenses in our financial planning. In addition, our current and future financial results may be more difficult to compare to prior periods when we did not incur these types of expenses. Compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 is uncertain, and if we fail to comply with these standards in a timely manner, our business could be harmed and our stock price could decline. We will be required to comply with the rules promulgated under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by December 31, 2006. We expect to incur additional expense as we implement policies and procedures and take other steps to comply with these rules, which require management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls. In addition, the Nasdaq National Market, on which our common stock is listed, has adopted comprehensive rules and regulations relating to corporate governance. These laws, rules and regulations have increased and will continue to increase the scope, complexity and cost of our corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. Our efforts to comply with such laws, rules and regulations require a significant amount of management time and are costly. If we fail to comply in a timely manner with the requirements of Section 404 or other requirements, public perception of our internal controls could be damaged, causing our financial results to suffer and our stock price to decline. 26 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 