Item 1A Risk Factors 19 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 37 Item 2 Properties 37 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 38 Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 38 Executive Officers of the Registrant 38 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 40 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 43 Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 44 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 57 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 58 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 81 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 81 Item 9B Other Information 81 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 81 Item 11 Executive Compensation 81 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 82 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 82 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 82 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule 82 SIGNATURES 89 CERTIFICATIONS 93 Subsidiaries Consent of Ernst & Young LLP Powers of Attorney Certification of CEO Certification of CFO Section 1350 Certification of CEO Section 1350 Certification of CFO Table of Contents PART I CAUTIONARY NOTICE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are not statements of historical fact should be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the “Act”). In addition, certain statements in our future filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in press releases, and in oral and written statements made by us or with our approval that are not statements of historical fact constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Act. Examples of forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding: proposed new programs; regulatory developments; projections, predictions, expectations, estimates or forecasts as to our business, financial and operational results and future economic performance; and statements of management’s goals and objectives and other similar expressions concerning matters that are not historical facts. Words such as “may,” “should,” “could,” “would,” “predicts,” “potential,” “continue,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “future,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “estimates” and similar expressions, as well as statements in future tense, are intended to identify forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those in such statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from those discussed in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those described in “Item 1A — Risk Factors,” below. The performance of our business and our securities may be adversely affected by these factors and by other factors common to other businesses and investments, or to the general economy. Forward-looking statements are qualified by some or all of these risk factors. Therefore, you should consider these risk factors with caution and form your own critical and independent conclusions about the likely effect of these risk factors on our future performance. Such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which statements are made, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events or circumstances. Readers should carefully review the disclosures and the risk factors described in this and other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K to be filed by the Company in fiscal 2007. Item 1. Business Overview We are an exclusively online post-secondary education services company. Through our wholly-owned subsidiary, Capella University, we offer a variety of doctoral, master’s and bachelor’s programs in the following markets: health and human services, business management and technology, and education. Our academic offerings combine competency-based curricula with the convenience and flexibility of an online learning format. We design our offerings to help working adult learners develop specific competencies that they can employ in their workplace. We actively support and engage with our learners throughout their programs to enhance their prospects for successful program completion. We believe that the relevance and convenience of our programs provide a quality educational experience for our learners. At December 31, 2006, we offered over 760 online courses and 13 academic programs with 75 specializations to approximately 18,000 learners. In 2006, our end-of-year enrollment and revenues grew by approximately 23% and 21%, respectively, as compared to 2005. To date, our growth has resulted from a combination of: increased demand for our programs; expansion of our program and degree offerings; our ability to obtain specialized accreditations, licensures and endorsements for certain programs we offer; establishment of relationships with large corporate employers, the U.S. Armed Forces and other colleges and universities; and a growing acceptance of online education. We seek to achieve growth in a manner that assures continued improvement in educational quality and learner success while maintaining compliance with regulatory standards. Additionally, we seek to enhance our operational and financial performance by tracking and analyzing quantifiable metrics that provide insight as to the effectiveness of our business and educational processes. Our exclusively online focus facilitates our ability to track a variety of metrics. 1 Table of Contents Our History We were founded in 1991 as a Minnesota corporation. In 1993, we established our wholly-owned university subsidiary, then named The Graduate School of America, to offer doctoral and master’s degrees through distance learning programs in management, education, human services and interdisciplinary studies. In 1995, we launched our online format for delivery of our doctoral and master’s degree programs over the Internet. Through our early entry into online education, we believe we have gained extensive experience in the delivery of effective online programs. In 1997, our university subsidiary received accreditation from the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools (later renamed The Higher Learning Commission of the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools). In 1998, we began the expansion of our original portfolio of academic programs by introducing doctoral and master’s degrees in psychology and a master of business administration degree. In 1999, to expand the reach of our brand in anticipation of moving into the bachelor’s degree market, we changed our name to Capella Education Company and the name of our university to Capella University. In 2000, we introduced our bachelor’s degree completion program in information technology, which provided instruction for the last two years of a four-year bachelor’s degree. In 2004, we expanded our addressable market through the introduction of our four-year bachelor’s degree programs in business administration and information technology as well as the introduction of three master’s level specializations in education targeted at K-12 teachers. In 2005, we introduced two master’s level specializations in education targeted to higher education and K-12 teachers as well as a master’s in business administration specialization in accounting. In 2006, we introduced eight specializations including healthcare management, accounting and information assurance and security. Additionally, in November 2006, we completed an initial public offering of our common stock. We are planning to introduce three new programs and seven new specializations in the first quarter of 2007. Industry The U.S. market for post-secondary education is a large, growing market. Based on 2005 Integrated Post-Secondary Education Data System (IPEDS) data from the U.S. Department of Education, National Center for Education Statistics (NCES), revenue for post-secondary degree-granting educational institutions exceeded $305 billion in academic year 2004. This represents a compound annual growth rate of 3.7% from the 2000 academic year. According to a 2006 publication by the NCES, the number of post-secondary students enrolled as of the Fall of 2004 was 17.3 million and is expected to grow to 18.8 million in 2010. We believe the forecasted growth in post-secondary enrollment is a result of a number of factors, including the expected increase in annual high school graduates from 2.9 million in 2002 to 3.3 million in 2010 (based on estimates published by the NCES in 2005), the significant and measurable personal income premium that is attributable to post-secondary education, and an increase in demand by employers for professional and skilled workers. According to the U.S. Census Bureau’s October 26, 2006 report, 64% of adults (persons 25 years of age or older) did not possess a post-secondary degree. Of the 17.3 million post-secondary students enrolled as of the Fall of 2004, the NCES estimated that 6.8 million were adults, representing 39% of total enrollment. We expect that adults will continue to represent a large, growing segment of the post-secondary education market as they seek additional education to secure better jobs, or to remain competitive or advance in their current careers. According to Eduventures, an education consulting and research firm, many traditional, non-profit post-secondary education providers have had difficulty meeting the increasing demand for post-secondary education as a result of, among other factors, a lack of funding and physical constraints on their ability to admit additional students. Alternatively, many for-profit institutions have been designed to meet this growing demand and are becoming an increasingly popular alternative for working adults. We believe that the focus of for-profit institutions on education related to specific labor markets and on strong customer service has made them an increasingly popular alternative for working adults seeking additional education. According to reports published by Eduventures (in 2004), the revenue growth rate in fully-online education exceeded the revenue growth rate in the for-profit segment of the post-secondary market from 2001 2 Table of Contents to 2006. We believe that the higher growth in demand for fully-online education is largely attributable to the flexibility and convenience of this instructional format, as well as the growing recognition of its educational efficacy. Additionally, in 2006, Eduventures projected that the number of students enrolled in fully-online programs at Title IV-eligible, degree-granting institutions would grow by approximately 24% in 2006 to reach approximately 1.5 million as of December 31, 2006, and would grow to approximately 2.1 million by December 31, 2008. Eduventures also projected that annual revenues generated from students enrolled in fully-online programs at Title IV-eligible, degree-granting institutions would increase by more than 30% in 2006 to reach more than $8.1 billion in that year. Competition The post-secondary education market is highly fragmented and competitive, with no private or public institution enjoying a significant market share. We compete primarily with public and private degree-granting regionally accredited colleges and universities. Our competitors include both traditional colleges and universities, as well as a number of for-profit institutions offering online programs. Many of these colleges and universities enroll working adults in addition to traditional 18 to 24 year-old students. In addition, many of those colleges and universities offer a variety of distance education initiatives. There are currently nine other public companies operating in the post-secondary education market in which we operate. We believe that the competitive factors in the post-secondary education market include the following: • relevant, practical and accredited program offerings; • regulatory approvals; • reputation of the college or university and marketability of the degree; • convenient, flexible and dependable access to programs and classes; • qualified and experienced faculty; • level of learner support; • cost of the program; • relative marketing and selling effectiveness; and • the time necessary to earn a degree. Our Competitive Strengths We believe we have the following competitive strengths: Commitment to Academic Quality. We are committed to providing our learners with a rewarding and challenging academic experience. Our commitment to academic quality is a tenet of our culture, and we believe that quality is an important consideration to those learners who choose Capella University. Having originated as an institution exclusively focused on graduate degree education, we have historically promoted an educational experience based on high academic standards. We have continued to apply this approach as we have expanded our graduate and undergraduate programs. Today, we believe that our commitment to academic quality is reflected in our curricula, faculty, learner support services and academic oversight process. The impact of this commitment is evident in the satisfaction of our learners both during their educational experience and following graduation. Exclusive Focus on Online Education. In contrast to institutions converting traditional, classroom-based educational offerings to an online format, our academic programs have been designed solely for online delivery. Our curriculum design offers flexibility while promoting a high level of interaction with other learners and faculty members. Our faculty are specifically trained to deliver online education, and our learner support infrastructure was developed to track learner progress and performance to meet the needs of online learners. As a result of our exclusive focus on online education, we believe we have developed educational programs that meet the needs of our learners in a convenient and effective manner. 3 Table of Contents Academic Programs and Specializations Designed for Working Adults. We currently offer 13 academic programs with 75 specializations, each designed to appeal to and meet the educational objectives of working adults. The diversity of our program portfolio allows us to target relevant portions of the adult learner population and provide offerings in several of the highest demand areas of study, such as business and education. Our specializations are designed to attract learners by providing depth within a program that is typically unavailable in an unspecialized program and by addressing specific competencies that learners can apply in their current workplace. Extensive Learner Support Services. We provide extensive learner support services, both online and telephonically. Our support services include: academic services, such as advising, writing and research services; administrative services, such as online class registration and transcript requests; library services; financial aid counseling; and career counseling services. We believe our commitment to providing high quality, responsive and convenient learner support services encourages course and degree completion and contributes to our high learner satisfaction. Experienced Management Team with Significant Business, Academic and Marketing Expertise. Our management team possesses extensive experience in business, academic and marketing management as well as public company experience, in many cases with organizations of much larger scale and operational diversity than our organization. Our management team is led by Stephen G. Shank, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, who founded our company in 1991, and who possesses over 12 years of experience serving as the Chief Executive Officer of a public company. Our President and Chief Operating Officer, Kenneth J. Sobaski, has over 17 years of public company experience in senior sales, marketing and general management positions. Dr. Michael J. Offerman, who has 24 years of academic management experience, serves as President of Capella University and oversees all of our academic activities. Lois M. Martin, our Chief Financial Officer, serves on two public company boards of directors and has held senior financial management positions in public companies for over nine years. We integrate our management through cross-functional teams to ensure that business objectives are met while continuing to deliver academic quality. Our Operating Strategy We intend to pursue the following operating strategies using cash on hand and future cash flows from operations: Focus on Markets and Learners. We believe that significant growth potential exists within each of the three markets that comprise our existing portfolio of academic programs and degree offerings. Within our specified markets, we will continue to develop our existing bachelor’s, master’s and doctoral program offerings while selectively adding new programs and specializations in disciplines that we believe offer significant market potential and in which we believe we can deliver a high quality learning experience. In particular, we intend to emphasize growth in targeted specializations in our master’s and doctoral programs for which we believe there is significant demand. Examples include our recently launched master’s and doctoral specializations targeting K-12 education, community college and healthcare management professionals within our education and health and human services market verticals. Building Capella Brand Differentiation. We will continue to focus on enhancing our brand differentiation as a quality, exclusively online university for working adults within our specified markets through a variety of integrated online and offline advertising and direct media. We seek to appeal to prospective learners who aspire to obtain a quality post-secondary education, but for whom a traditional, classroom-based educational experience is impractical. Additionally, we seek to differentiate our brand from those of other educational providers by communicating our ability to deliver high quality educational programs in targeted specializations within each learner’s chosen discipline. In order to optimize our marketing investment, we regularly perform market tests, analyze the results and refine our marketing approach based on the findings. We believe increased brand differentiation and awareness will contribute to continued enrollment growth in our existing and future program offerings. Increasing Enrollment Effectiveness. We believe that it is important to focus on total enrollment effectiveness from new enrollment through graduation. We have invested substantial resources in performing 4 Table of Contents detailed market research that enables us to more effectively segment our target market and identify potential learners best suited for our educational experience. As a result, we will continue to target our marketing and recruiting expenditures towards segments of the market that we believe are more likely to result in us enrolling learners who will complete their programs, and we intend to increase expenditures targeted at these segments. Simultaneously, we continue to increase our enrollment effectiveness through improved enrollment tools and processes to better manage the pipeline of potential applicants and to help direct the communication and contact plans with our current learners. Delivering Both Superior Learning Outcomes and a Superior Learner Experience. We are committed to helping our learners reach their educational and professional goals. This commitment guides the development of our curricula, the recruitment and training of our faculty and staff, and the design of our support services. We use the results of this assessment to develop an understanding of the specific needs and readiness of each individual learner at the start of a program. Through the use of competency-based curricula and measurement of course and program outcomes, we will continue to look for opportunities to improve our learners’ educational experience and increase the likelihood of learners successfully completing degree programs. We believe our focus on learner success complements our brand strategy and will continue to enhance learner satisfaction, leading to higher levels of engagement, retention and referrals. Capella University Capella University is a post-secondary educational institution accredited by The Higher Learning Commission of the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools, one of six regional institutional accrediting associations in the United States, and is authorized to grant degrees by the State of Minnesota. Our Approach to Academic Quality Some of the critical elements of our university that we believe promote a high level of academic quality include: Curricula. We design the curricula for our programs around professional competencies desired for high performance in each field. The particular competencies are identified and validated through a variety of external sources and reviews. There are specific learning outcomes for each course as well as for the overall program, and we assess the learner’s achievement of the expected learning outcomes during his or her period of enrollment. Faculty. We select our faculty based on their academic credentials and teaching and practitioner experience. Our faculty members tend to be scholars as well as practitioners, and they bring relevant, practical experience from their professional careers into the courses they teach. Approximately 80% of our faculty members hold a doctoral degree in their respective fields. We invest in the professional development of our faculty members through training in online teaching techniques as well as events and discussions designed to foster sharing of best practices and a commitment to academic quality. Online Course Design. We employ a comprehensive design framework to ensure that our online courses offer a consistent learning experience, high quality interaction, and the tools required for assessing learning outcomes. We regularly assess course outcomes data as well as learner assessments to identify opportunities for course upgrades. We operate Blackboard Learning System, formerly known as WebCT Vista, as our courseroom platform. Blackboard Learning System provides discussion, testing and grading capabilities for our online courseroom. Learner Support. We establish teams comprised of both academic and administrative personnel that are assigned to serve as the primary support contact point for each of our learners throughout the duration of their studies. Most of our support services, including academic, administrative, library and career counseling services are accessible online, allowing users to access these services at a time and in a manner that is convenient to them. We believe that a committed support network is as important to maintaining learner motivation and commitment as the knowledge and engagement of our faculty. 5 Table of Contents Academic Oversight. Our academic management organization is structured to provide leadership and continuity across our academic offerings. In addition to regular reviews by accrediting bodies, our academic management team oversees periodic examinations of our curricula by internal and external reviewers. Internal reviews are performed by our assessment and institutional research team to assess academic content, delivery method and learning outcomes for each program. Our internal academic oversight process is further strengthened by our ability to track and analyze data and metrics related to learner performance and satisfaction. External reviews are performed by individuals with professional certifications in their fields to provide additional evaluation and verification of program quality and workplace applicability. Accreditation. In addition to being accredited by The Higher Learning Commission of the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools, we also pursue specialized accreditation, where appropriate, such as our accreditation from the American Counseling Association’s Council for the Accreditation of Counseling and Related Educational Programs (CACREP) for our mental health counseling and marital, couple, and family counseling/therapy specializations within our master’s in human services program. Our commitment to maintaining regional accreditation, and specialized accreditation where appropriate, reflects our goal to provide our learners with an academic experience commensurate with that of traditional post-secondary educational institutions. In addition to these traditional components of academic quality, our approach to teaching and the online format of our programs offers several features that enrich the learning experience: Low student to faculty ratio. Our courses average between 15 and 20 learners, providing each learner the opportunity to interact directly with our faculty and to receive individualized feedback and attention. We believe this adds to the academic quality of our programs by ensuring that each learner is encouraged to participate actively, thus enabling the instructor to better evaluate the learner’s understanding of course material. Diverse learner population. Our online format allows us to focus on adult learners as well as to attract a diverse population of learners with a variety of professional backgrounds and life experiences. Practitioner-oriented course experience. Our courses are designed to encourage our learners to incorporate workplace issues or projects into their studies, providing relevant context to many of the academic theories covered by our curricula. Time efficiency. While many campus-based students are required to spend time commuting, parking, or otherwise navigating a large campus, our online learning format enables our learners to focus their time on course assignments and discussions. Residential colloquia experience. Our residential colloquia allow doctoral learners to engage in face-to-face interaction with other learners and faculty, which provides for a rich learning experience with relevant content. Curricula Our program offerings cover three markets: health and human services, business management and technology, and education. Within these markets, we offer 13 academic programs with 75 specializations as follows: Programs Specialization Programs Specialization Doctor of Philosophy in Organization and Management • General • Human Resource Management • Information Technology Management • Leadership Doctor of Psychology Doctor of Philosophy in Psychology • Clinical Psychology • Counseling Psychology • General Psychology • Industrial/Organizational Psychology • Educational Psychology 6 Table of Contents Programs Specialization Programs Specialization Master of Science in Organization and Management Master of Business Administration • General • Human Resource Management • Leadership • General Business • Accounting • Finance • Health Care Management • Information Technology Management • Marketing • Project Management Masters of Science in Psychology • Clinical Psychology • Counseling Psychology • School Psychology • General Psychology • Industrial/Organizational Psychology • Educational Psychology • Sport Psychology Bachelor of Science in Business • Accounting • Business Administration • Finance • Human Resource Management • Management and Leadership • Marketing Doctor of Philosophy in Human Services • General Human Services • Criminal Justice • Counseling Studies • Health Care Administration • Management of Non-Profit Agencies • Social and Community Services Doctor of Philosophy in Education • Leadership in Educational Administration • Leadership in Higher Education • Curriculum and Instruction • Post-Secondary and Adult Education • Instructional Design for Online Learning • Training and Performance Improvement • Professional Studies in Education • K-12 Studies in Education Masters of Science in Human Services • General Human Services • Criminal Justice • Counseling Studies • Health Care Administration • Management of Non-Profit Agencies • Marital, Couple, and Family Counseling/Therapy • Mental Health Counseling • Social and Community Services Master of Science in Education • Leadership in Educational Administration • Leadership in Higher Education • Curriculum and Instruction • Post-Secondary and Adult Education • Instructional Design for Online Learning • Training and Performance Improvement • Professional Studies in Education • K-12 Studies in Education • Reading and Literacy • Enrollment Management Masters of Science in Information Technology Bachelor of Science in Information Technology • General Information Technology • Information Security • Network Architecture and Design • Project Management and Leadership • System Design and Programming • General Information Technology • Graphics and Multimedia • Information Assurance and Security • Network Technology • Project Management • Web Application Development Courses are offered on a quarterly academic schedule, which generally coincides with calendar quarters. We offer new learners the flexibility to begin their introductory first course in their program of study on the first day of classes in any month. Learners then enroll in subsequent courses on a regular quarterly course schedule. Depending on the program, learners generally enroll in one to two courses per quarter. Each course has a designated start date, and the majority of our courses last for ten weeks. 7 Table of Contents The only exception to our exclusively online format is for doctoral learners, and for certain master’s degree candidates pursuing professional licenses. These learners participate in periodic residential colloquia, supervised practicum and internships as a complement to their courses. The colloquia typically last one week and are required, on average, once per year for learners in applicable programs, while the supervised practicum and internships vary in length based on the program in which the learner is enrolled. We also offer certificate programs, which consist of a series of courses focused on a particular area of study, for learners who seek to enhance their skills and knowledge. Online certificate courses can be taken as part of a graduate degree program or on a standalone basis. Certificate programs generally consist of four courses. The duration of our certificate programs ranges from two quarters to approximately two years. Faculty We seek to hire faculty who have teaching or practitioner experience in their particular discipline and who possess significant academic credentials. Approximately 80% of our faculty members have a doctoral degree. We provide significant training to new faculty members, including a seven-week online development program focused on effective online teaching methods and our online platform, prior to offering them a teaching assignment. In addition, we provide professional development and training for all faculty members on an ongoing basis. To evaluate the performance of our faculty members, we periodically monitor courseroom activity and assess learner performance against course outcomes. Our faculty consists of full-time academic administrators, faculty chairs and core faculty as well as adjunct faculty. Our full-time academic administrators’ primary responsibilities are to monitor the quality and relevance of our curricula, to recruit and manage teaching faculty and to ensure that we maintain standards of accreditation. Our full-time faculty chairs supervise the faculty in their respective specializations. Our full-time core faculty teach courses in their assigned specializations and serve as mentors to, and on dissertation committees for, our doctoral learners. Our adjunct faculty typically teach one to three courses per quarter in their specializations. Of our 904 faculty members as of December 31, 2006, 130 were full-time employees and the remainder were adjunct faculty. In certain cases, we have agreements with other post-secondary educational institutions to provide faculty for certain courses. Learner Support Services The learner support services we provide include: Academic Services. We provide learners with a variety of services designed to support their academic studies. These services include new learner orientation, technical support, academic advising, research services (particularly for doctoral degree candidates), writing services and other online tutoring. We also provide appropriate educational accommodations to learners with documented disabilities through our disability support services team. Administrative Services. We provide learners with the ability to access a variety of administrative services both telephonically and via the Internet. For example, learners can register for classes, apply for financial aid, pay their tuition and access their transcripts online. We believe this online accessibility provides the convenience and self-service capabilities that our learners value. Our financial aid counselors provide personalized online and telephonic support to our learners. Library Services. We provide learners with online access to the Capella University Library. Our library provides learners with access to a comprehensive collection of online journals, eBooks and interlibrary loan services through the University of Michigan. Our team of librarians is available via e-mail and phone to help with research, teaching and learning. They offer tutorials, virtual instruction sessions, consultations on research assignments and online research guides. Librarians also attend our residential colloquia to teach library instruction sessions and offer one-on-one research appointments. Career Counseling Services. Our staff of professional career counselors use a variety of tools, including individualized phone, e-mail and face-to-face communications, online newsletters, online seminars and conference calls to provide career planning services to learners and alumni. Our counselors also assist our 8 Table of Contents recruitment staff with prospective learners’ selection of the Capella University program and specialization that best suits their professional aspirations. Admissions Capella University’s admission process is designed to offer access to prospective learners who seek the benefits of a post-secondary education while providing realistic feedback to prospects regarding their ability to successfully complete their chosen program. As part of the first course in their program of study, admitted learners are required to complete an orientation to online education and a skills assessment, the results of which enable us to develop an understanding of the specific needs and readiness of each individual learner. Learners must successfully complete the first course in their program of study to continue their education. Learners enrolling in our bachelor’s programs must have a high school diploma or a GED and demonstrate competence in writing and logical reasoning during the first course of their program of study. Learners enrolling in our graduate programs must have the requisite academic degree from an accredited institution and a specified minimum grade point average. In addition to our standard admission requirements, we require applicants to some of our programs to provide additional application material, information, and/or interview with, and be approved by, a faculty committee. Marketing We engage in a range of marketing activities to build the Capella brand, differentiate us from other educational providers, raise levels of awareness with prospective learners, generate inquiries about enrollment, remind and motivate existing learners to re-register each quarter, and stimulate referrals from existing learners. These marketing activities include Internet, print and direct mail advertising campaigns, participation in seminars and trade shows, and development of marketing channels through our corporate, U.S. Armed Forces, healthcare and educational relationships. Online advertising (targeted, direct and through aggregators) currently generates our largest volume of prospective learners. Our corporate, U.S. Armed Forces, healthcare and educational relationships and discount programs are developed and managed by our channel development teams. Our channel development teams work with representatives in the various organizations to help them understand the quality, impact and value that our academic programs can provide, both for the individuals in their organization and for the organization itself. Our corporate alliance programs offer education opportunities to employees of large companies and healthcare institutions with a tuition discount. We offer a tuition discount to all members of the U.S. Armed Forces, including active duty members, veterans, national guard members, reservists, civilian employees of the Department of Defense and immediate family members of active duty personnel. We also have arrangements with various educational institutions of the U.S. Armed Forces pursuant to which we have agreed to accept credits from certain military educational programs earned by learners who meet our transfer requirements, which they can apply toward a Capella University degree. We have also developed our educational alliance program to allow graduates of community colleges to matriculate into our programs and to recruit community college faculty to attend our graduate programs with a tuition discount. For the year ended December 31, 2006, approximately 35% of our learners received a discount in connection with one of our marketing relationships. Enrollment We offer different program start dates to new learners, occurring approximately once per month. As of the last day of classes in the quarter ended December 31, 2006, our enrollment was 17,976 learners. Of the learners that responded to our demographic survey, as of December 31, 2006, approximately 66% were female and approximately 39% were of color. Our learner population is geographically distributed throughout the United States. 9 Table of Contents The following is a summary of our learners as of the last day of classes in the quarter ended December 31, 2006: Enrollment Number of % Learners of Total Doctoral 7,473 41.6 % Master’s 7,685 42.7 % Bachelor’s 2,729 15.2 % Other 89 0.5 % 17,976 100.0 % Tuition and Fees Our tuition rates vary by type and length of program and by degree level, such as doctoral, master’s or bachelor’s. For all master’s and bachelor’s programs and for selected doctoral programs, tuition is determined by the number of courses taken by each learner. For the 2005-2006 academic year (the academic year that began in July 2005), prices per course generally ranged from $1,400 to $1,950. The price of the course will vary based upon the number of credit hours, the degree level of the program and the discipline. For the 2005-2006 academic year, the majority of doctoral programs were priced at a fixed quarterly amount of $3,975 per learner, regardless of the number of courses in which the learner was registered. In January 2006, we adjusted our fixed quarterly tuition rate for doctoral learners in their comprehensive exam or dissertation to $3,200. In addition, if a learner in a doctoral program with fixed quarterly tuition had paid for 16 quarters, completed all coursework except for their comprehensive exam or dissertation and met all colloquia requirements, the tuition rate was reduced to $500 per quarter. “Other” in the table above refers primarily to certificate-seeking learners. Certificate programs generally consist of four courses, and the price of a course depends on the number of credit hours, the degree level of the program and the discipline. For the 2005-2006 academic year, prices per course in certificate programs generally ranged from $1,400 to $1,925. Capella University implemented a tuition increase in 10 of our 13 programs generally ranging from 2% to 6% for the 2006-2007 academic year (the academic year that began in July 2006). The price increase resulted in prices per course generally ranging from $1,460 to $1,995 for master’s, bachelor’s and certificate programs. The majority of doctoral programs were priced at a fixed quarterly amount of $4,050 per learner, regardless of the number of courses in which the learner was registered. The fixed quarterly tuition for doctoral learners in their comprehensive exam or dissertation increased to $3,240. The reduced tuition rate for doctoral learners who have paid for 16 quarters, completed all coursework except for their comprehensive exam or dissertation and met all colloquia requirements increased from $500 to $810 per quarter. Employees and Adjunct Faculty As of December 31, 2006, we had a total of 904 faculty members, consisting of 130 full-time faculty and 774 part-time, adjunct faculty. Our adjunct faculty are engaged through independent contractor agreements. We engage our adjunct faculty on a course-by-course basis. Adjunct faculty are compensated a fixed amount per learner for a base number of learners and a variable rate per learner thereafter, which varies depending on discipline. In addition to teaching assignments, adjunct faculty may be asked to serve on learner committees, such as comprehensive examination and dissertation committees, or assist with course development. We have the right to cancel any teaching assignment due to low enrollment or to cancel sections to create proper class sizes. If a teaching assignment is canceled, we do not compensate the adjunct faculty member for the assignment. Our independent contractor agreements with adjunct faculty typically have a one-quarter term, but we are not required to engage them to teach any certain number of courses and have the right to terminate their services upon written notice at any time. As of December 31, 2006, we also employed 883 non-faculty staff in university services, academic advising and academic support, enrollment services, university administration, financial aid, information 10 Table of Contents technology, human resources, corporate accounting, finance and other administrative functions. None of our employees is a party to any collective bargaining or similar agreement with us. We consider our relationships with our employees to be satisfactory. Intellectual Property Intellectual property is important to our business. We rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secrets, domain names and agreements with third parties to protect our proprietary rights. In many instances, our course content is produced for us by faculty and other content experts under work for hire agreements pursuant to which we own the course content in return for a fixed development fee. In certain limited cases, we license course content from a third party on a royalty fee basis. We have trademark or service mark registrations and pending applications in the U.S. and select foreign jurisdictions for the words “CAPELLA,” “CAPELLA EDUCATION COMPANY,” and “CAPELLA UNIVERSITY” and distinctive logos, along with various other trademarks and service marks related to our specific offerings. We also own domain name rights to “www.capellaeducation.com”, “www.capella.edu” and “www.capellauniversity.edu”, as well as other words and phrases important to our business. Available Information The Company’s Internet address is www.capellaeducation.com. The Company makes available, free of charge through its website, its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, soon after they are electronically filed with the SEC. In addition, the Company’s earnings conference calls and presentations to the financial community are web cast live via the Company’s website. In addition to visiting the Company’s website, you may read and copy public reports the Company files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F. Street, NE, Washington DC 20549, or at www.sec.gov. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. REGULATION Regulatory Environment Learners attending Capella University finance their education through a combination of individual resources, private loans, corporate reimbursement programs and federal financial aid programs. Capella University participates in the federal student financial aid programs authorized under Title IV. In connection with a learner’s receipt of federal financial aid, we are subject to extensive regulation by the Department of Education, state education agencies and our accrediting agency, The Higher Learning Commission of the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools. Our business activities are planned and implemented to achieve compliance with the rules and regulations of the state, regional and federal agencies that regulate our activities. Accreditation Capella University has been institutionally accredited since 1997 by The Higher Learning Commission of the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools, a regional accrediting agency recognized by the Secretary of the Department of Education. We will seek to have our accreditation reaffirmed in 2007 as part of a regularly scheduled reaffirmation process. Accreditation is a non-governmental system for recognizing educational institutions and their programs for student performance, governance, integrity, educational quality, faculty, physical resources, administrative capability and resources, and financial stability. In the United States, this recognition comes primarily through private voluntary associations that accredit institutions and programs of higher education. These associations, or accrediting agencies, establish criteria for accreditation, conduct peer-review evaluations of institutions and professional programs for accreditation and publicly designate those institutions that meet their criteria. Accredited schools are subject to periodic review by accrediting agencies to determine whether such schools maintain the performance, integrity and quality required for accreditation. 11 Table of Contents The Higher Learning Commission is the same accrediting agency that accredits such universities as Northwestern University, the University of Chicago, the University of Minnesota and other degree-granting public and private colleges and universities in its region (namely, the States of Arkansas, Arizona, Colorado, Iowa, Illinois, Indiana, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, North Dakota, Nebraska, Ohio, Oklahoma, New Mexico, South Dakota, Wisconsin, West Virginia and Wyoming). Accreditation by The Higher Learning Commission is important to us. Colleges and universities depend, in part, on accreditation in evaluating transfers of credit and applications to graduate schools. Prospective employers rely on accreditation information in evaluating job candidates. Moreover, institutional accreditation by an accrediting agency recognized by the Secretary of the Department of Education is necessary for eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. State Education Licensure We are subject to extensive regulations by the states in which we are authorized or licensed to operate. State laws typically establish standards for instruction, qualifications of faculty, administrative procedures, marketing, recruiting, financial operations and other operational matters. State laws and regulations may limit our ability to offer educational programs and to award degrees. We are authorized to offer our programs by the Minnesota Office of Higher Education, the regulatory agency governing the State of Minnesota, where Capella University is located. We are required by the Higher Education Act to maintain authorization from the Minnesota Office of Higher Education in order to participate in Title IV programs. In addition to Minnesota, Capella University is licensed or authorized to operate or to offer degree programs in the following states: Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Kentucky, Nevada, Ohio, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia and Wisconsin. We are licensed or authorized in these states because we have determined that our activities in each state constitute a presence requiring licensure or authorization by the state educational agency. In some cases, the licensure or authorization is only for specific programs. The increasing popularity and use of the Internet and other online services for the delivery of education has led and may lead to the adoption of new laws and regulatory practices in the United States or foreign countries and new interpretations of existing laws and regulations. These new laws, regulations and interpretations may relate to issues such as the requirement that online education institutions be licensed in one or more jurisdictions where they have no physical location or other presence. For instance, in some states, we are required to seek licensure or authorization because our recruiters meet with prospective students in the state. In other cases, the state educational agency has required licensure or authorization because we enroll students who reside in the state. New laws, regulations or interpretations related to doing business over the Internet could increase our cost of doing business and affect our ability to recruit students in particular states, which could, in turn, negatively affect enrollments and revenues and have a material adverse effect on our business. State Professional Licensure Many states have specific requirements that an individual must satisfy in order to be licensed as a professional in a specified field. Students often seek to obtain professional licensure in their chosen fields following graduation. Their success in obtaining licensure typically depends on several factors, including the individual merits of the graduate and factors specific to the institution from which the student graduated. Due to varying requirements for professional licensure in each state, Capella University’s catalog informs learners of the risks associated with obtaining professional licensure. In addition, we semi-annually remind our learners that they need to communicate directly with the state in which they intend to seek licensure to fully understand the licensing requirements of that state. 12 Table of Contents Nature of Federal, State and Private Financial Support for Post-Secondary Education The federal government provides a substantial part of its support for post-secondary education through Title IV programs, in the form of grants and loans to students who can use those funds at any institution that has been certified as eligible by the Department of Education. Aid under Title IV programs is primarily awarded on the basis of financial need, generally defined as the difference between the cost of attending the institution and the amount a student can reasonably contribute to that cost. All recipients of Title IV program funds must maintain satisfactory academic progress in a timely manner toward completion of their program of study. In addition, each such school must ensure that Title IV program funds are properly accounted for and disbursed in the correct amounts to eligible learners. Capella University learners receive loans and grants to fund their education under the following Title IV programs: (1) the Federal Family Education Loan (FFEL) program and (2) the Federal Pell Grant, or Pell, program. In 2006, approximately 71% of our revenues (calculated on a cash basis) were derived from tuition financed under Title IV programs. 1) FFEL. Under the FFEL program, banks and other lending institutions make loans to learners. If a learner defaults on a loan, payment is guaranteed by a federally recognized guaranty agency, which is then reimbursed by the Department of Education. Students with financial need qualify for interest subsidies while in school and during grace periods. In 2006, we derived approximately 70.6% of our revenues (calculated on a cash basis) from the FFEL program. 2) Pell. Under the Pell program, the Department of Education makes grants to students who demonstrate financial need. In 2006, we derived approximately 0.4% of our revenues (calculated on a cash basis) from the Pell program. In addition to the programs stated above, eligible learners at Capella University may participate in several other financial aid programs or receive support from other governmental and private sources, including the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs through the Minnesota Department of Veterans Affairs. In certain situations, we may assist learners in accessing alternative loan programs available to Capella University’s learners. Alternative loans are intended to cover the difference between what the learner receives from all financial aid and the full cost of the learner’s education. Finally, many Capella University learners finance their own education or receive full or partial tuition reimbursement from their employers. Regulation of Federal Student Financial Aid Programs To be eligible to participate in Title IV programs, an institution must comply with specific standards and procedures set forth in the Higher Education Act and the regulations issued thereunder by the Department of Education. An institution must, among other things, be licensed or authorized to offer its educational programs by the state within which it is physically located (in our case, Minnesota) and maintain institutional accreditation by a recognized accrediting agency. Capella University is currently certified to participate in Title IV programs through December 31, 2008. The substantial amount of federal funds disbursed through Title IV programs, the large number of students and institutions participating in these programs and allegations of fraud and abuse by certain for-profit institutions have caused Congress to require the Department of Education to exercise considerable regulatory oversight over for-profit institutions of higher learning. Accrediting agencies and state education agencies also have responsibilities for overseeing compliance of institutions with Title IV program requirements. Significant factors relating to Title IV programs that could adversely affect us include the following: Congressional Action. Congress reauthorizes the Higher Education Act approximately every five to eight years. Congress most recently reauthorized the Higher Education Act in 1998. Because reauthorization had not yet been completed in a timely manner, Congress extended the current provisions of the Higher Education Act through June 30, 2007. The new Congress is in the process of reviewing the Higher Education Act for purposes of reauthorization, but it is not possible to predict with certainty when the reauthorization process will be completed. If reauthorization is not completed by June 30, 2007, Congress is expected to enact 13 Table of Contents legislation to further temporarily extend Title IV programs as currently authorized under the Higher Education Act for a period of months, not likely to exceed one year. In addition, Congress reviews and determines appropriations for Title IV programs on an annual basis through the budget and appropriations process. A reduction in federal funding levels of such programs could reduce the ability of certain learners to finance their education. These changes, in turn, could lead to lower enrollments at Capella University or require Capella University to increase its reliance upon alternative sources of learner financial aid. Given the significant percentage of Capella University’s revenues that are derived indirectly from Title IV programs, the loss of or a significant reduction in Title IV program funds available to Capella University’s learners could reduce its enrollment and revenue and possibly have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, the regulations applicable to Capella University have been subject to frequent revisions, many of which have increased the level of scrutiny to which for-profit post-secondary educational institutions are subjected and have raised applicable standards. If Capella University were not to continue to comply with such regulations, such non-compliance might impair its ability to participate in Title IV programs, offer programs or continue to operate. Certain of the regulations applicable to Capella University are described below. Distance Learning and Repeal of the “50% Rules.” Capella University offers all of its existing degree programs via Internet-based telecommunications from Capella’s headquarters in Minneapolis, Minnesota. Prior to passage of the Higher Education Reconciliation Act as part of the Deficit Reduction Act in 2006, the Higher Education Act generally excluded from Title IV programs institutions at which (1) more than 50% of the institution’s courses were offered via distance delivery methods, which includes online courses, or (2) 50% or more of the institution’s students were enrolled in courses delivered via correspondence methods, including online courses. Because 100% of Capella University’s courses are online courses and 100% of its learners are enrolled in online courses, the 50% Rules would have, absent the Distance Education Demonstration Program (which provided the opportunity for Capella University and its learners to provisionally participate in Title IV programs) precluded Capella University and its learners from participating in Title IV programs. The 50% Rules were repealed for telecommunications courses (which include online courses) as part of the Higher Education Reconciliation Act, but remain in place for correspondence courses. Accordingly, online institutions such as Capella University, which offer their courses exclusively through telecommunications, are no longer subject to the 50% Rules. Following passage of the Higher Education Reconciliation Act, the Department of Education also terminated the Demonstration Program effective as of June 30, 2006. Because Capella University is no longer subject to the 50% Rules, it is likewise no longer dependent on the Demonstration Program to participate in the Title IV Programs. At least six lawsuits were filed challenging the constitutionality of the Deficit Reduction Act in general, on grounds that discrepancies exist between non-education related provisions of the legislation passed in the House and Senate. In the event that the Deficit Reduction Act is invalidated, the 50% Rules could be reinstated, and Capella University and its learners would not be in a position to participate in Title IV programs until the 50% Rules were repealed via alternative legislative action, or until Congress reinstated the Demonstration Program or otherwise acted to permit the participation of impacted Title IV participating institutions. Administrative Capability. Department of Education regulations specify extensive criteria by which an institution must establish that it has the requisite “administrative capability” to participate in Title IV programs. To meet the administrative capability standards, an institution, among other things, must comply with all applicable Title IV program regulations, must have capable and sufficient personnel to administer its financial aid programs, must have acceptable methods of defining and measuring the satisfactory academic progress of its students, must not have cohort default debt rates above specified levels, must have various procedures in place for safeguarding federal funds, and must not otherwise appear to lack administrative capability. Failure to satisfy any of the standards or any other Department of Education regulation, the Department of Education may: require the repayment of Title IV funds; transfer the institution from the “advance” system of payment of Title IV funds to cash monitoring status or to the “reimbursement” system of 14 Table of Contents payment; place the institution on provisional certification status; or commence a proceeding to impose a fine or to limit, suspend or terminate the participation of the institution in Title IV programs. Financial Responsibility. The Higher Education Act and Department of Education regulations establish extensive standards of financial responsibility that institutions such as Capella University must satisfy in order to participate in Title IV programs. These standards generally require that an institution provide the resources necessary to comply with Title IV program requirements and meet all of its financial obligations, including required refunds and any repayments to the Department of Education for liabilities incurred in programs administered by the Department of Education. The Department of Education evaluates institutions on an annual basis for compliance with specified financial responsibility standards utilizing a complex formula that uses line items from the institution’s audited financial statements. The standards focus on three financial ratios: (1) equity ratio (which measures the institution’s capital resources, financial viability and ability to borrow); (2) primary reserve ratio (which measures the institution’s ability to support current operations from expendable resources); and (3) net income ratio (which measures the institution’s ability to operate at a profit or within its means). An institution’s financial ratios must yield a composite score of at least 1.5 for the institution to be deemed financially responsible without the need for further federal oversight. We have applied the financial responsibility standards to our consolidated financial statements as of and for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, and calculated a composite score of 3.0 for both years, which is the maximum score attainable. We therefore believe that we meet the Department of Education’s financial responsibility standards. Title IV Return of Funds. Under the Department of Education’s return of funds regulations, an institution must first determine the amount of Title IV program funds that a student “earned.” If the student withdraws during the first 60% of any period of enrollment or payment period, the amount of Title IV program funds that the student earned is equal to a pro rata portion of the funds for which the student would otherwise be eligible. If the student withdraws after the 60% threshold, then the student has earned 100% of the Title IV program funds. The institution must return to the appropriate Title IV programs, in a specified order, the lesser of (i) the unearned Title IV program funds and (ii) the institutional charges incurred by the student for the period multiplied by the percentage of unearned Title IV program funds. The “90/10 Rule.” A requirement of the Higher Education Act, commonly referred to as the “90/10 Rule,” applies only to “proprietary institutions of higher education,” which includes Capella University. Under this rule, an institution loses its eligibility to participate in the Title IV programs, if, on a cash accounting basis, it derives more than 90% of its revenues for any fiscal year from Title IV program funds. Any institution that violates the rule becomes ineligible to participate in the Title IV programs as of the first day of the fiscal year following the fiscal year in which it exceeds 90%, and it is unable to apply to regain its eligibility until the next fiscal year. For the year ended December 31, 2006, we derived approximately 71% of our revenues (calculated on a cash basis) from Title IV program funds. Student Loan Defaults. Under the Higher Education Act, an educational institution may lose its eligibility to participate in some or all of the Title IV programs if defaults on the repayment of federally guaranteed student loans by its students exceed certain levels. For each federal fiscal year, a rate of student defaults (known as a “cohort default rate”) is calculated for each institution with 30 or more borrowers entering repayment in a given federal fiscal year by determining the rate at which borrowers who become subject to their repayment obligation in that federal fiscal year default by the end of the following federal fiscal year. For such institutions, the Department of Education calculates a single cohort default rate for each federal fiscal year that includes in the cohort all current or former student borrowers at the institution who entered repayment on any FFEL program loan during that year. If the Department of Education notifies an institution that its cohort default rates for each of the three most recent federal fiscal years are 25% or greater, the institution’s participation in the FFEL program and Pell program ends 30 days after the notification, unless the institution appeals in a timely manner that determination on specified grounds and according to specified procedures. In addition, an institution’s participation in the FFEL program ends 30 days after notification that its most recent cohort default rate is 15 Table of Contents greater than 40%, unless the institution timely appeals that determination on specified grounds and according to specified procedures. Capella University’s cohort default rates on FFEL program loans for the 2004, 2003 and 2002 federal fiscal years, the three most recent years for which information is available, were 2.2%, 1.8%, and 2.8%, respectively. The average cohort default rates for four-year proprietary institutions nationally were 7.3%, 6.4%, and 7.3% in fiscal years 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Incentive Compensation Rules. As a part of an institution’s program participation agreement with the Department of Education and in accordance with the Higher Education Act, the institution may not provide any commission, bonus or other incentive payment to any person or entity engaged in any student recruitment, admissions or financial aid awarding activity based directly or indirectly on success in securing enrollments or financial aid. Certain Department of Education regulations clarify the incentive payment rule. The regulations set forth 12 “safe harbors,” which describe payments or arrangements that do not violate the incentive payment rule. Failure to comply with the incentive compensation rules could result in loss of eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs or financial penalties. Although there can be no assurance that the Department of Education would not find deficiencies in Capella University’s present or former employee compensation and third-party contractual arrangements, we believe that our employee compensation and third-party contractual arrangements comply with the incentive compensation provisions of the Higher Education Act and Department of Education regulations thereunder. Compliance Reviews. We are subject to announced and unannounced compliance reviews and audits by various external agencies, including the Department of Education, its Office of Inspector General (“OIG”), state licensing agencies, agencies that guarantee FFEL loans, the Department of Veterans Affairs and accrediting agencies. As part of the Department of Education’s ongoing monitoring of institutions’ administration of Title IV programs, The Higher Education Act and Department of Education regulations also require institutions to annually submit a compliance audit conducted by an independent certified public accountant in accordance with Government Auditing Standards and applicable audit standards of the Department of Education. In addition, to enable the Secretary of Education to make a determination of financial responsibility, institutions must annually submit audited financial statements prepared in accordance with Department of Education regulations. The OIG is responsible for, among other things, promoting the effectiveness and integrity of the Department of Education’s programs and operations. With respect to educational institutions that participate in Title IV funding programs, the OIG conducts its work primarily through compliance audits and investigations. An OIG compliance audit typically focuses on whether an institution administers federal funds in accordance with applicable rules and regulations, whereas an investigation typically indicates a concern regarding potential fraud or abuse involving federal funds. The OIG has informed us that it is conducting a compliance audit (and not an investigation) of Capella University. The audit commenced on April 10, 2006 and since then we have been periodically providing the OIG with information, responding to follow up inquires and facilitating site visits and access to our records. The audit has focused on Capella University’s administration of Title IV funding programs for the Title IV award years of 2002-2003, 2003-2004 and 2004-2005 (with each award year commencing on July 1st). Although the 2005-2006 aid year is not specifically under audit, our discussions with OIG personnel have also covered activities during the 2005-2006 aid year, and we have included that aid year within the scope of our internal analysis of this matter, as more fully explained in the following paragraph. Based on the field auditors’ preliminary audit exceptions, which is a preliminary list of issues regarding Capella University’s compliance with Title IV rules and requirements, and our verbal communications with the OIG audit staff, we believe that the most significant potential financial exposure from the audit pertains to repayments to the Department of Education that could be required if the OIG concludes that we did not properly calculate the amount of Title IV funds required to be returned for learners that withdrew from Capella University without providing an official notification of such withdrawal and without engaging in academic activity prior to such withdrawal. We believe the OIG’s current review of administrative rules surrounding learner engagement reflects our evolution of the application of these rules to an online education 16 Table of Contents environment. Based on its review to date, the OIG audit staff has identified certain learners for whom it believes proper returns of Title IV funds were not made. If it is determined that we improperly withheld any portion of these funds, we would be required to return the improperly withheld funds. As part of our internal process of continuously evaluating and attempting to improve our policies and procedures, prior to the initiation of the OIG audit we had already begun modifying our policies and procedures for determining whether a learner is engaged in any academic activity. We developed these policies and procedures during spring 2006 and fully implemented them for the financial aid year 2006-2007. For the three year audit period, and for the 2005-2006 aid year, we estimate that the total amount of Title IV funds not returned for learners who withdrew without providing official notification was less than $1.0 million, including interest, but not including fines and penalties. The OIG field audit staff is also reviewing certain of our procedures for determining whether learners are enrolled in an eligible educational program prior to our disbursing Title IV funds to these learners. Such enrollment is a prerequisite to a learner’s receipt of Title IV funding. To date, specific inquiries by the OIG audit staff have focused on our practice of noting learners’ anticipated Title IV funding on their accounts prior to final confirmation of such enrollment, and whether we timely returned Title IV funds that could not be disbursed within required timeframes to an eligible learner. While Capella University believes that its practices did not result in a disbursement of Title IV funds to ineligible learners, and that the non-disbursed Title IV funds were properly and timely returned, the OIG is still reviewing the matter. During the course of the audit process, the OIG field audit staff have also questioned certain other matters that we presently believe, based on communications with the OIG audit staff, to be of lesser significance. Those additional matters include apparent discrepancies between our policy regarding satisfactory academic progress as set forth in the Capella University catalog and as set forth in other communications to our learners; whether we properly performed and documented student loan exit counseling for certain learners in the audit sample; and, whether we properly reviewed the financial aid histories of certain learners in the audit sample. The OIG completed its field work in January 2007, and based on our conversations with the OIG, we believe they will issue a draft audit report for our response and comment sometime in March 2007. We expect that the OIG will not issue a final report for several months thereafter. Consistent with the OIG’s normal practices, the final audit report will be made public at the time it is released to both us and to the Department of Education’s Office of Federal Student Aid (“FSA”). FSA is responsible for primary oversight of the Title IV funding programs. In the event that the OIG identifies findings of noncompliance in its final audit report, the OIG will recommend remedial action to FSA, which will determine whether to require that we refund certain federal student aid funds, modify our Title IV administration procedures, impose fines or penalties or take other remedial action. The possible effects of a finding of a regulatory violation are described below in “Potential Effect of Regulatory Violations.” Potential Effect of Regulatory Violations. If Capella University fails to comply with the regulatory standards governing Title IV programs, the Department of Education could impose one or more sanctions, including transferring Capella University to the reimbursement or cash monitoring system of payment, seeking to require repayment of certain Title IV program funds, requiring Capella University to post a letter of credit in favor of the Department of Education as a condition for continued Title IV certification, taking emergency action against Capella University, referring the matter for criminal prosecution or initiating proceedings to impose a fine or to limit, condition, suspend or terminate the participation of Capella University in Title IV programs. In addition, the agencies that guarantee FFEL loans for Capella University learners could initiate proceedings to limit, suspend or terminate Capella University’s eligibility to provide guaranteed student loans in the event of certain regulatory violations. If such sanctions or proceedings were imposed against us and resulted in a substantial curtailment, or termination, of Capella University’s participation in Title IV programs, our enrollments, revenues and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. If Capella University lost its eligibility to participate in Title IV programs, or if the amount of available federal student financial aid were reduced, we would seek to arrange or provide alternative sources of revenue or financial aid for learners. Although we believe that one or more private organizations would be willing to provide financial assistance to learners attending Capella University, there is no assurance that this would be 17 Table of Contents the case, and the interest rate and other terms of such financial aid might not be as favorable as those for Title IV program funds. We may be required to guarantee all or part of such alternative assistance or might incur other additional costs in connection with securing alternative sources of financial aid. Accordingly, the loss of eligibility of Capella University to participate in Title IV programs, or a reduction in the amount of available federal student financial aid, would be expected to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations even if we could arrange or provide alternative sources of revenue or student financial aid. Capella University also may be subject, from time to time, to complaints and lawsuits relating to regulatory compliance brought not only by our regulatory agencies, but also by other government agencies and third parties, such as present or former learners or employees and other members of the public. Restrictions on Adding Educational Programs. State requirements and accrediting agency standards may, in certain instances, limit our ability to establish additional programs. Many states require approval before institutions can add new programs under specified conditions. The Higher Learning Commission, the Minnesota Office of Higher Education, and other state educational regulatory agencies that license or authorize us and our programs, require institutions to notify them in advance of implementing new programs, and upon notification may undertake a review of the institution’s licensure, authorization or accreditation. Generally, if an institution eligible to participate in Title IV programs adds an educational program after it has been designated as an eligible institution, the institution must apply to the Department of Education to have the additional program designated as eligible. However, a degree-granting institution is not obligated to obtain the Department of Education’s approval of additional programs that lead to an associate, bachelor’s, professional or graduate degree at the same degree level(s) previously approved by the Department of Education. Similarly, an institution is not required to obtain advance approval for new programs that both prepare learners for gainful employment in the same or related recognized occupation as an educational program that has previously been designated as an eligible program at that institution and meet certain minimum-length requirements. However, the Department of Education, as a condition of certification to participate in Title IV programs, can require prior approval of such programs or otherwise restrict the number of programs an institution may add. In the event that an institution that is required to obtain the Department of Education’s express approval for the addition of a new program fails to do so, and erroneously determines that the new educational program is eligible for Title IV program funds, the institution may be liable for repayment of Title IV program funds received by the institution or learners in connection with that program. Eligibility and Certification Procedures. Each institution must apply to the Department of Education for continued certification to participate in Title IV programs at least every six years, or when it undergoes a change of control, and an institution may come under the Department of Education’s review when it expands its activities in certain ways, such as opening an additional location or, in certain cases, when it modifies academic credentials that it offers. The Department of Education may place an institution on provisional certification status if it finds that the institution does not fully satisfy all of the eligibility and certification standards. The Department of Education may withdraw an institution’s provisional certification without advance notice if the Department of Education determines that the institution is not fulfilling all material requirements. In addition, the Department of Education may more closely review an institution that is provisionally certified if it applies for approval to open a new location, add an educational program, acquire another school or make any other significant change. Change in Ownership Resulting in a Change of Control. In addition to school acquisitions, other types of transactions can also cause a change of control. The Department of Education, most state education agencies and our accrediting agency all have standards pertaining to the change of control of schools, but these standards are not uniform. Department of Education regulations describe some transactions that constitute a change of control, including the transfer of a controlling interest in the voting stock of an institution or the institution’s parent corporation. With respect to a publicly traded corporation, Department of Education regulations provide that a change of control occurs in one of two ways: (i) if there is an event that would obligate the corporation to file a Current Report on Form 8-K with the SEC disclosing a change of control or (ii) if the corporation has a shareholder that owns at least 25% of the total outstanding voting stock of the corporation and is the largest shareholder of the corporation, and that shareholder ceases to own at least 18 Table of Contents 25% of such stock or ceases to be the largest shareholder. These standards are subject to interpretation by the Department of Education. A significant purchase or disposition of our voting stock could be determined by the Department of Education to be a change of control under this standard. Many states include the sale of a controlling interest of common stock in the definition of a change of control requiring approval. A change of control under the definition of one of these agencies would require us to seek approval of the change in ownership and control in order to maintain our accreditation, state authorization or licensure. The requirements to obtain such approval from the states and our accrediting commission vary widely. In some cases, approval of the change of ownership and control cannot be obtained until after the transaction has occurred. When a change of ownership resulting in a change of control occurs at a for-profit institution, the Department of Education applies a different set of financial tests to determine the financial responsibility of the institution in conjunction with its review and approval of the change of ownership. The institution is required to submit a same-day audited balance sheet reflecting the financial condition of the institution immediately following the change in ownership. The institution’s same-day balance sheet must demonstrate an acid test ratio of at least 1:1, which is calculated by adding cash and cash equivalents to current accounts receivable and dividing the sum by total current liabilities (and excluding all unsecured or uncollateralized related party receivables). In addition, the same-day balance sheet must demonstrate positive tangible net worth. If the institution does not satisfy these requirements, the Department of Education may condition its approval of the change of ownership on the institution’s agreeing to letters of credit, provisional certification, and/or additional monitoring requirements. A change of control also could occur as a result of future transactions in which Capella Education Company or Capella University are involved. Some corporate reorganizations and some changes in the board of directors are examples of such transactions. Moreover, the potential adverse effects of a change of control could influence future decisions by us and our shareholders regarding the sale, purchase, transfer, issuance or redemption of our stock. In addition, the adverse regulatory effect of a change of control also could discourage bids for shares of our common stock and could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to the Extensive Regulation of Our Business If we fail to comply with the extensive regulatory requirements for our business, we could face significant restrictions on our operations and monetary penalties, including loss of access to federal loans and grants for our learners on which we are substantially dependent. In 2006, we derived approximately 71% of our revenues (calculated on a cash basis) from federal student financial aid programs, referred to in this report as Title IV programs, administered by the U.S. Department of Education. A significant percentage of our learners rely on the availability of Title IV program funds to cover their cost of attendance at Capella University and related educational expenses. Title IV programs include educational loans for our learners from both private lenders and the federal government at below-market interest rates that are guaranteed by the federal government in the event of default. Title IV programs also include several income-based grant programs for learners with the greatest economic need as determined in accordance with Department of Education regulations. To participate in Title IV programs, a school must receive and maintain authorization by the appropriate state education agencies, be accredited by an accrediting agency recognized by the Secretary of the Department of Education and be certified as an eligible institution by the Department of Education. As a result, we are subject to extensive regulation by state education agencies, our accrediting agency and the Department of Education. These regulatory requirements cover the vast majority of our operations, including our educational programs, facilities, instructional and administrative staff, administrative procedures, marketing, recruiting, financial operations and financial condition. These regulatory requirements can also affect our ability to acquire or open additional schools, to add new or expand existing educational programs and to change our corporate structure and ownership. The state education agencies, our accrediting agency and the Department of Education periodically revise their requirements and modify their interpretations of existing requirements. 19 Table of Contents If we fail to comply with any of these regulatory requirements, our regulatory agencies could impose monetary penalties, place limitations on our operations, terminate our ability to grant degrees and certificates, revoke our accreditation and/or terminate our eligibility to receive Title IV program funds, each of which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, should we fail to properly comply with the regulatory requirements set forth in the following risk factors, and as a result be charged, sanctioned, subjected to loss of a federal, state or agency approval or authorization, or otherwise be penalized in some way, our reputation could be damaged and such damage could have a negative impact on our stock price. We cannot predict with certainty how all of these regulatory requirements will be applied or whether we will be able to comply with all of the requirements in the future. We have described some of the most significant regulatory risks that apply to us in the following paragraphs. We must seek recertification to participate in Title IV programs no less than every six years, and may, in certain circumstances, be subject to review by the Department of Education prior to seeking recertification. An institution that is certified to participate in Title IV programs must seek recertification from the Department of Education at least every six years, or when it undergoes a change of control. The recertification process includes the electronic submission of a new “Application for Approval to Participate in the Federal Student Financial Aid Programs,” which includes information about the school’s administration, ownership, educational programs and compliance with Department of Education regulations. The application is accompanied by financial statements and documentation of continued accreditation and state authorization. Our current certification expires on December 31, 2008. Our application for recertification will be due for submission no later than September 30, 2008. The Department of Education may also review our continued certification to participate in Title IV programs in the event we expand our activities in certain ways, such as opening an additional location or, in certain cases, if we modify the academic credentials that we offer. In addition, the Department of Education may withdraw our certification without advance notice if it determines that we are not fulfilling material requirements for continued participation in Title IV programs. If the Department of Education did not renew or withdrew our certification to participate in Title IV programs, our learners would no longer be able to receive Title IV program funds, which would have a material adverse effect on our enrollments, revenues and results of operations. Congress may change the law or reduce funding for Title IV programs, which could reduce our learner population, revenues and profit margin. Congress reauthorizes the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended (the Higher Education Act) and other laws governing Title IV programs approximately every five to eight years. The last reauthorization of the Higher Education Act was completed in 1998, which extended authorization through September 30, 2004. Because reauthorization had not yet been completed in a timely manner, Congress extended the current provisions of the Higher Education Act through June 30, 2007. Additionally, Congress reviews and determines appropriations for Title IV programs on an annual basis through the budget and appropriations process. There is no assurance that reauthorization of the Higher Education Act will happen, or that Congress will not enact changes that decrease Title IV program funds available to students, including students who attend our institution. A failure by Congress to reauthorize or otherwise extend the provisions of the Higher Education Act, or any action by Congress that significantly reduces funding for Title IV programs or the ability of our school or learners to participate in these programs, would require us to arrange for non-federal sources of financial aid and would materially decrease our enrollment. Such a decrease in enrollment would have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Congressional action may also require us to modify our practices in ways that could result in increased administrative costs and decreased profit margin. 20 Table of Contents The Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Education has commenced a compliance audit of Capella University which is ongoing and which may result in repayment of Title IV funds, interest, fines, penalties, remedial action and damage to our reputation in the industry. The Office of Inspector General (“OIG”) of the U.S. Department of Education is responsible for, among other things, promoting the effectiveness and integrity of the Department of Education’s programs and operations. With respect to educational institutions that participate in the Title IV funding programs, the OIG conducts its work primarily through compliance audits and investigations. An OIG compliance audit typically focuses upon whether an institution administers federal funds in accordance with applicable rules and regulations, whereas an investigation typically indicates a concern regarding potential fraud or abuse involving federal funds. In our case, the OIG has informed us that they are conducting a compliance audit (and not an investigation) of Capella University. The compliance audit commenced on April 10, 2006 and since then we have been working with the OIG to facilitate their audit. The period under audit is the Title IV award years of 2002-2003, 2003-2004 and 2004-2005 (with each award year commencing on July 1st). We do not yet know the full scope of the OIG’s findings; however, based on the field auditors’ preliminary audit exceptions and our verbal communications with the OIG audit staff, we believe that the audit is primarily focused upon whether we properly calculated the amount of Title IV funds required to be returned for learners that withdrew from Capella University without providing an official notification of withdrawal and without engaging in any academic activity prior to such withdrawal. Based on its review to date, the OIG audit staff has identified several such learners for whom it believes proper returns of Title IV funds were not made. If it is determined that we improperly withheld any portion of these funds, we would be required to return the improperly withheld funds, with interest (and possibly fines and penalties). As part of our internal process of continuously evaluating and attempting to improve our policies and procedures, prior to the initiation of the OIG audit we had already begun modifying our policies and procedures for determining whether a learner is engaged in any academic activity. We developed these policies and procedures during spring 2006 and fully implemented them for the 2006-2007 financial aid year. For the three year audit period, and for that portion of the 2005-2006 award year prior to our change in policies and procedures described above, we estimate that the total amount of the Title IV funds not returned for learners who withdrew without providing official notification was less than $1.0 million, including interest, but not including any fines or penalties. We believe the audit is also focused upon our policies and procedures for disbursing Title IV funding to learners, and focused to a lesser extent on our communication to our learners of our satisfactory academic progress policy, our exit counseling for federal student loan recipients, and our review of learners’ financial aid histories prior to disbursing Title IV funding. See “Item 1 — Business — Regulation — Regulation of Federal Student Financial Aid Programs — Compliance Reviews” for information about the OIG audit staff’s inquiries. The OIG completed its field work in January 2007, and based on our conversations with the OIG, we believe they will issue a draft audit report for our response and comment sometime in March 2007. We expect that the OIG will not issue a final report until several months thereafter. In the event that the OIG identifies findings of noncompliance in its final report, the OIG will likely recommend remedial actions to the Office of Federal Student Aid, which will determine whether to require Capella University to refund certain federal student aid funds, modify our Title IV administration procedures, impose fines or penalties or take other remedial action. Because of the ongoing nature of the OIG audit, we can neither know nor predict with certainty the ultimate extent of the draft or final audit findings, or the potential liability or remedial actions that might result. These findings and related remedial action may have an adverse impact on our reputation in the industry, our cash flows and results of operations and our ability to recruit learners, and may have an adverse effect on our stock price. The possible effects of a finding of a regulatory violation (including refunds, fines, penalties and limitations, conditions, suspension or termination of our participation in Title IV programs) are described more fully in “Item 1 — Business — Regulation — Regulation of Federal Student Financial Aid Programs — Potential Effect of Regulatory Violations.” 21 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain our institutional accreditation, we would lose our ability to participate in Title IV programs. Capella University is accredited by The Higher Learning Commission of the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools, one of six regional accrediting agencies recognized by the Secretary of the Department of Education as a reliable indicator of educational quality. Accreditation by a recognized accrediting agency is required for an institution to become and remain eligible to participate in Title IV programs. In 2007, we will seek to have our accreditation reaffirmed with The Higher Learning Commission as part of a regularly scheduled accreditation reaffirmation process. The Higher Learning Commission may impose restrictions on our accreditation or may not renew our accreditation. To remain accredited we must continuously meet certain criteria and standards relating to, among other things, performance, governance, institutional integrity, educational quality, faculty, administrative capability, resources and financial stability. Failure to meet any of these criteria or standards could result in the loss of accreditation at the discretion of The Higher Learning Commission. The Department of Education has recently held hearings on possible changes in accreditation rules; changes in the accreditation rules could negatively impact our ability to comply and could increase our cost of compliance. The loss of accreditation would, among other things, render our learners and us ineligible to participate in Title IV programs, reduce the marketability of a Capella degree and have a material adverse effect on our enrollments, revenues and results of operations. If Capella University does not maintain its authorization in Minnesota, it may not operate or participate in Title IV programs. A school that grants degrees, diplomas or certificates must be authorized by the relevant education agency of the state in which it is located. Capella University is deemed to be located in the State of Minnesota and is authorized by the Minnesota Office of Higher Education. State authorization is also required for our learners to be eligible to receive funding under Title IV programs. Such authorization may be lost or withdrawn if Capella University fails to submit renewal applications and other required submissions to the state in a timely manner, or if Capella University fails to comply with material requirements under Minnesota statutes and rules for continued authorization. Loss of state authorization by Capella University from the Minnesota Office of Higher Education would terminate our ability to provide educational services as well as our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. Our regulatory environment and our reputation may be negatively influenced by the actions of other for-profit institutions. We are one of a number of for-profit institutions serving the post-secondary education market. In recent years, regulatory investigations and civil litigation have been commenced against several companies that own for-profit educational institutions. These investigations and lawsuits have alleged, among other things, deceptive trade practices and non-compliance with Department of Education regulations. These allegations have attracted adverse media coverage and have been the subject of federal and state legislative hearings. Although the media, regulatory and legislative focus has been primarily upon the allegations made against these specific companies, broader allegations against the overall for-profit school sector may negatively impact public perceptions of other for-profit educational institutions, including Capella University. Adverse media coverage regarding other companies in the for-profit school sector or regarding us directly could damage our reputation, could result in lower enrollments, revenues and operating profit, and could have a negative impact on our stock price. Such allegations could also result in increased scrutiny and regulation by the Department of Education, Congress, accrediting bodies, state legislatures or other governmental authorities on all for-profit institutions, including us. We are subject to sanctions if we fail to correctly calculate and timely return Title IV program funds for learners who withdraw before completing their educational program. A school participating in Title IV programs must correctly calculate the amount of unearned Title IV program funds that have been disbursed to students who withdraw from their educational programs before completion and must return those unearned funds in a timely manner, generally within 30 days (45 days 22 Table of Contents beginning September 8, 2006) of the date the school determines that the student has withdrawn. Under Department of Education regulations, late returns of Title IV program funds for 5% or more of students sampled on the institution’s annual compliance audit constitutes material non-compliance. If unearned funds are not properly calculated and timely returned, we may have to post a letter of credit in favor of the Department of Education or otherwise be sanctioned by the Department of Education, which could increase our cost of regulatory compliance and adversely affect our results of operations. As described in “Item 1 — Business — Regulation — Regulation of Federal Student Financial Aid Programs — Compliance Reviews,” we are currently subject to an OIG audit which we understand includes a review of the amount of Title IV program funds that we returned for learners who withdrew from their educational programs before completion and without providing official notification of such withdrawal. A failure to demonstrate “financial responsibility” may result in the loss of eligibility by Capella University to participate in Title IV programs or require the posting of a letter of credit in order to maintain eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. To participate in Title IV programs, an eligible institution must satisfy specific measures of financial responsibility prescribed by the Department of Education, or post a letter of credit in favor of the Department of Education and possibly accept other conditions on its participation in Title IV programs. The Department of Education may also apply such measures of financial responsibility to the operating company and ownership entities of an eligible institution and, if such measures are not satisfied by the operating company or ownership entities, require the institution to post a letter of credit in favor of the Department of Education and possibly accept other conditions on its participation in Title IV programs. Any obligation to post a letter of credit could increase our costs of regulatory compliance. If Capella University is unable to secure a letter of credit, it would lose its eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. In addition to the obligation to post a letter of credit, an institution that is determined by the Department of Education not to be financially responsible can be transferred from the “advance” system of payment of Title IV funds to cash monitoring status or to the “reimbursement” system of payment. Limitations on, or termination of, Capella University’s participation in Title IV programs as a result of its failure to demonstrate financial responsibility would limit Capella University’s learners’ access to Title IV program funds, which could significantly reduce our enrollments and revenues and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. A failure to demonstrate “administrative capability” may result in the loss of Capella University’s eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. Department of Education regulations specify extensive criteria an institution must satisfy to establish that it has the requisite “administrative capability” to participate in Title IV programs. These criteria require, among other things, that the institution: • comply with all applicable Title IV program regulations; • have capable and sufficient personnel to administer the federal student financial aid programs; • have acceptable methods of defining and measuring the satisfactory academic progress of its students; • not have cohort default debt rates above specified levels; • have various procedures in place for safeguarding federal funds; • not be, and not have any principal or affiliate who is, debarred or suspended from federal contracting or engaging in activity that is cause for debarment or suspension; • provide financial aid counseling to its students; • refer to the Department of Education’s Office of Inspector General any credible information indicating that any applicant, student, employee or agent of the institution has been engaged in any fraud or other illegal conduct involving Title IV programs; • submit in a timely manner all reports and financial statements required by the regulations; and 23 Table of Contents • not otherwise appear to lack administrative capability. If an institution fails to satisfy any of these criteria or comply with any other Department of Education regulations, the Department of Education may: • require the repayment of Title IV funds; • transfer the institution from the “advance” system of payment of Title IV funds to cash monitoring status or to the “reimbursement” system of payment; • place the institution on provisional certification status; or • commence a proceeding to impose a fine or to limit, suspend or terminate the participation of the institution in Title IV programs. If we are found not to have satisfied the Department of Education’s “administrative capability” requirements we could be limited in our access to, or lose, Title IV program funding, which would significantly reduce our enrollment and revenues and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to sanctions if we pay impermissible commissions, bonuses or other incentive payments to individuals involved in certain recruiting, admissions or financial aid activities. A school participating in Title IV programs may not provide any commission, bonus or other incentive payment to any person involved in student recruiting or admission activities or in making decisions regarding the awarding of Title IV program funds based on success in enrolling students or securing financial aid. If we violate this law, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by the Department of Education. Any such fines or sanctions could harm our reputation, impose significant costs on us, and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our failure to comply with regulations of various states could result in actions taken by those states that would have a material adverse effect on our enrollments, revenues and results of operations. Various states impose regulatory requirements on educational institutions operating within their boundaries. Several states have sought to assert jurisdiction over online educational institutions that have no physical location or other presence in the state but offer educational services to students who reside in the state, or that advertise to or recruit prospective students in the state. State regulatory requirements for online education are inconsistent between states and not well developed in many jurisdictions. As such, these requirements change frequently and, in some instances, are not clear or are left to the discretion of state employees or agents. Our changing business and the constantly changing regulatory environment require us to continually evaluate our state regulatory compliance activities. In the event we are found not to be in compliance, and a state seeks to restrict one or more of our business activities within its boundaries, we may not be able to recruit learners from that state and may have to cease providing service to learners in that state. Capella University is subject to extensive regulations by the states in which it is authorized or licensed. In addition to Minnesota, Capella University is authorized or licensed in the following 14 states for all or some 24 Table of Contents of its programs because we have determined that our activities in these states constitute a presence or otherwise require authorization or licensure by the respective state educational agencies: State Capella University Activity Constituting Presence Requiring Licensure or Authorization Alabama Agreement with a former provider of library services to Capella students. Arizona State agency broadly interprets presence requiring licensure to include the offering of degree programs by distance education; Capella also conducts in-state colloquia. Arkansas Agreement with Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. under which Wal-Mart employees located in Arkansas receive discounted tuition for certain Capella University programs. Colorado No determination of presence; authorization granted in order to have marketing and recruiting agents in the state. Florida Recruiting activities in the state. Georgia Direct marketing and recruiting activities in the state. Illinois Authorization to conduct in-state colloquia. Kentucky Direct marketing and recruiting activities in the state. Nevada Direct marketing and recruiting activities in the state; agreements with community colleges. Ohio Direct marketing and recruiting activities in the state for select programs. Virginia Direct marketing and recruiting activities in the state; agreements with community colleges. Washington Direct marketing and recruiting activities in the state; agreements with community colleges. West Virginia Direct marketing and recruiting activities in the state. Wisconsin State agency broadly interprets licensure requirements to cover all institutions serving residents of the state. As of the last day of classes for the quarter ended December 31, 2006, the number of learners living in each of these states (other than Minnesota, Florida and Georgia) was less than 5% of our total enrollment. As of the last day of classes for the quarter ended December 31, 2006, approximately 5% of our learners lived in Minnesota, approximately 6% lived in Florida and approximately 8% lived in Georgia. In some cases, the licensure or authorization is only for specific programs. In the majority of these states, Capella University has determined that separate licensure or authorization for its certificate programs is not necessary, although approval of certificate programs is required and has been obtained from the States of Arizona, Florida and Ohio. State laws typically establish standards for instruction, qualifications of faculty, administrative procedures, marketing, recruiting, financial operations and other operational matters. State laws and regulations may limit our ability to offer educational programs and award degrees. Some states may also prescribe financial regulations that are different from those of the Department of Education. Capella University is required to post surety bonds in several states. If we fail to comply with state licensing or authorization requirements, we may be subject to the loss of state licensure or authorization. Although we believe that the only state licensure or authorization that is necessary for Capella University to participate in Title IV programs is our authorization from the Minnesota Office of Higher Education, loss of licensure or authorization in other states could prohibit us from recruiting or enrolling students in those states, reduce significantly our enrollments and revenues and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The inability of our graduates to obtain licensure in their chosen professional fields of study could reduce our enrollments and revenues, and potentially lead to litigation that could be costly to us. Certain of our graduates seek professional licensure in their chosen fields following graduation. Their success in obtaining licensure depends on several factors, including the individual merits of the learner, but also may depend on whether the institution and the program were approved by the state or by a professional association, whether the program from which the learner graduated meets all state requirements and whether the institution is accredited. Certain states have refused to license students who graduate from programs that do not meet specific types of accreditation, residency or other state requirements. In the past, certain states have refused to license learners from particular Capella University programs due to the fact that the program did not meet one or more of the state’s specific licensure requirements. We have had to respond to claims 25 Table of Contents brought against us by former learners as a result of such refusal. Certain states have denied our graduates professional licensure because the Capella University program from which they graduated did not have a sufficient number of residency hours, did not satisfy state coursework requirements or was not accredited by a specific third party (such as the American Psychological Association). In the event that one or more states refuses to recognize our learners for professional licensure in the future based on factors relating to our institution or programs, the potential growth of our programs would be negatively impacted which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, we could be exposed to litigation that would force us to incur legal and other expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If regulators do not approve or delay their approval of transactions involving a change of control of our company, our ability to participate in Title IV programs may be impaired. If we or Capella University experience a change of control under the standards of applicable state education agencies, The Higher Learning Commission or the Department of Education, we must seek the approval of each relevant regulatory agency. Transactions or events that constitute a change of control include significant acquisitions or dispositions of an institution’s common stock and significant changes in the composition of an institution’s board of directors. Some of these transactions or events may be beyond our control. The potential adverse effects of a change of control with respect to participation in Title IV programs could influence future decisions by us and our shareholders regarding the sale, purchase, transfer, issuance or redemption of our common stock. In addition, the adverse regulatory effect of a change of control finding also could discourage bids for your shares of our common stock and could have an adverse effect on the market price of your shares. Government and regulatory agencies and third parties may conduct compliance reviews, bring claims or initiate litigation against us. Because we operate in a highly regulated industry, we are subject to compliance reviews and claims of non-compliance and lawsuits by government agencies, regulatory agencies and third parties, including claims brought by third parties on behalf of the federal government. If the results of these reviews or proceedings are unfavorable to us, or if we are unable to defend successfully against lawsuits or claims, we may be required to pay money damages or be subject to fines, limitations, loss of Title IV funding, injunctions or other penalties. Even if we adequately address issues raised by an agency review or successfully defend a lawsuit or claim, we may have to divert significant financial and management resources from our ongoing business operations to address issues raised by those reviews or to defend against those lawsuits or claims. Claims and lawsuits brought against us may damage our reputation, even if such claims and lawsuits are without merit. We may lose eligibility to participate in Title IV programs if our student loan default rates are too high, which would significantly reduce our learner population. An educational institution may lose its eligibility to participate in some or all Title IV programs if, for three consecutive federal fiscal years, 25% or more of its students who were required to begin repaying their student loans in the relevant fiscal year default on their payment by the end of the next federal fiscal year. In addition, an institution may lose its eligibility to participate in some or all Title IV programs if its default rate exceeds 40% in the most recent federal fiscal year for which default rates have been calculated by the Department of Education. Capella University’s default rates on the Federal Family Education Loan, or FFEL, program loans for the 2004, 2003 and 2002 federal fiscal years, the three most recent years for which information is available, were 2.2%, 1.8% and 2.8%, respectively. If Capella University loses its eligibility to participate in Title IV programs because of high student loan default rates, our learners would no longer be eligible to receive Title IV program funds under various government-sponsored financial aid programs, which would significantly reduce our enrollments and revenues and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 26 Table of Contents We may lose eligibility to participate in Title IV programs if the 50% Rules are reinstated temporarily or permanently, which would significantly reduce our learner population and have an adverse effect on our revenues and operating profits. Prior to passage of the Higher Education Reconciliation Act of 2006, which was part of the Deficit Reduction Act of 2006, the Higher Education Act generally excluded from Title IV program participation institutions at which (1) more than 50% of the institution’s courses were offered via correspondence, including online courses, or (2) 50% or more of the institution’s students were enrolled in correspondence courses, including online courses. As an exclusively online university, the so called “50% Rules,” enacted in 1992, would otherwise have precluded us from participating in Title IV programs. However, in 1998, Congress authorized the Department of Education to establish and administer the Distance Education Demonstration Program, or the Demonstration Program, to assess the viability of providing Title IV program funds to institutions that offered online educational programs. We were accepted as a participant in the program and, by virtue of our participation in the program, our learners were able to access Title IV program funds. The 50% Rules were repealed for telecommunications courses (including online courses) as part of the Higher Education Reconciliation Act, and the Demonstration Program was thereafter terminated. As a result, our learners continue to be able to access Title IV Funds. At least six lawsuits were filed challenging the constitutionality of the Deficit Reduction Act in general, on grounds that discrepancies exist between non-education related provisions of the legislation passed in the House and Senate. At least four of these cases have been dismissed at the U.S. District Court level, although at least two of those dismissals are currently being appealed. In the event litigation challenging the Deficit Reduction Act is successful, the 50% Rules could be reinstated and, barring reinstatement of the Demonstration Program or additional legislative action, our learners would not be able to access Title IV program funds. If our learners were temporarily or permanently unable to access Title IV funds, many would not be able to continue their educations at Capella University, which would significantly reduce our enrollments, revenues and operating profits. We may lose eligibility to participate in Title IV programs if the percentage of our revenue derived from those programs is too high, which would significantly reduce our learner population. A for-profit institution loses its eligibility to participate in Title IV programs if, on a cash accounting basis, it derives more than 90% of its revenue from those programs in any fiscal year. In 2006, under the regulatory formula prescribed by the Department of Education, we derived approximately 71% of our revenues (calculated on a cash basis) from Title IV programs. If we lose our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs because more than 90% of our revenues are derived from Title IV program funds in any year, our learners would no longer be eligible to receive Title IV program funds under various government-sponsored financial aid programs, which would significantly reduce our enrollments and revenues and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Business Our success depends in part on our ability to update and expand the content of existing programs and develop new programs and specializations on a timely basis and in a cost-effective manner. The updates and expansions of our existing programs and the development of new programs and specializations may not be accepted by existing or prospective learners or employers. If we cannot respond to changes in market requirements, our business may be adversely affected. Even if we are able to develop acceptable new programs, we may not be able to introduce these new programs as quickly as learners require or as quickly as our competitors introduce competing programs. To offer a new academic program, we may be required to obtain appropriate federal, state and accrediting agency approvals, which may be conditioned or delayed in a manner that could significantly affect our growth plans. In addition, to be eligible for federal student financial aid programs, a new academic program may need to be certified by the Department of Education. If we are unable to respond adequately to changes in market requirements due to financial constraints or other factors, our ability to attract and retain learners could be impaired and our financial results could suffer. 27 Table of Contents Establishing new academic programs or modifying existing programs requires us to make investments in management and capital expenditures, incur marketing expenses and reallocate other resources. We may have limited experience with the courses in new areas and may need to modify our systems and strategy or enter into arrangements with other educational institutions to provide new programs effectively and profitably. If we are unable to increase the number of learners, or offer new programs in a cost-effective manner, or are otherwise unable to manage effectively the operations of newly established academic programs, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our financial performance depends on our ability to continue to develop awareness among, and attract and retain, working adult learners. Building awareness of Capella University and the programs we offer among working adult learners is critical to our ability to attract prospective learners. It is also critical to our success that we convert these prospective learners to enrolled learners in a cost effective manner and that these enrolled learners remain active in our programs. Some of the factors that could prevent us from successfully enrolling and retaining learners in our programs include: • the emergence of more successful competitors; • factors related to our marketing, including the costs of Internet advertising and broad-based branding campaigns; • performance problems with our online systems; • failure to maintain accreditation; • learner dissatisfaction with our services and programs; • adverse publicity regarding us, our competitors or online or for-profit education generally; • price reductions by competitors that we are unwilling or unable to match; • a decline in the acceptance of online education; and • a decrease in the perceived or actual economic benefits that learners derive from our programs. If we are unable to continue to develop awareness of Capella University and the programs we offer, and to enroll and retain learners, our enrollments would suffer and our ability to increase revenues and maintain profitability would be significantly impaired. Strong competition in the post-secondary education market, especially in the online education market, could decrease our market share, increase our cost of acquiring learners and put downward pressure on our tuition rates. Post-secondary education is highly competitive. We compete with traditional public and private two-year and four-year colleges as well as other for-profit schools. Traditional colleges and universities may offer programs similar to ours at lower tuition levels as a result of government subsidies, government and foundation grants, tax-deductible contributions and other financial sources not available to for-profit institutions. In addition, some of our competitors, including both traditional colleges and universities and other for-profit schools, have substantially greater name recognition and financial and other resources than we have, which may enable them to compete more effectively for potential learners and decrease our market share. We also expect to face increased competition as a result of new entrants to the online education market, including established colleges and universities that had not previously offered online education programs. Moreover, one or more of our competitors may obtain specialized accreditations that improve their competitive positions against us. We may not be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors and may face competitive pressures that could adversely affect our business or results of operations. For example, as the market continues to mature, certain of our competitors have begun to reduce tuition rates. We may therefore 28 Table of Contents be required to reduce our tuition or increase spending in response to competition in order to retain or attract learners or pursue new market opportunities. We may also face increased competition in maintaining and developing new marketing relationships with corporations, particularly as corporations become more selective as to which online universities they will encourage their current employees to attend and from which online universities they will hire prospective employees. These competitive factors could cause our enrollments, revenues and profitability to significantly decrease. We operate in a highly competitive market with rapid technological change, and we may not have the resources needed to compete successfully. Online education is a highly competitive market that is characterized by rapid changes in our learners’ technological requirements and expectations and evolving market standards. Competitors vary in size and organization from traditional colleges and universities to for-profit schools, corporate universities and software companies providing online education and training software. Each of these competitors may develop platforms or other technologies that are superior to the platform and technology we use. We may not have the resources necessary to acquire or compete with technologies being developed by our competitors, which may render our online delivery format less competitive or obsolete. System disruptions and vulnerability from security risks to our online computer networks could impact our ability to generate revenue and damage the reputation of Capella University, limiting our ability to attract and retain learners; we are currently migrating to a new enterprise resource planning system, and unplanned costs and/or decreases in productivity could adversely impact our financial results. The performance and reliability of our technology infrastructure is critical to our reputation and ability to attract and retain learners. Any system error or failure, or a sudden and significant increase in bandwidth usage, could result in the unavailability of our courseroom platform, damaging our ability to generate revenue. Our technology infrastructure could be vulnerable to interruption or malfunction due to events beyond our control, including natural disasters, terrorist activities and telecommunications failures. In the Fall of 2005 we completed the transfer of our learners to a new courseroom platform, Blackboard Learning System, formerly known as WebCT Vista, and we recently migrated this courseroom platform to a new server system. We are currently replacing our individual software applications with a comprehensive enterprise resource planning system. The implementation of this enterprise resource planning system is projected to continue into 2008. The enterprise resource planning system is a large-scale project to which our employees and contractors continue to devote substantial time. Our in-house expertise, including the expertise of our contractors, related to large-scale enterprise resource planning system implementations is limited, and an implementation of this scope by its nature gives rise to risk of system interruption or failure. Implementation of the enterprise resource planning system may result in unplanned and unbudgeted costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. During and after implementation, we may experience decreases in productivity in excess of planned levels as our employees transition to and begin to use the new system, and such decreases could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. During 2003 and 2004, we experienced intermittent failures of our courseroom platform that prevented learners from accessing their courses. We may experience additional interruptions or failures in our computer systems as a result of our ongoing implementation of our enterprise resource planning system, or our recently implemented new courseroom platform and server system. Any interruption to our technology infrastructure could have a material adverse effect on our ability to attract and retain learners and could require us to incur additional expenses to correct or mitigate the interruption. Our computer networks may also be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer hackers, computer viruses and other security problems. A user who circumvents security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in operations. As a result, we may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of these security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. We engage with multiple security assessment providers on a periodic basis to review and assess our security. We utilize this information to audit ourselves to ensure that we are continually 29 Table of Contents monitoring the security of our technology infrastructure. However, we cannot assure you that these security assessments and audits will protect our computer networks against the threat of security breaches. At present we derive a significant portion of our revenues and, after the full allocation of corporate overhead expenses, all of our operating income from our doctoral programs. Our origins are as an online university primarily for doctoral learners. Despite the expansion of our program offerings to include both master’s and bachelor’s degrees, our doctoral learner community remains an integral part of the success of our business model. At December 31, 2006, learners seeking doctoral, master’s and bachelor’s degrees represented 42%, 43% and 15%, respectively, of our enrollment. Due to the relative size, maturity and economics of our doctoral programs, for the year ended December 31, 2006, doctoral learners accounted for approximately $98.9 million, or 55%, of our revenues, and, after the full allocation of corporate overhead expenses, all of our operating income. Prior to the full allocation of corporate overhead expenses, our doctoral programs accounted for most of our operating income in these periods. If we were to experience any learner, regulatory, reputational, instructional or other event that adversely affected our doctoral offerings, our results of operations could be significantly and adversely affected. We recently transitioned our library services and resources in-house, and we will now have responsibility for providing library services directly to our learners. We have limited experience providing such services and any inability to do so effectively could limit our ability to attract and retain learners, and adversely affect our enrollments, revenues and operating profits. Our library services and resources have been provided by the Sheridan Libraries at The Johns Hopkins University under an agreement between The Johns Hopkins University and us. We provided notice of our intent to terminate that agreement in June 2006, and effective January 31, 2007, we completed the transition of those services and resources in-house. Most of the library services that were performed by The Johns Hopkins University are now performed in-house by our own employees. We have limited experience in providing library services in-house, and to do so we will have to hire personnel, including approximately six in-house librarians. Certain functions performed by The Johns Hopkins University, such as interlibrary loan coordination, have been outsourced to a third party university. It is possible that we may not be able to provide library services in-house and through the third party university as successfully or as cost-effectively as we are currently planning. If we are not able to successfully provide in-house certain of the library services formerly performed by The Johns Hopkins University, or if the third party university does not perform as expected, the quality of our overall program would suffer, which would in turn decrease our enrollments, revenues and operating profits. If we are not able to provide such services as cost-effectively as planned, our operating profits would be adversely affected. We may experience declines in our revenue and enrollment growth rates, and our growth may place a strain on our resources. We have experienced significant growth since we established our university in 1993. However, while we have continued to achieve growth in revenues and enrollment year-over-year, these growth rates have declined in recent periods and may continue to decline in the future. Specifically, we expect additional competitors to enter the online educational market and increased competition for online education offerings, including from colleges and universities that provide blended educational programs involving both classroom and online components. The growth that we have experienced in the past, as well as any future growth that we experience, may place a significant strain on our resources and increase demands on our management information and reporting systems and financial management controls. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively while maintaining appropriate internal controls, we may experience operating inefficiencies that could increase our costs and adversely affect our profitability and results of operations. 30 Table of Contents We rely on exclusive proprietary rights and intellectual property that may not be adequately protected under current laws, and we encounter disputes from time to time relating to our use of intellectual property of third parties. Our success depends in part on our ability to protect our proprietary rights. We rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secrets, domain names and agreements to protect our proprietary rights. We rely on service mark and trademark protection in the United States and select foreign jurisdictions to protect our rights to the marks “CAPELLA,” “CAPELLA EDUCATION COMPANY,” and “CAPELLA UNIVERSITY,” as well as distinctive logos and other marks associated with our services. We rely on agreements under which we obtain rights to use course content developed by faculty members and other third party content experts. We cannot assure you that these measures will be adequate, that we have secured, or will be able to secure, appropriate protections for all of our proprietary rights in the United States or select foreign jurisdictions, or that third parties will not infringe upon or violate our proprietary rights. Despite our efforts to protect these rights, unauthorized third parties may attempt to duplicate or copy the proprietary aspects of our curricula, online resource material and other content. Our management’s attention may be diverted by these attempts and we may need to use funds in litigation to protect our proprietary rights against any infringement or violation. We may encounter disputes from time to time over rights and obligations concerning intellectual property, and we may not prevail in these disputes. In certain instances, we may not have obtained sufficient rights in the content of a course. Third parties may raise a claim against us alleging an infringement or violation of the intellectual property of that third party. Some third party intellectual property rights may be extremely broad, and it may not be possible for us to conduct our operations in such a way as to avoid those intellectual property rights. Any such intellectual property claim could subject us to costly litigation and impose a significant strain on our financial resources and management personnel regardless of whether such claim has merit. Our general liability and cyber liability insurance may not cover potential claims of this type adequately or at all, and we may be required to alter the content of our classes or pay monetary damages, which may be significant. We may incur liability for the unauthorized duplication or distribution of class materials posted online for class discussions. In some instances, our faculty members or our learners may post various articles or other third party content on class discussion boards. We may incur liability for the unauthorized duplication or distribution of this material posted online for class discussions. Third parties may raise claims against us for the unauthorized duplication of this material. Any such claims could subject us to costly litigation and impose a significant strain on our financial resources and management personnel regardless of whether the claims have merit. Our general liability insurance may not cover potential claims of this type adequately or at all, and we may be required to alter the content of our courses or pay monetary damages. A reclassification of our adjunct faculty by authorities may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Adjunct faculty comprised approximately 86% of our faculty population at December 31, 2006. We classify our adjunct faculty as independent contractors, as opposed to employees. Because we classify our adjunct faculty as independent contractors, we do not withhold federal or state income or other employment related taxes, make federal or state unemployment tax or Federal Insurance Contributions Act, or FICA, payments or provide workers’ compensation insurance with respect to our adjunct faculty. The determination of whether adjunct faculty members are properly classified as independent contractors or as employees is based upon the facts and circumstances of our relationship with our adjunct faculty members. Federal or state authorities may challenge our classification as incorrect and assert that our adjunct faculty members must be classified as employees. In the event that we were to reclassify our adjunct faculty as employees, we would be required to withhold the appropriate taxes, make unemployment tax and FICA payments and pay for workers’ compensation insurance and additional payroll processing costs. If we had reclassified our adjunct faculty members as employees for 2006, we estimate our additional tax, workers’ compensation insurance and payroll 31 Table of Contents processing payments would have been approximately $1.6 million for that year. The amount of additional tax and insurance payments would increase in the future as the total amount we pay to adjunct faculty increases. In addition to these known costs, we could be subject to retroactive taxes and penalties, which may be significant, by federal and state authorities which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to retain our key personnel or hire and retain the personnel we need to sustain and grow our business. Our success to date has depended, and will continue to depend, largely on the skills, efforts and motivation of our executive officers, who generally have significant experience with our company and within the education industry. Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Stephen Shank, is 63 years old and has been our Chief Executive Officer since he founded Capella in 1991. Mr. Shank is also the Chancellor of Capella University. To facilitate an orderly development and transition of leadership, our board of directors has been engaged in ongoing succession planning. Mr. Shank has advised the board that at such point as clear Chief Executive Officer succession capability has been established, and no earlier than 2008, he would relinquish his duties as Chief Executive Officer. As one means to facilitate Mr. Shank’s eventual transition, the board established the position of Chief Operating Officer. Our success also depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified faculty, school directors, administrators and corporate management. Due to the nature of our business, we face significant competition in attracting and retaining personnel who possess the skill sets we seek. In addition, key personnel may leave us and subsequently compete against us. We do not carry life insurance on our key personnel for our benefit. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, or our failure to attract and retain other qualified and experienced personnel on acceptable terms, could impair our ability to successfully sustain and grow our business, which could in turn materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Our learner population and revenues could decrease if the government tuition assistance offered to U.S. Armed Forces personnel is reduced or eliminated, if the tuition discounts which we offer to U.S. Armed Forces personnel are reduced or eliminated, or if our informal arrangements with any military bases deteriorate. Active duty members of the U.S. Armed Forces are eligible to receive tuition assistance from the government, which they may use to pursue post-secondary degrees. We offer tuition discounts generally ranging from 10% to 15% to all members of the U.S. Armed Forces and immediate family members of active duty U.S. Armed Forces personnel. For the year ended December 31, 2006, approximately 18% of our learners received a U.S. Armed Forces tuition discount. During 2006, we provided approximately $3.0 million of such discounts. We also have non-exclusive agreements with various educational institutions of the U.S. Armed Forces pursuant to which we have agreed to accept credits toward a Capella University degree from certain military educational programs. These agreements generally may be terminated by either party upon 30 to 45 days notice. Additionally, we have informal arrangements with several military bases pursuant to which the bases make information about Capella University available to interested service members. Each of these informal arrangements is not binding on either party and either party could end the arrangement at any time. If our informal arrangement with any military base deteriorates or ends, our efforts to recruit learners from that base will be impaired. In the event that governmental tuition assistance programs to active duty members of the U.S. Armed Forces are reduced or eliminated, if our tuition discount program which we offer U.S. Armed Forces personnel and their immediate family members is reduced or eliminated, or if our informal arrangements with any military base deteriorates, this could materially and adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Our expenses may cause us to incur operating losses if we are unsuccessful in achieving growth. Our expenses are based, in significant part, on our estimates of future revenues and are largely fixed in the short term. As a result, we may be unable to adjust our spending in a timely manner if our revenues fall short of our expectations. Accordingly, any significant shortfall in revenues in relation to our expectations 32 Table of Contents would have an immediate and material adverse effect on our profitability. In addition, as our business grows, we anticipate increasing our operating expenses to expand our program offerings, marketing initiatives and administrative organization. Any such expansion could cause material losses to the extent we do not generate additional revenues sufficient to cover those expenses. Seasonal and other fluctuations in our results of operations could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In reviewing our results of operations, you should not focus on quarter-to-quarter comparisons. Our results in any quarter may not indicate the results we may achieve in any subsequent quarter or for the full year. Our revenues and operating results normally fluctuate as a result of seasonal variations in our business, principally due to changes in enrollment. Learner population varies as a result of new enrollments, graduations and learner attrition. While our number of enrolled learners has grown in each sequential quarter over the past three years, the number of enrolled learners has been proportionally greatest in the fourth quarter of each respective year. A significant portion of our general and administrative expenses do not vary proportionately with fluctuations in revenues. We expect quarterly fluctuations in operating results to continue as a result of seasonal enrollment patterns. Such patterns may change, however, as a result of new program introductions, the timing of seminars and events and increased enrollments of learners. These fluctuations may result in volatility or have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Our current success and future growth depend on the continued acceptance of the Internet and the corresponding growth in users seeking educational services on the Internet. Our business relies on the Internet for its success. A number of factors could inhibit the continued acceptance of the Internet and adversely affect our profitability, including: • inadequate Internet infrastructure; • security and privacy concerns; and • the unavailability of cost-effective Internet service and other technological factors. If Internet use decreases, or if the number of Internet users seeking educational services on the Internet does not increase, our business may not grow as planned. Government regulations relating to the Internet could increase our cost of doing business, affect our ability to grow or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business. The increasing popularity and use of the Internet and other online services has led and may lead to the adoption of new laws and regulatory practices in the United States or foreign countries and to new interpretations of existing laws and regulations. These new laws and interpretations may relate to issues such as online privacy, copyrights, trademarks and service marks, sales taxes, fair business practices and the requirement that online education institutions qualify to do business as foreign corporations or be licensed in one or more jurisdictions where they have no physical location or other presence. New laws, regulations or interpretations related to doing business over the Internet could increase our costs and materially and adversely affect our enrollments, revenues and results of operations. An increase in interest rates could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain learners. Approximately 71% of our revenues (calculated on a cash basis) for the year ended December 31, 2006, were derived from Title IV programs, which involve subsidized student borrowing. Additionally, many of our learners finance their education through private, unsubsidized borrowing. Interest rates have reached relatively low levels in recent years, creating a favorable borrowing environment for learners. However, interest rates are currently increasing. Much of the financing our learners receive is tied to floating interest rates. In addition, in the event Congress decreases the amount available for federal student aid, our learners may have to pay higher, unsubsidized interest rates. Therefore, any future increase in interest rates will result in a corresponding increase in educational costs to our existing and prospective learners, which could result in a significant 33 Table of Contents reduction in our learner population and revenues. Higher interest rates could also contribute to higher default rates with respect to our learners’ repayment of their education loans. Higher default rates may in turn adversely impact our eligibility to participate in some or all Title IV programs, which could result in a significant reduction in our learner population and our profitability. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. Volatility in the market price of our common stock may prevent you from being able to sell your shares at or above the price you paid for your shares. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly for various reasons, which include: • our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry; • the public’s reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts who track our common stock or the stocks of other companies in our industry; • changes in our number of enrolled learners; • new laws or regulations or new interpretations of laws or regulations applicable to our business; • seasonal variations in our learner population; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; • changes in general conditions in the U.S. and global economies or financial markets, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to such events; • litigation involving our company or investigations or audits by regulators into the operations of our company or our competitors; and • sales of common stock by our directors, executive officers and significant shareholders. In addition, in recent years, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industry. The changes frequently appear to occur without regard to the operating performance of these companies. The price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our company, and these fluctuations could materially reduce our stock price. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could lower our stock price. We may sell additional shares of common stock in future public offerings. We may also issue additional shares of common stock to finance future acquisitions. As of December 31, 2006, we had 16,002,371 outstanding shares of common stock. This number includes 4,600,000 shares registered in our initial public offering, which are freely tradable in the public market. 10,817,587 shares of our common stock, or 67.6% of our total outstanding shares, are restricted from immediate resale under the federal securities laws and lock-up agreements entered into between certain of our shareholders and the underwriters of our initial public offering, but may be sold into the market in the near future. These shares will become available for sale at various times following the expiration of the lock-up agreements which, without the prior consent of Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, is 180 days (subject to an extension of no more than 34 days as a result of an earnings release by us or the occurrence of material news or a material event relating to us) after November 9, 2006, subject to volume limitations and manner-of-sale requirements under Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933 (the Securities Act). However, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC may release all or a portion of these shares subject to lock-up agreements at any time without notice. The period immediately following expiration of the lock-up agreements may experience relatively higher levels of selling activity. In addition, we have an effective S-8 registration statement under the Securities Act pursuant to which we have registered 4,192,890 shares of our common stock issuable under our stock incentive plans. As a result, 34 Table of Contents shares issued under our stock incentive plans covered by the S-8 registration statement are eligible for resale in the public market without restriction, subject to certain Rule 144 limitations applicable to affiliates and, to the extent applicable, the lock-up agreements described above. Certain of our existing shareholders are parties to a registration rights agreement with us relating to 4,652,062 shares of our common stock. Under that agreement, these shareholders will have the right, after the expiration of the lock-up period, to require us to effect the registration of these shares. In addition, if we propose to register, or are required to register following the exercise of a “demand” registration right as described in the previous sentence, any of our shares of common stock under the Securities Act, all the shareholders who are parties to the registration rights agreement (and Legg Mason Wood Walker, Incorporated, with respect to 266,326 shares that it purchased pursuant to warrants that contained registration rights) will be entitled to include these shares of common stock in that registration. In accordance with the terms of our employee stock purchase plan, we may offer to our employees shares of our common stock under our employee stock purchase plan at a per share price below the then-current market price of our common stock. The discount would give our employees incentives to purchase shares of our common stock under the employee stock purchase plan. We have not yet implemented the employee stock purchase plan, but should we do so, we would also likely file an S-8 registration statement to register up to 450,000 shares of our common stock thereunder. Our employees would then be able to sell all or some of the shares purchased under the employee stock purchase plan in the open market. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock (including shares issued in connection with an acquisition and shares issued under our stock incentive plans and employee stock purchase plan), or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Our executive officers, directors and principal existing shareholders own a large percentage of our voting stock, which may allow them to collectively control substantially all matters requiring shareholder approval and, in the case of certain of our principal shareholders, have other unique rights that may afford them access to our management. Our directors, executive officers and principal existing shareholders beneficially owned approximately 10,441,898 shares, or 62.1%, of our common stock as of December 31, 2006. Our directors and executive officers beneficially owned in the aggregate approximately 6,475,834 shares, or 38.5%, of our common stock as of such date, including approximately 2,511,724 shares, or 15.5%, of our common stock beneficially owned by Stephen Shank, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of our Board of Directors. Our principal existing shareholders consist of Forstmann Little & Co. Equity Partnership-VI, L.P. (Forstmann VI), Forstmann Little & Co. Equity Partnership-VII, L.P. (Forstmann VII) and Forstmann Little & Co. Subordinated Debt and Equity Buyout Partnership-VIII, L.P. (Forstmann VIII), which we refer to as the “Forstmann Little entities” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, Cherry Tree Ventures IV, L.P., Cherry Tree Core Growth Fund, L.L.L.P. and InfoPower L.L.L.P., which we refer to as the “Cherry Tree entities” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, TCV V, L.P. and TCV Member Fund L.P., which we refer to as the “entities affiliated with Technology Crossover Ventures” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, Maveron Equity Partners 2000, L.P., Maveron Equity Partners 2000-B, L.P. and MEP 2000 Associates LLC, which we refer to as the “Maveron entities” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and Insight-Salmon River LLC, Insight Venture Partners IV, L.P., Salmon River Capital I LLC, Salmon River CIP LLC, Salmon River Capital II, L.P., Insight Venture Partners IV (Fund B), L.P., Insight Venture Partners IV (Co-Investors), L.P. and Insight Venture Partners (Cayman) IV, L.P., which we refer to as the “Salmon River and Insight entities” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our principal existing shareholders beneficially owned approximately 7,248,721 shares, or 45.3%, of our common stock as of December 31, 2006. In addition to their shareholdings, Forstmann VI also has the right to designate one person for election to our board of directors. Moreover, Forstmann VI, Maveron Equity Partners 2000, L.P., TH Lee, Putnam Investment Trust — TH Lee, Putnam Emerging Opportunities Portfolio and TCV V, L.P. also have the right to inspect our books and records, to visit and inspect any of our properties and to discuss our affairs, finances, and accounts with our officers, lawyers, and accountants. In addition, the Forstmann 35 Table of Contents Little entities also have the right to consult and advise management on our significant business issues, including management’s proposed annual operating plans. Accordingly, if some or all of these shareholders decided to act in concert, they could control us through their ability to determine the outcome of the election of our directors, to amend our articles of incorporation and bylaws and to take other actions requiring the vote or consent of shareholders, including mergers, going private transactions and other extraordinary transactions, and the terms of any of these transactions. The ownership positions of these shareholders may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control or a change in the composition of our board of directors. These shareholders may also use their contractual rights, including access to management, and their large ownership position to address their own interests, which may be different from those of our other shareholders. Our articles of incorporation, bylaws, Minnesota law and regulations of state and federal education agencies may discourage takeovers and business combinations that our shareholders might consider in their best interests. Anti-takeover provisions of our articles of incorporation, bylaws, Minnesota law and regulations of state and federal education agencies could diminish the opportunity for shareholders to participate in acquisition proposals at a price above the then-current market price of our common stock. For example, while we have no present plans to issue any preferred stock, our board of directors, without further shareholder approval, may issue shares of undesignated preferred stock and fix the powers, preferences, rights and limitations of such class or series, which could adversely affect the voting power of your shares. In addition, our bylaws provide for an advance notice procedure for nomination of candidates to our board of directors that could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control. Further, as a Minnesota corporation, we are subject to provisions of the Minnesota Business Corporation Act, or MBCA, regarding “business combinations,” which can deter attempted takeovers in certain situations. The approval requirements of the Department of Education, our regional accrediting agency and state education agencies for a change in control transaction could also delay, deter or prevent a transaction that would result in a change in control. We may, in the future, consider adopting additional anti-takeover measures. The authority of our board to issue undesignated preferred or other capital stock and the anti-takeover provisions of the MBCA, as well as other current and any future anti-takeover measures adopted by us, may, in certain circumstances, delay, deter or prevent takeover attempts and other changes in control of the company not approved by our board of directors. Being a public company will increase our expenses and administrative workload. As a public company with listed equity securities since our November 2006 initial public offering, we must comply with new laws, regulations and requirements, certain provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, related SEC regulations and requirements of The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. with which we were not required to comply as a private company. Complying with these statutes, regulations and requirements will occupy a significant amount of the time of our board of directors and management and will increase our costs and expenses. We estimate that incremental annual public company costs will be between $2.5 million and $3.0 million. We have recently or will need to: • create or expand the roles and duties of our board of directors, our board committees and management; • institute more comprehensive compliance and internal audit functions; • evaluate and maintain our system of internal control over financial reporting, and report on management’s assessment thereof, in compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the SEC and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board; • prepare and distribute periodic public reports in compliance with our obligations under the federal securities laws; • implement more comprehensive internal policies, such as those relating to disclosure controls and procedures and insider trading; 36 Table of Contents • involve and retain to a greater degree outside counsel and accountants in the above activities; • hire investor relations support personnel; and • hire additional personnel to perform external reporting and internal accounting functions, including tax accounting functions. If we fail to take some of these actions, in particular with respect to our internal audit and accounting functions and our compliance function, our ability to timely and accurately report our financial results could be impaired. In addition, we also expect that being a public company subject to these rules and regulations will make it more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit and compensation committees, and qualified executive officers. We will be exposed to risks relating to evaluations of controls required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are in the process of evaluating our internal controls systems to allow management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, our internal control over financial reporting. We are required to comply with Section 404 with respect to our fiscal year ending December 31, 2007. With the assistance of outside consultants who specialize in preparing companies to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, we began our process evaluation and subsequent remediation work in the second half of 2004. In connection with our evaluation, we have identified a number of control deficiencies, some of which have been remedied. In 2005 and 2006, we continued our remediation work and expanded our process evaluation through internal process reviews. However, we cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations. Furthermore, upon completion of this process, we may identify control deficiencies of varying degrees of severity under applicable SEC and Public Company Accounting Oversight Board rules and regulations that remain unremediated. As a public company, we will be required to report, among other things, control deficiencies that constitute a “material weakness” or changes in internal controls that materially affect, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, internal controls over financial reporting. A “material weakness” is a significant deficiency, or combination of significant deficiencies that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. If we fail to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities such as the SEC or The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc., and if we fail to remedy any material weakness, our financial statements may be inaccurate, we may face restricted access to the capital markets, and our stock price may be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 