Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to the Extensive Regulation of Our Business If we fail to comply with the extensive regulatory requirements for our business, we could face significant restrictions on our operations and monetary penalties, including loss of access to federal loans and grants for our learners on which we are substantially dependent. As a provider of higher education, we are subject to extensive U.S. regulation on both the federal and state levels. In particular, the Higher Education Act, as reauthorized by the Higher Education Opportunity Act in August 2008, and related regulations impose significant regulatory scrutiny on Capella University, and all other higher education institutions that participate in the various federal student financial aid programs under Title IV of the Higher Education Act (Title IV programs). In 2011, we derived approximately 79% of our revenues (calculated on a cash basis) from Title IV programs, administered by the U.S. Department of Education. A significant percentage of our learners rely on the availability of Title IV program funds to cover their cost of attendance at Capella University and related educational expenses. These regulatory requirements cover virtually all phases of our operations, including educational program offerings, facilities, instructional and administrative staff, administrative procedures, marketing and recruiting, financial operations, processing refund payments to the U.S. Department of Education for withdrawn learners, commencement of new educational programs, and changes in our corporate structure and ownership. The Higher Education Act (HEA), as reauthorized, mandates specific regulatory responsibilities for each of the following components of the higher education regulatory triad: (1) the U.S. federal government through the U.S. Department of Education; (2) independent accrediting agencies recognized by the U.S. Secretary of Education; and (3) state education regulatory bodies. The regulations, standards and policies of these regulatory agencies frequently change and are subject to interpretation, particularly where they are crafted for traditional schools rather than our on-line academic delivery model. Changes in, or new interpretations of, applicable laws, regulations, or standards could have a material adverse effect on our accreditation, authorization to operate in various states, permissible activities, receipt of funds under Title IV programs, or costs of doing business. We cannot predict how all of the requirements applied by these agencies will be interpreted or whether we will be able to comply with these requirements in the future. If we are found to be in noncompliance with any of these regulations, standards or policies, any one of the relevant regulatory agencies may be able to do one or more of the following: • impose monetary fines or penalties; • limit or terminate our operations or ability to grant degrees and diplomas; • restrict or revoke our accreditation, licensure or other approval to operate; • limit, suspend or terminate our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs or state financial aid programs; • require repayment of funds received under Title IV programs or state financial aid programs; • require us to post a letter of credit with the U.S. Department of Education; • subject us to heightened cash monitoring by the U.S. Department of Education; • transfer us from the U.S. Department of Education’s advance system of receiving Title IV program funds to its reimbursement system, under which a school must disburse its own funds to learners and document the learners’ eligibility for Title IV program funds before receiving such funds from the U.S. Department of Education; 26 Table of Contents • subject us to other civil or criminal penalties; and/or • subject us to other forms of censure. In addition, in some circumstances of noncompliance or alleged noncompliance, we may be subject to qui tam lawsuits under the Federal False Claims Act. In these actions, private plaintiffs seek to enforce remedies under the Act on behalf of the U.S. and, if successful, are entitled to recover their costs and to receive a portion of any amounts recovered by the U.S. in the lawsuit. These lawsuits can be prosecuted by a private plaintiff in respect of some action taken by us, even if the Department of Education does not agree with plaintiff’s theory of liability. Any of the penalties, injunctions, restrictions or other forms of censure listed above could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we lose our Title IV eligibility, we would experience a dramatic and adverse decline in revenue and we would be unable to continue our business as it currently is conducted. Rulemaking by the U.S. Department of Education could materially and adversely affect our business. In November 2009, the U.S. Department of Education convened two negotiated rulemaking teams related to Title IV program integrity issues and foreign school issues. The resulting program integrity rules promulgated in October 2010 and June 2011 address numerous topics. The most significant for our business are the following: • Modification of the standards relating to the payment of incentive compensation to employees involved in student recruitment and enrollment; • Implementation of standards for state authorization of institutions of higher education; • Adoption of a definition of “gainful employment” for purposes of the requirement of Title IV student financial aid that a program of study offered by a proprietary institution prepare students for gainful employment in a recognized occupation; and, • Expansion of the definition of misrepresentation, relating to the Department’s authority under the Higher Education Act, as reauthorized, to suspend or terminate an institution’s participation in Title IV programs if the institution engages in substantial misrepresentation of the nature of its educational program, its financial charges, or the employability of graduates, and expansion of the sanctions that the Department may impose for engaging in a substantial misrepresentation. The Department published final program integrity regulations on October 29, 2010, with most of the final rules effective July 1, 2011, including some reporting and disclosure rules related to gainful employment. On June 13, 2011, the Department published final regulations on metrics for gainful employment programs effective July 1, 2012. In addition to the rules, the Department routinely issues “Dear Colleague Letters” to provide sub-regulatory guidance on certain areas of final regulations. The guidance is provided to assist institutions with understanding the regulations in these areas, and does not make any changes to the regulations. The Department has issued numerous Dear Colleague Letters to provide further information on other provisions of the program integrity regulations and created a website dedicated to gainful employment. The program integrity rules require a large number of reporting and operational changes. We believe we have substantially complied with the new reporting and disclosure requirements that were effective July 1, 2011, and we expect to be in substantial compliance with the remaining requirements by the respective effective dates. However, because of the scale and complexity of our educational programs, we may be unable to fully develop, test and implement all of the necessary modifications to our information management systems and administrative processes by the required dates. We may be subject to administrative or other sanctions if we are unable to comply with these reporting and disclosure requirements on a timely basis. In addition, these changes, individually or in combination, may impact our student enrollment, persistence and retention in ways that we cannot now predict. 27 Table of Contents On May 5, 2011, the Department announced its intention to establish additional negotiated rulemaking committees to prepare proposed regulations under the Higher Education Act, as reauthorized. Three public hearings were conducted in May 2011 at which interested parties suggested issues that should be considered for action by the negotiating committees. The Department also conducted roundtable discussions to inform policy in the areas of teacher preparation and college completion. On September 27, 2011, the Department published a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (“NPRM”) to amend the regulations for institutional eligibility under the Higher Education Act, as reauthorized, and to streamline the application and approval process for new programs, as required by the October 2010 rules on gainful employment. After the public comment period ends on November 14, 2011, the Department will review and consider responses to the NPRM before publishing final regulations that would be effective by July 2013. Incentive Compensation A school participating in Title IV programs may not pay any commission, bonus or other incentive payments to any person involved in student recruitment or admissions or awarding of Title IV program funds, if such payments are based in any part, directly or indirectly, on success in enrolling students or obtaining student financial aid. The law and regulations governing this requirement do not establish clear criteria for compliance in all circumstances. Previously, there were twelve safe harbors that defined specific types of compensation that were deemed to constitute permissible incentive compensation. Prior to the effective date of the new program integrity regulations, we relied on several of these safe harbors to ensure that our compensation and recruitment practices complied with the applicable requirements. In the final regulations adopted by the Department, the twelve safe harbors were eliminated and, in lieu of the safe harbors, some of the relevant concepts relating to the incentive compensation limitations are defined. These changes increase the uncertainty about what constitutes incentive compensation and which employees are covered by the regulation. This makes the development of effective and compliant performance metrics more difficult to establish. In response to the Department’s concern about the impact of compensation structures that relied on the safe harbors and in order to enhance the admissions process for our students, we developed a new structure, which we believe complies with the Department’s new rule, and implemented it on a broad scale during 2010. In connection with this, we eliminated enrollment results as a component of compensation for our admissions personnel effective January 1, 2011. State Authorization In the U.S., institutions that participate in Title IV programs must be authorized to operate by the appropriate postsecondary regulatory authority in each state where the institution conducts activities that require authorization, or be exempt from such regulatory authorization, usually based on recognized accreditation. As of December 31, 2011, Capella University is authorized to operate in 18 states. In certain states, Capella University is qualified to operate without specific state regulatory approval due to available state exemptions that permit such operation if certain programmatic or other accreditation criteria are met. Under the new program integrity rules adopted by the U.S. Department of Education effective July 1, 2011, we may be required to seek and obtain specific regulatory approval to operate in some of those states or evidence such approval is not required. If we experience a delay in obtaining or cannot obtain these approvals or evidence such approvals are not necessary, our business could be adversely impacted. As a result, the manner in which the Department’s final regulation will apply to our business, and the impact of such regulation on our business, is uncertain. If we are unable to operate in a manner that would preserve Title IV eligibility for our learners in impacted states, our business could be materially and adversely impacted. 28 Table of Contents Gainful Employment The requirements for reporting information relating to our programs to the Department and to our students will substantially increase our administrative burdens, particularly during the implementation phase. These reporting and the other procedural changes in the new rules could impact student enrollment, persistence and retention in ways that we cannot now predict. For example, if our reported program information compares unfavorably with other reporting educational institutions, it could adversely impact demand for our programs. Although the final rules regarding gainful employment metrics provide opportunities to address program deficiencies before the loss of Title IV eligibility, the continuing eligibility of our educational programs for Title IV funding is at risk due to factors beyond our control, such as changes in the actual or deemed income level of our graduates, changes in student borrowing levels, increases in interest rates, changes in the federal poverty income level relevant for calculating discretionary income, changes in the percentage of our former students who are current in repayment of their student loans, and other factors. In addition, even though deficiencies in the metrics may be correctable on a timely basis, the disclosure requirements to students following a failure to meet the standards may adversely impact enrollment in that program and may adversely impact the reputation of our educational institution. The exposure to these external factors may reduce our ability to confidently offer or continue certain types of programs for which there is market demand, thus impacting our ability to maintain or grow our business. Substantial Misrepresentation The Higher Education Act prohibits an institution that participates in Title IV programs from engaging in “substantial misrepresentation” of the nature of its educational program, its financial charges, or the employability of its graduates. The U.S. Department of Education’s program integrity regulations effective July 1, 2011 expand the definition of misrepresentation and expand the sanctions that the Department may impose for engaging in a substantial misrepresentation. Under the new rules, a misrepresentation is any statement made by the institution or a third party that provides educational programs, marketing, advertising, recruiting, or admissions services to the institution, that is false, erroneous or has the likelihood or tendency to deceive or confuse. A substantial misrepresentation is any misrepresentation on which the person to whom it was made could reasonably be expected to rely, or has reasonably relied, to that person’s detriment. Considering the breadth of the definition of “substantial misrepresentation,” it is possible that despite our efforts to prevent such misrepresentations, our employees or service providers may make statements that could be construed as substantial misrepresentations. As a result, we may face complaints from students and prospective students over statements made by us and our agents throughout the enrollment, admissions and financial aid process, as well as throughout attendance at Capella University, which would expose us to increased risk of enforcement action and applicable sanctions or other penalties and increased risk of private qui tam actions under the Federal False Claims Act. Under the new rules, if the Department determines that an institution has engaged in substantial misrepresentation, the Department may revoke an institution’s program participation agreement, impose limitations on the institution’s participation in Title IV programs, deny applications from the institution for approval of new programs or locations or other matters, or initiate proceedings to fine the institution or limit, suspend, or terminate its eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. If the Department determines that statements made by us or on our behalf are in violation of the new regulations, we could be subject to sanctions and other liability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Action by the U.S. Congress to revise the laws governing the federal student financial aid programs or reduce funding for those programs could reduce our learner population and increase our costs of operation. The U.S. Congress must periodically reauthorize the Higher Education Act and annually determine the funding level for each Title IV program. In 2008, the Higher Education Act was reauthorized through September 30, 2013 by the Higher Education Opportunity Act. Changes to the Higher Education Act, including changes in eligibility and funding for Title IV programs, are likely to occur in subsequent reauthorizations, but we cannot predict the scope or substance of any such changes. 29 Table of Contents In April 2011, Congress permanently eliminated year-round Pell Grant awards beginning with the 2011-2012 award year as part of the fiscal year 2011 Continuing Resolution spending bill. We believe this change, which did not reduce the maximum annual grant level, will have only a nominal impact on our business. However, because the Pell Grant program is one of the largest non-defense discretionary spending programs in the federal budget, it is a target for reduction as Congress addresses budget deficits. A reduction in the maximum annual Pell Grant amount or changes in eligibility could result in increased student borrowing, which would make it more difficult for us to comply with other important regulatory requirements, and could negatively impact enrollment. In August 2011, President Obama signed into law the Budget Control Act of 2011, which provides for an increase in the federal government borrowing limit and spending reductions in two phases. The first phase imposes various spending cuts, including the elimination of the partial in-school interest subsidy for graduate student loans beginning July 1, 2012. The cost of borrowing will increase for graduate students who defer payment of interest while enrolled, which could adversely impact enrollment. The second phase would require Congress to develop legislation to achieve future deficit reduction. The outcome of this process is highly uncertain. If the committee does not achieve the required level of deficit reduction, an across-the-board cutting mechanism known as sequestration will take effect beginning with the federal fiscal year 2013. Although the Pell Grant program currently is exempt from the sequestration process, other federal programs and services that could impact our business would be included. The Administration recently announced an initiative on college affordability that would apply to all institutions of higher education. While the specifics are not clear at this time, actions taken by the Administration, Congress and the Department could have a negative impact on our business. In addition to Congress’ focus on the federal government’s funding challenges, in recent years, there has been increased focus by Congress on the role that proprietary educational institutions play in higher education. In June 2010, the Education and Labor Committee of the U.S. House of Representatives held a hearing to examine the manner in which accrediting agencies review higher education institutions’ policies on credit hours and program length. This followed a report from the Office of the Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Education in December 2009 criticizing the accreditation of a proprietary school by a regional accrediting body and requesting that the Department review the appropriateness of its recognition of the accrediting body. Also in June 2010, the U.S. Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (“HELP Committee”) held the first in a series of hearings to examine the proprietary education sector. At a subsequent hearing in August 2010, the Government Accountability Office (“GAO”) presented a report of its review of various aspects of the proprietary sector, including recruitment practices and the degree to which proprietary institutions’ revenue is composed of Title IV funding. Following the August hearing, Sen. Tom Harkin, the Chairman of the HELP Committee, requested a broad range of detailed information from 30 proprietary institutions, including Capella University. We have been and intend to continue being responsive to the requests of the HELP Committee. In September 2010, the HELP Committee held a third hearing and Sen. Harkin’s staff released a memorandum entitled “The Return on the Federal Investment in For-Profit Education: Debt Without a Diploma.” Sen. Harkin has held subsequent hearings and roundtable discussions, most recently on July 21, 2011, and we believe that future hearings may be held. On September 22, 2011, Sen. Tom Carper, the Chairman of the Senate Homeland Security and Government Affairs Subcommittee on Federal Financial Management, Government Information, Federal Services and International Security, held a hearing on “Improving Educational Outcomes for Our Military and Veterans,” focusing on the quality of education for the military and veterans population and the treatment of such funding for purposes of the 90/10 Rule calculation that, if enacted, would adversely impact our 90/10 Rule percentage. Sen. Carper suggested a follow-up roundtable discussion. In addition, other Congressional hearings or roundtable discussions are expected to be held regarding various aspects of the education industry that may affect our business. We cannot predict what legislation, if any, may emanate from these Congressional committee hearings or what impact any such legislation might have on the proprietary education sector and our business in particular. 30 Table of Contents The confluence of the increasing scrutiny in Congress of the proprietary education sector and the unprecedented budget deficits increases the likelihood of legislation that will adversely impact our business. For example, Congress could extend the elimination of the in-school interest subsidy to undergraduate students or to undergraduate students in proprietary institutions, reduce the maximum amount of or change the eligibility standards for student loans and/or Pell Grants or make other material changes in Title IV programs driven by policy considerations, economic considerations or both. Any action by Congress that significantly reduces Title IV program funding, whether through across-the-board funding reductions, sequestration or otherwise, or materially impacts the eligibility of our institutions or students to participate in Title IV programs would have a material adverse effect on our enrollment, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Congressional action could also require us to modify our practices, such as limiting the amount we spend on marketing activities, in ways that could otherwise reduce our revenues or increase our administrative costs and reduce our operating income, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If Congress significantly reduced the amount of available Title IV program funding, we would attempt to arrange for alternative sources of financial aid for our students, which may include lending funds directly to our students, but private sources would not be able to provide as much funding to our students on as favorable terms as is currently provided by Title IV. In addition, private organizations could require us to guarantee all or part of this assistance and we might incur other additional costs. For these reasons, private, alternative sources of student financial aid would only partly offset, if at all, the impact on our business of reduced Title IV program funding. We would lose our eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs if the percentage of our revenues derived from those programs is too high, in which event we could not conduct our business in its present form. A requirement of the Higher Education Act, as reauthorized by the Higher Education Opportunity Act, commonly referred to as the “90/10 Rule”, applies only to proprietary institutions of higher education, which includes Capella University. Under this rule, a proprietary institution will be ineligible to participate in Title IV programs if for any two consecutive fiscal years it derives more than 90% of its cash basis revenue, as defined in the rule, from Title IV programs. An institution that derives more than 90% of its revenue from Title IV programs for any single fiscal year will be automatically placed on provisional certification for two fiscal years and will be subject to possible additional sanctions determined to be appropriate under the circumstances by the U.S. Department of Education in the exercise of its broad discretion. While the Department has broad discretion to impose additional sanctions on such an institution, there is only limited precedent available to predict what those sanctions might be, particularly in the current regulatory environment. The Department could specify any additional conditions as a part of the provisional certification and the institution’s continued participation in Title IV programs. These conditions may include, among other things, restrictions on the total amount of Title IV program funds that may be distributed to learners attending the institution; restrictions on programmatic and geographic expansion; requirements to obtain and post letters of credit; additional reporting requirements to include additional interim financial reporting; or any other conditions imposed by the Department. Should an institution be subject to a provisional certification at the time that its current program participation agreement expired, the effect on recertification of the institution or continued eligibility in Title IV programs pending recertification is uncertain. An institution that derives more than 90% of its revenue from Title IV programs for two consecutive fiscal years will be ineligible to participate in Title IV programs for at least two fiscal years. Capella University is required to calculate this percentage at the end of each fiscal year; as of December 31, 2011, our percentage was 79%. If an institution is determined to be ineligible to participate in Title IV programs due to the 90/10 Rule, any disbursements of Title IV program funds while ineligible must be repaid to the Department. 31 Table of Contents The 90/10 Rule percentage for Capella University has increased over the past several fiscal years and we expect further increases in the near term. These increases are primarily attributable to the following factors: • Increased student loan limits. The Ensuring Continued Access to Student Loans Act (ECASLA) of 2008 increased the annual loan limits on federal unsubsidized student loans by $2,000 for the majority of our learners enrolled in bachelor’s degree programs, and also increased the aggregate loan limits (over the course of a learner’s education) on total federal student loans for certain learners. The increase in student loan limits has increased the amount of Title IV program funds available to and used by our learners to pay tuition, fees and other costs, which increased the proportion of our revenue deemed to be from Title IV programs. The Higher Education Opportunity Act provided temporary relief from the impact of these loan limit increases by allowing any amounts received between July 1, 2008 and July 1, 2011 that are attributable to the increased annual loan limits to be excluded from the 90/10 rule calculation. The implementing regulations for this temporary relief and other aspects of the 90/10 rule were published in final form on October 29, 2009. The effective date of the new regulations was July 1, 2010. Capella University elected to exclude amounts attributable to the increased annual loan limits from its 90/10 calculation. As this waiver expired on July 1, 2011, the percentage of our cash basis revenues derived from Title IV increased. • Increase in Pell Grants. The eligibility for and maximum amount of Pell Grants have increased in each of the past three years. In addition, the Higher Education Opportunity Act of 2008 further increased the availability of Pell Grants by permitting additional disbursements for learners who are continuously enrolled. These changes further increase the amount of Title IV program funds available to and used by our learners to pay tuition, fees and other costs, which, in turn, has further increased the proportion of our revenue deemed to be from Title IV programs. Based on our most recent trends, we do not expect the 90/10 Rule percentage for Capella University to exceed 90% for fiscal year 2012. However, the 90/10 Rule percentage for Capella University could increase in the future depending on the degree to which our various initiatives are effective, the impact of future changes in our enrollment mix, and regulatory and other factors outside our control, including any reduction in government tuition assistance for military personnel, including veterans, or changes in the treatment of such funding for purposes of the 90/10 Rule calculation. Currently, tuition assistance for military personnel, including veterans, is not treated as Title IV revenue under the 90/10 Rule and, therefore, based on the prescribed order of application per the regulations, a majority of such funding is included in the “10%” portion of the rule calculation. A reduction in the availability of this type of funding, or a change (through either legislation or executive order) that requires that it be treated in the same manner as Title IV funding under the 90/10 Rule, would increase our 90/10 Rule percentage. Any necessary further efforts to reduce the 90/10 Rule percentage for Capella University, especially if the percentage exceeds 90% for a fiscal year, may involve taking measures which reduce our revenue, increase our operating expenses, or both, in each case perhaps significantly. If the 90/10 Rule is not changed to provide relief for institutions like Capella University, we may be required to make structural changes to our business in order to remain in compliance. These changes may materially alter the manner in which we conduct our business and materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. An increase in our student loan default rates could result in the loss of eligibility to participate in Title IV programs, which would materially and adversely affect our business. To remain eligible to participate in Title IV programs, educational institutions must maintain student loan cohort default rates below specified levels. The U.S. Department of Education reviews an educational institution’s cohort default rate annually as a measure of administrative capability. Each cohort is the group of students who first enter into student loan repayment during a federal fiscal year (ending September 30). The currently applicable cohort default rate for each cohort is the percentage of the students in the cohort who default on their student loans prior to the end of the following federal fiscal year, which represents a two-year measuring 32 Table of Contents period. The cohort default rates are published by the Department approximately 12 months after the end of the measuring period. Thus, in September 2011 the Department published the two-year cohort default rates for the 2009 cohort, which measured the percentage of students who first entered into repayment during the year ended September 30, 2009 and defaulted prior to September 30, 2010. As discussed below, the measurement period for the cohort default rate has been increased to three years starting with the 2009 cohort, and the three-year cohort default rates for the 2009 cohort will be published by the Department in September 2012. If an educational institution’s two-year cohort default rate exceeds 10% for any one of the three preceding years, it must delay for 30 days the release of the first disbursement of U.S. federal student loan proceeds to first time borrowers enrolled in the first year of an undergraduate program. If an institution’s two-year cohort default rate exceeds 25% for three consecutive years or 40% for any given year, it will be ineligible to participate in Title IV programs and, as a result, its students would not be eligible for federal student financial aid. The July 2010 elimination of the Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP), under which private lenders originated and serviced federally guaranteed student loans, and the resulting migration of all federal student loans to the Federal Direct Loan Program under which the federal government lends directly to students, could adversely impact loan repayment rates and our cohort default rates, if the federal government is less effective in promoting timely repayment of federal student loans than the private lenders were under the FFELP. If we are not recertified to participate in Title IV programs by the Department of Education or if the Department otherwise suspends or terminates our certification, we would lose eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. Capella University’s current certification to participate in Title IV programs expired on December 31, 2008. We timely submitted our Title IV recertification application to the Department of Education in September 2008 and our eligibility continues on a month-to-month basis until the Department of Education issues its decision on the application. We have been advised by Department of Education that we will not receive our renewal until after the Office of Inspector General audit is concluded. Generally, the recertification process includes a review by the Department of Education of an institution’s educational programs and locations, administrative capability, financial responsibility, and other oversight categories. The Department of Education may also review our continued certification to participate in Title IV programs in the event we expand our activities in certain ways, such as opening an additional location or, in certain cases, if we modify the academic credentials that we offer. The Department of Education could limit, suspend or terminate our participation in Title IV programs for violations of the Higher Education Act or Title IV regulations. Title IV eligibility is critical to the continued operation of our business. If Capella University is not recertified or otherwise becomes ineligible to participate in Title IV federal student financial aid programs, we could not conduct our business as it is currently conducted and it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Congress may change the law or reduce funding for Title IV programs, which could reduce our learner population, revenues and profit margin. Congress reviews and determines appropriations for Title IV programs on an annual basis through the budget and appropriations process. Any action by Congress that significantly reduces funding for Title IV programs or the ability of our school or learners to participate in these programs could reduce the ability of certain of our learners to finance their education, and could thereby have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Congressional action may also require us to modify our practices in ways that could increase our administrative costs and reduce our profit margin, which could also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If the U.S. Congress significantly reduced the amount of available Title IV program funding, we would attempt to arrange for alternative sources of financial aid for our learners. We cannot assure that one or more private 33 Table of Contents organizations would be willing or able to provide loans to learners attending Capella University, or that the interest rate and other terms of such loans would be as favorable as for Title IV program loans or acceptable to our learners, and therefore our enrollment could be materially impacted. In addition, private organizations could require us to guarantee all or part of this assistance and we might incur other additional costs. If we provided more direct financial assistance to our learners, we would incur additional costs and assume increased credit risks, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If any regulatory audit, investigation or other proceeding finds us not in compliance with the numerous laws and regulations applicable to the postsecondary education industry, we may not be able to successfully challenge such finding and our business could suffer. Due to the highly regulated nature of the postsecondary education industry, we are subject to audits, compliance reviews, inquiries, complaints, investigations, claims of non-compliance and lawsuits by federal and state governmental agencies, regulatory agencies, accrediting agencies, present and former students and employees, shareholders and other third parties, any of whom may allege violations of any of the regulatory requirements applicable to us. If the results of any such claims or actions are unfavorable to us, we may be required to pay monetary fines or penalties, be required to repay funds received under Title IV programs or state financial aid programs, have restrictions placed on or terminate our schools’ or programs’ eligibility to participate in Title IV programs or state financial aid programs, have limitations placed on or terminate our schools’ operations or ability to grant degrees and certificates, have our schools’ accreditations restricted or revoked, or be subject to civil or criminal penalties. Any one of these sanctions could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and result in the imposition of significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate. The Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Education has an ongoing compliance audit of Capella University which may result in repayment of Title IV funds, interest, fines, penalties, remedial action and damage to our reputation in the industry. The Office of Inspector General (OIG) of the U.S. Department of Education is responsible for, among other things, promoting the effectiveness and integrity of the Department of Education’s programs and operations. With respect to educational institutions that participate in the Title IV funding programs, the OIG conducts its work primarily through compliance audits and investigations. An OIG compliance audit typically focuses upon whether an institution administers federal funds in accordance with applicable rules and regulations, whereas an investigation typically indicates a concern regarding potential fraud or abuse involving federal funds. In our case, the OIG has conducted a compliance audit (and not an investigation) of Capella University. The period under audit is the Title IV award years of 2002-2003, 2003-2004 and 2004-2005 (with each award year commencing on July 1st). The audit commenced on April 10, 2006 and we subsequently provided the OIG with periodic information, responded to follow up inquiries and facilitated site visits and access to our records. The OIG completed its field work in January 2007 and we received a draft audit report on August 23, 2007. Capella University provided written comments on the draft audit report to the OIG on September 25, 2007. On March 7, 2008, the OIG’s final report was issued to the Acting Chief Operating Officer (COO) for Federal Student Aid (FSA), which is responsible for primary oversight of the Title IV funding programs. The Company responded to the final report on April 8, 2008. In 2009, the Company provided FSA staff with certain requested information for financial aid years 2002-2003 through 2007-2008. The FSA will subsequently issue final findings and requirements for Capella University. The FSA may take certain actions, including requiring that we refund certain federal student aid funds, modify our Title IV administration procedures and pay fines or penalties. The audit primarily focused on whether we properly calculated the amount of Title IV funds required to be returned for learners who withdrew from Capella University without providing an official notification of 34 Table of Contents withdrawal and without engaging in the course room prior to such withdrawal. In its final report, the OIG identified learners for whom it believes proper returns of Title IV funds were not made. Based on the final audit report, the most significant potential financial exposure from the audit relates to repayments to the Department of Education that could be required if the FSA concludes that the Company did not properly calculate the amount of Title IV funds required to be returned for learners that withdrew from Capella University without providing an official notification of such withdrawal and without engaging in the course room prior to such withdrawal. If the FSA determines that Capella University improperly withheld any portion of these funds, Capella University would be required to return the improperly withheld funds. We and the OIG have differing interpretations of the relevant regulations regarding what constitutes engagement in the unofficial withdrawal context. As we interpret the engagement requirement, we currently estimate that for the three year audit period, and for the subsequent aid years through 2007-2008, the total amount of Title IV funds not returned—for learners who withdrew without providing official notification and without engaging as required by the relevant regulations—was approximately $1.0 million including interest, but not including fines and penalties. As part of our internal process of continuously evaluating and attempting to improve our policies and procedures, prior to the initiation of the OIG audit we had already begun modifying our policies and procedures for determining whether a learner is engaged in course room activity. We developed these policies and procedures during spring 2006 and fully implemented them for the 2006-2007 financial aid year. Based on our review and interpretation of the applicable regulations, we believe that these revised policies and procedures appropriately measure whether or not a learner has engaged prior to withdrawal without providing official notification. However, the OIG is currently interpreting the relevant regulations to require a different measure of engagement in academic activity in such circumstances. If this difference of interpretation is ultimately resolved in a manner adverse to us, then the total amount of Title IV funds not returned for learners who withdrew without providing official notification would be greater than the amount we have currently estimated. The audit also focused on our policies and procedures for disbursing Title IV funding to learners, and to a lesser extent on our communication to our learners of our satisfactory academic progress policy, our exit counseling for federal student loan recipients, and our review of learners’ financial aid histories prior to disbursing Title IV funding. See “Regulatory Environment—Regulation of Federal Student Financial Aid Programs—Compliance Reviews” for information about the OIG audit staff’s inquiries. Because of the ongoing nature of the OIG audit process, we can neither know nor predict the ultimate extent of the final audit findings, or the potential liability or remedial actions that might result. Such findings and related remedial action may have an adverse impact on our reputation in the industry, our cash flows and results of operations and our ability to recruit learners, and may have an adverse effect on our stock price. The possible effects of a finding of a regulatory violation (including refunds, fines, penalties and limitations, conditions, suspension or termination of our participation in Title IV programs) are described more fully in “Regulatory Environment—Regulation of Federal Student Financial Aid Programs—Potential Effect of Regulatory Violations.” If we fail to maintain our institutional accreditation or if our institutional accrediting body loses recognition by the U.S. Department of Education, we could lose our ability to participate in Title IV programs and lose our authorization to operate in a number of states. Capella University is accredited by The Higher Learning Commission of the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools, one of six regional accrediting agencies recognized by the Secretary of the Department of Education as a reliable indicator of educational quality. Accreditation by a recognized accrediting agency is required for an institution to become and remain eligible to participate in Title IV programs. In February 2008, we received a letter of reaffirmation from The Higher Learning Commission, effective through 2015. To remain accredited we must continuously meet certain criteria and standards relating to, among other things, performance, governance, institutional integrity, educational quality, faculty, administrative capability, resources and financial stability. Failure to meet any of these criteria or standards could result in the loss of accreditation at the discretion of The Higher Learning Commission. 35 Table of Contents If the U.S. Department of Education ceased to recognize The Higher Learning Commission for any reason, Capella University would not be eligible to participate in Title IV programs beginning 18 months after the date such recognition ceased unless The Higher Learning Commission was again recognized or our institutions were accredited by another accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education. In December 2009, the OIG requested the U.S. Department of Education review the appropriateness of the U.S. Department of Education’s recognition of The Higher Learning Commission as an accrediting body, following the OIG’s unfavorable review of The Higher Learning Commission’s initial accreditation of a non-traditional, for-profit postsecondary educational institution. We cannot predict the outcome of the U.S. Department of Education’s review of The Higher Learning Commission’s recognition. Regardless of the outcome of the U.S. Department of Education’s review of The Higher Learning Commission, the focus by the OIG and the U.S. Department of Education on the process pursuant to which The Higher Learning Commission accredited a non-traditional, for-profit postsecondary educational institution may make the accreditation review process more challenging for Capella University during future review processes. If this occurs, we may have to incur additional costs and/or curtail or modify certain program offerings in order to maintain our accreditation, which could increase our costs, reduce our enrollment and materially and adversely affect our business. The loss of accreditation would, among other things, render our learners and us ineligible to participate in Title IV programs, reduce the marketability of a Capella degree, affect our authorization to operate in certain states and decrease learner demand. If Capella University became ineligible to participate in Title IV programs, we could not conduct our business as it is currently conducted and it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If Capella University does not maintain its registration in Minnesota, it may not operate or participate in Title IV programs or operate in a number of other states. A school that grants degrees, diplomas or certificates must be authorized by the relevant education agency of the state in which it is located. Capella University is deemed to be located in the State of Minnesota and is registered with the Minnesota Office of Higher Education. Minnesota registration is also required for our learners to be eligible to receive funding under Title IV programs. Such registration may be lost or withdrawn if Capella University fails to submit renewal applications and other required submissions to the state in a timely manner, or if Capella University fails to comply with material requirements under Minnesota statutes and rules for continued registration. Loss of state registration of Capella University from the Minnesota Office of Higher Education would terminate our ability to provide educational services as well as our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. Capella must also remain in good standing with the Minnesota Office of Higher Education to obtain and maintain authorization or licensure to operate in states outside of Minnesota. Should our registration with the Minnesota Office of Higher Education be terminated, our ability to operate in other states would also cease, and it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to sanctions if we fail to correctly calculate and timely return Title IV program funds for learners who withdraw before completing their educational course. The Higher Education Act, as reauthorized, and U.S. Department of Education regulations require us to calculate refunds of unearned Title IV program funds disbursed to students who withdraw from their educational course before completing it. If refunds are not properly calculated or timely paid, we will be subject to sanctions imposed by the U.S. Department of Education, which could increase our cost of regulatory compliance and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 36 Table of Contents Our business could be harmed if we experience a disruption in our ability to process student loans under the Federal Direct Loan Program. We collected the substantial majority of our fiscal year 2011 total consolidated net revenue from receipt of Title IV financial aid program funds, principally from federal student loans under the Federal Direct Loan Program (FDLP). Any processing disruptions by the U.S. Department of Education may impact our students’ ability to obtain student loans on a timely basis. If we experience a disruption in our ability to process student loans through the FDLP, either because of administrative challenges on our part or the inability of the Department to process the volume of direct loans on a timely basis, and it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A failure to demonstrate “financial responsibility” may result in the loss of eligibility by Capella University to participate in Title IV programs or require the posting of a letter of credit to maintain eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. To participate in Title IV programs, an eligible institution must satisfy specific measures of financial responsibility prescribed by the Department of Education, or post a letter of credit in favor of the Department of Education and possibly accept other conditions on its participation in Title IV programs. The Department of Education may also apply such measures of financial responsibility to the operating company and ownership entities of an eligible institution and, if such measures are not satisfied by the operating company or ownership entities, require the institution to post a letter of credit in favor of the Department of Education and possibly accept other conditions on its participation in Title IV programs. Any obligation to post a significant letter of credit could increase our costs of regulatory compliance. If Capella University is unable to secure a letter of credit, it would lose its eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. In addition to the obligation to post a letter of credit, an institution that is determined by the Department of Education not to be financially responsible can be transferred from the “advance” system of payment of Title IV funds to cash monitoring status or to the “reimbursement” system of payment. Limitations on, or termination of, Capella University’s participation in Title IV programs as a result of its failure to demonstrate financial responsibility would limit Capella University’s learners’ access to Title IV program funds, which could significantly reduce our enrollments and revenues and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A failure to demonstrate “administrative capability” may result in the loss of Capella University’s eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. Department of Education regulations specify extensive criteria an institution must satisfy to establish that it has the requisite “administrative capability” to participate in Title IV programs. These criteria require, among other things, that the institution: • comply with all applicable Title IV program regulations; • have capable and sufficient personnel to administer the federal student financial aid programs; • have acceptable methods of defining and measuring the satisfactory academic progress of its learners; • not have cohort default debt rates above specified levels; • have various procedures in place for safeguarding federal funds; • not be, and not have any principal or affiliate who is, debarred or suspended from federal contracting or engaging in activity that is cause for debarment or suspension; • provide financial aid counseling to its learners; • refer to the Department of Education’s Office of Inspector General any credible information indicating that any applicant, learner, employee or agent of the institution has been engaged in any fraud or other illegal conduct involving Title IV programs; 37 Table of Contents • submit in a timely manner all reports and financial statements required by the regulations; and • not otherwise appear to lack administrative capability. If an institution fails to satisfy any of these criteria or comply with any other Department of Education regulations, the Department of Education may: • require the repayment of Title IV funds; • transfer the institution from the “advance” system of payment of Title IV funds to cash monitoring status or to the “reimbursement” system of payment; • place the institution on provisional certification status; or • commence a proceeding to impose a fine or to limit, suspend or terminate the participation of the institution in Title IV programs. If we are found not to have satisfied the Department of Education’s “administrative capability” requirements we could be limited in our access to, or lose, Title IV program funding, which would significantly reduce our enrollment and revenues and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our failure to comply with regulations of various states could result in actions taken by those states that would have a material adverse effect on our enrollments, revenues and results of operations. Capella University is authorized to operate and to grant degrees by the applicable state agency of certain states where such authorization is required. Compliance with these state requirements is also necessary for students in the respective states to participate in Title IV programs. The loss of such authorization in one or more states would render students resident in those states ineligible to participate in Title IV programs and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Loss of authorization in one or more states could increase the likelihood of additional scrutiny and potential loss of operating and/or degree granting authority in other states in which we operate, which would further impact our business. Recently, we have experienced heightened regulatory and licensure-related pressures impacting certain programs in a few states, including New York and North Carolina. If these pressures continue in the future, it could have a material impact on our enrollments, revenue, results of operations and cash flow. If we fail to comply with state licensing or authorization requirements, we may be subject to the loss of state licensure or authorization. Loss of authorization in one or more states could increase the likelihood of additional scrutiny and potential loss of operating and/or degree granting authority in other states in which we operate, which would further impact our business. The inability of our graduates to obtain licensure in their chosen professional fields of study could reduce our enrollments and revenues, and potentially lead to litigation that could be costly to us. Certain of our graduates seek professional licensure in their chosen fields following graduation. Their success in obtaining licensure depends on several factors, including the individual merits of the learner, but also may depend on whether the institution and the program were approved by the state or by a professional association, whether the program from which the learner graduated meets all state requirements and whether the institution is accredited. Certain states have refused to license learners who graduate from programs that do not meet specific types of accreditation, residency or other state requirements. Specifically, certain states have refused to license learners from particular Capella University programs due to the fact that the program did not meet one or more of the state’s specific licensure requirements or were not approved by the state for purposes of professional licensure. We have had to respond to claims brought against us by former learners as a result of such 38 Table of Contents refusal. Certain states have denied our graduates professional licensure because the Capella University program from which they graduated did not have a sufficient number of residency hours, did not include a state-approved clinical program, did not satisfy state coursework requirements, or was not accredited by a specific third party (such as the American Psychological Association). The state requirements for licensure are subject to change, and we may not immediately become aware of changes that may impact our learners in certain states. In the event that one or more states refuses to recognize our learners for professional licensure in the future based on factors relating to our institution or programs, the potential growth of our programs would be negatively impacted, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, we could be exposed to litigation that would force us to incur legal and other expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to Our Business Ongoing and contemplated changes to our business may adversely affect our ability to grow or maintain profitability, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our ability to grow or maintain our profitability depends on a number of factors, including our ability to obtain and maintain regulatory approvals, our ability to attract and retain learners, our ability to maintain operating margins, our ability to recruit and retain high quality academic and administrative personnel and competitive factors. In addition, growth may place a significant strain on our resources and increase demands on our management information and reporting systems, financial management controls, and personnel. It cannot be assured that we will have adequate capacity to accommodate growth or that we will be able to manage further growth effectively. Failure to do so could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In order to increase our focus on improving the learner experience and attracting learners who are more likely to persist in our programs, we have recently implemented various measures that are likely to adversely affect our growth and profitability, at least in the near term, including the following: • Upgrading our learning and data platforms; • Adopting new tools to better support learners’ education financing decisions, such as our Responsible Borrowing Calculator, which is designed to help learners calculate the amount of learner borrowing necessary to achieve their educational objectives and to motivate them to not incur unnecessary student loan debt; • Transitioning our marketing approaches to more effectively identify learners who have the ability to succeed in our educational programs, including reduced emphasis on the utilization of third parties for lead generation; • Requiring all learners who enroll in Capella University without transfer credits to complete an academic readiness pre-assessment; and • Better aligning our enrollment, admissions and other employees to our learners’ success by redefining roles and responsibilities, resetting individual objectives and measures and implementing new compensation structures, including eliminating all enrollment factors in our admissions personnel compensation structure effective January 1, 2011. See “Risks Related to the Extensive Regulation of our Business—Rulemaking by the U.S. Department of Education could materially and adversely affect our business” for additional detail. Each of these changes could adversely impact our business, especially in the near term. In combination, these changes may have a more pronounced adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, particularly in the near term. 39 Table of Contents Our financial performance depends in part on our ability to keep pace with current market needs, build our brand, update and expand the content of existing programs and develop new programs and specializations on a timely basis and in a cost-effective manner. The updates and expansions of our existing programs and the development of new programs and specializations may not be accepted by existing or prospective learners or the employers of our graduates. If we cannot respond to changes in market requirements, our business may be adversely affected. During 2011, we shifted to more of a brand-driven marketing strategy in order to decrease our reliance on aggregators. This shift significantly lowered our inquiry volume, and if we are unable to improve our conversion rates and retain enrolled learners, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows would be adversely impacted. Even if we are able to develop acceptable new programs, we may not be able to introduce these new programs as quickly as learners require or as quickly as our competitors introduce competing programs. In addition, we may be unable to obtain specialized accreditations or licensures that may make certain programs desirable to learners. To offer a new academic program, we may be required to obtain appropriate federal, state and accrediting agency approvals, which may be conditioned or delayed in a manner that could significantly affect our growth plans. In addition, the new program approval procedures under the recent Department of Education rulemaking may considerably impact our process and timing for new program launches. If we are unable to respond adequately to changes in market requirements due to regulatory or financial constraints, rapid technological changes or other factors, our ability to attract and retain learners could be impaired, the rates at which our graduates obtain jobs involving their fields of study could suffer, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. Establishing new academic programs or modifying existing programs requires us to make investments in management and capital expenditures, incur marketing expenses and reallocate other resources. We may have limited experience with the courses in new areas and may need to modify our systems and strategy or enter into arrangements with other educational institutions to provide new programs effectively and profitably. If we are unable to increase the number of learners, or offer new programs in a cost-effective manner, or are otherwise unable to manage effectively the operations of newly established academic programs, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Certain of our programs have specialized accreditations and/or state approvals; our business may be adversely impacted if we are unable to obtain such accreditations or approvals in the future, or if such accreditations or approvals impose requirements that impact other aspects of our business. Certain of our programs, especially at the master’s and doctorate level, have specialized accreditations which are desirable to our learners and may be important to learners obtaining licensure in their chosen field of study. In addition, certain of our education-related programs are approved by the Minnesota Board of Teaching or other state oversight authorities. If we are unable to obtain or renew such accreditations or approvals in the future, our programs will be less attractive to prospective learners and our current learners in such programs will be negatively impacted. In addition, these specialized accrediting bodies or state agencies may impose requirements which adversely impact our business, such as limiting or closing enrollments to certain programs, imposing specific faculty to learner ratios or dictating the way in which we name and market related programs. These situations could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our financial performance depends on our ability to continue to develop awareness among, and attract and retain, working adult learners. Building awareness of Capella University and the programs we offer among working adult learners is critical to our ability to attract prospective learners. If we are unable to successfully market and advertise our educational programs, Capella University’s ability to attract and enroll prospective learners in such programs 40 Table of Contents could be adversely affected, and consequently, our ability to increase revenue or maintain profitability could be impaired. It is also critical to our success that we convert these prospective learners to enrolled learners in a cost-effective manner and that these enrolled learners remain active in our programs. Some of the factors that could prevent us from successfully enrolling and retaining learners in our programs include: • the emergence of more successful competitors; • factors related to our marketing, including the costs of Internet advertising and broad-based branding campaigns; • performance problems with our online systems; • failure to maintain accreditation; • learner dissatisfaction with our services and programs, including with our customer service and responsiveness; • adverse publicity regarding us, our competitors, or online or for-profit education in general; • price reductions by competitors that we are unwilling or unable to match; • a decline in the acceptance of online education or our degree offerings by learners or current and prospective employers; • increased regulation of online education, including in states in which we do not have a physical presence; • a decrease in the perceived or actual economic benefits that learners derive from our programs; and • litigation or regulatory investigations that may damage our reputation. If we are unable to continue to develop awareness of Capella University and the programs we offer, and to enroll and retain learners, our enrollments would suffer and our ability to increase revenues and maintain profitability would be significantly impaired. Strong competition in the postsecondary education market, especially in the online education market, could decrease our market share, increase our cost of acquiring learners and put downward pressure on our tuition rates. Postsecondary education, especially in the online market, is highly competitive. We compete with traditional public and private two-year and four-year colleges and other for-profit schools, as well as corporate universities and software companies providing online education and training software. Each of these competitors may offer programs similar to ours at lower tuition levels as a result of government subsidies, government and foundation grants, tax-deductible contributions and other financial sources not available to for-profit institutions. In addition, some of our competitors, including both traditional colleges and universities and other for-profit schools, have substantially greater name recognition and financial and other resources than we have, which may enable them to compete more effectively for potential learners and decrease our market share. It is also possible that some of our competitors may develop platforms or other technologies that are superior to the platform and technology we use and we may not have the resources necessary to acquire or compete with these technologies. We also expect to face increased competition as a result of new entrants to the online education market, including established colleges and universities that had not previously offered online education programs. Moreover, one or more of our competitors may obtain specialized accreditations that improve their competitive positions against us. We may not be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors and may face competitive pressures that could adversely affect our business or results of operations. For example, as the market continues to mature, certain of our competitors have begun to reduce tuition rates. We may therefore be required to reduce 41 Table of Contents our tuition or increase spending in response to competition to retain or attract learners or pursue new market opportunities. In addition, certain of our competitors have recently announced plans to target markets and learners that we have historically served, and these actions could increase costs and decrease our enrollments and revenue. We may also face increased competition in maintaining and developing new marketing relationships with corporations, particularly as corporations become more selective as to which online universities they will encourage their current employees to attend and from which online universities they will hire prospective employees. These competitive factors could adversely affect our enrollments, revenue, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we fail to maintain adequate systems and processes to detect and prevent fraudulent activity in learner enrollment and financial aid, our business could be adversely impacted. As we continue to grow, we are susceptible to an increased risk of fraudulent activity by outside parties with respect to learner enrollment and student financial aid programs. While we believe past incidents of fraudulent activity have been relatively isolated, we cannot be certain that our systems and processes will always be adequate in the face of increasingly sophisticated and ever-changing fraud schemes. The potential for outside parties to perpetrate fraud in connection with the award and disbursement of Title IV program funds, including as a result of identity theft, may be heightened due to our nature as an online education provider. We must maintain systems and processes to identify and prevent fraudulent applications for enrollment and financial aid. Efforts we take to identify and prevent fraudulent applications may also impose additional processes on potential legitimate learners, as well, which could adversely affect our enrollments, revenue, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Department of Education requires institutions that participate in Title IV programs to refer to the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Education any credible information indicating that any applicant, employee, third-party servicer, or agent of the institution that acts in a capacity that involves administration of the Title IV programs has been engaged in any fraud or other illegal conduct involving Title IV programs. If the systems and processes that we have established to detect and prevent fraud are inadequate, the Department of Education may find that we do not satisfy its “administrative capability” requirements. This could limit our access to, or cause us to lose, Title IV program funding, which would adversely affect our enrollment, revenues, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, our ability to participate in Title IV programs is conditioned on our maintaining accreditation by an accrediting agency that is recognized by the Secretary of Education. Any significant failure to adequately detect fraudulent activity related to learner enrollment and financial aid could cause us to fail to meet our accrediting agencies’ standards. Furthermore, under the HEA, accrediting agencies that evaluate institutions that offer distance learning programs, as we do, must require such institutions to have processes through which the institution establishes that a learner who registers for a distance education program is the same learner who participates in and receives credit for the program. Failure to meet our accrediting agencies’ standards could result in the loss of accreditation at the discretion of our accrediting agencies, which could result in a loss of our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs and would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We rely on third party vendors, and the outsourcing increases our operational and compliance risk. We rely on third party vendors to provide services to us and our learners. While we monitor and assess the service of these vendors, it is possible their service and response levels may be less than ours, and that they may not have adequate business continuity planning. In addition, using third party vendors increases compliance risk, if they do not adequately protect learners’ sensitive data or personally identifiable information, or if they do not comply with applicable federal or state regulations applicable to our business. In the event of any of those or related actions or omissions by third party vendors, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows would be adversely impacted. 42 Table of Contents If we are unable to successfully conclude our pending securities class action litigation, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. On November 5, 2010, a purported securities class action lawsuit captioned Police Pension Fund of Peoria, Individually, and on Behalf of All Others Similarly Situated v. Capella Education Company, J. Kevin Gilligan and Lois M. Martin, was filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Minnesota. The complaint names us and certain senior executives as defendants, and alleges we and the named defendants made false or misleading public statements about our business and prospects during the time period from February 16, 2010 through August 13, 2010 in violation of federal securities laws, and that these statements artificially inflated the trading price of our common stock to the detriment of shareholders who purchased shares during that time. The plaintiff seeks compensatory damages for the purported class. Since that time, substantially similar complaints making similar allegations against the same defendants for the same purported class period were filed with the federal court. Pursuant to the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, on April 13, 2011, the Court appointed Oklahoma Firefighters Pension and Retirement System as lead plaintiff and Abraham, Fruchter and Twersley, LLP, as lead counsel. A consolidated amended complaint, captioned Oklahoma Firefighters Pension and Retirement System, Individually and on Behalf of All Others Similarly Situated, v. Capella Education Company, J. Kevin Gilligan, Lois M. Martin and Amy L. Ronneberg, was filed on June 27, 2011. We filed a motion to dismiss the plaintiff’s complaint on September 2, 2011, and a hearing on that motion was held December 21, 2011. The District Court will rule on the motion at some time in the future. Discovery in this case has not yet begun. Because of the many questions of fact and law that may arise, the outcome of this legal proceeding is uncertain at this point. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this litigation and expect to incur significant defense costs and other expenses in connection with it. Such costs and expenses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and the market price of our common stock. We may be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs in excess of our insurance coverage related to these claims, any of which could have a further material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. An adverse outcome of this litigation could also materially and adversely affect our reputation, licenses, accreditation, and eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. System disruptions and vulnerability from security risks to our online computer networks could impact our business and financial performance and damage the reputation of Capella University, limiting our ability to attract and retain learners. The performance and reliability of our technology infrastructure is critical to our reputation and ability to attract and retain learners. Any system error or failure, or a sudden and significant increase in bandwidth usage, could result in the unavailability of our course room platform, damaging our business and financial performance and the reputation of Capella University. Our technology infrastructure could be vulnerable to interruption or malfunction due to events beyond our control, including natural disasters, terrorist activities and telecommunications failures. We have only limited redundancies in our core computer network infrastructure, which is concentrated in a single geographic area. If we experience a catastrophic failure or unavailability for any reason of our principal data center, we may need to replicate the function of this data center at our existing remote data facility or elsewhere, which may require expensive and time-consuming equipping and restoring activities. The disruption from such an event could significantly impact our operations and have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may experience interruptions or failures in our computer systems as a result of ongoing maintenance of and enhancements to our enterprise resource planning system, course room platform, and/or server system. Any interruption to our technology infrastructure could have a material adverse effect on our ability to attract and retain learners and could require us to incur additional expenses to correct or mitigate the interruption. Our computer networks may also be vulnerable to cyber attacks such as unauthorized access, computer hackers, computer viruses and other security problems and system disruptions. We engage with multiple security 43 Table of Contents assessment providers on a periodic basis to review and assess our security. We utilize this information to audit ourselves to ensure that we are continually monitoring the security of our technology infrastructure, but it may still be vulnerable to threats. A user who circumvents security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in operations. As a result, we may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of these security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The personal information that we collect may be vulnerable to breach, theft or loss that could adversely affect our reputation and operations. Possession and use of personal information in our operations subjects us to risks and costs that could harm our business. Capella University collects, uses and retains large amounts of personal information regarding our learners and their families, including social security numbers, tax return information, personal and family financial data and credit card numbers. We also collect and maintain personal information of our employees in the ordinary course of our business. Some of this personal information is held and managed by certain of our vendors. Although we use security and business controls to limit access and use of personal information, a third party may be able to circumvent those security and business controls, which could result in a breach of learner or employee privacy. In addition, errors in the storage, use or transmission of personal information could result in a breach of learner or employee privacy. Possession and use of personal information in our operations also subjects us to legislative and regulatory burdens that could require notification of data breaches and restrict our use of personal information. We cannot guarantee that a breach, loss or theft of personal information will not occur. A breach, theft or loss of personal information regarding our learners and their families or our employees that is held by us or our vendors could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and results of operations and result in liability under state and federal privacy statutes and legal actions by state attorneys, general and private litigants, and any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may experience increased costs, reduced margins and an increase in bad debt expense if the proportion of our learners who are enrolled in our bachelor’s degree programs continues to increase. Our bachelor’s degree programs are currently growing at a faster rate than our doctoral or master’s degree programs. This bachelor’s degree growth has caused the proportion of our learners enrolled in bachelor’s degree programs to increase, while the proportion enrolled in our doctoral programs has decreased. This mix shift may continue in the future, and we may experience certain negative consequences, such as decreased revenue per learner, higher cost per new enrollment, lower retention rates and/or higher learner services costs, higher default rates, an increase in our learner loan cohort default rate, an increase in bad debt expense, an increase in the percentage of our revenue derived from Title IV funding under the 90/10 Rules, more limited ability to implement tuition price increases and other effects that may adversely affect our operating results. Similarly we could experience the same impact from other changes in our business model, such as a potential change to permit a deferred payment schedule for certain of our learners, or a change in the timing of financial aid disbursements. We rely on exclusive proprietary rights and intellectual property that may not be adequately protected under current laws, and we encounter disputes from time to time relating to our use of intellectual property of third parties. Our success depends in part on our ability to protect our proprietary rights. We rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secrets, domain names and agreements to protect our proprietary rights. We rely on service mark and trademark protection in the United States and select foreign jurisdictions to protect our rights to the marks “CAPELLA,” “CAPELLA EDUCATION COMPANY,” and “CAPELLA UNIVERSITY,” as well as distinctive logos and other marks associated with our services. We rely on 44 Table of Contents agreements under which we obtain rights to use course content developed by faculty members and other third-party content experts. We cannot guarantee that these measures will be adequate, that we have secured, or will be able to secure, appropriate protections for all of our proprietary rights in the United States or select foreign jurisdictions, or that third parties will not infringe upon or violate our proprietary rights. Despite our efforts to protect these rights, unauthorized third parties may attempt to duplicate or copy the proprietary aspects of our curricula, online resource material and other content. Our management’s attention may be diverted by these attempts and we may need to use funds in litigation to protect our proprietary rights against any infringement or violation, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. We may encounter disputes from time to time over rights and obligations concerning intellectual property, and we may not prevail in these disputes. In certain instances, we may not have obtained sufficient rights in the content of a course. Third parties may raise a claim against us alleging an infringement or violation of the intellectual property of that third party. Some third party intellectual property rights may be extremely broad, and it may not be possible for us to conduct our operations in such a way as to avoid those intellectual property rights. Any such intellectual property claim could subject us to costly litigation and impose a significant strain on our financial resources and management personnel regardless of whether such claim has merit. Our general liability and cyber liability insurance may not cover potential claims of this type adequately or at all, and we may be required to alter the content of our classes or pay monetary damages or license fees to third parties, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Legislation pending before Congress may make it easier and more desirable for employees to form unions, which may increase our costs. The Employee Free Choice Act is currently pending before Congress. If passed into law, this Act would make it easier for employees to organize unions and force companies to submit to binding arbitration for first contracts with newly formed unions. In addition, penalties for firing union backers would be significantly increased. Any efforts by our employees or faculty to form a union, whether or not successful, could increase our costs, which could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our learner population and revenues could decrease if the government tuition assistance offered to U.S. Armed Forces personnel is reduced or eliminated, if the tuition discounts which we offer to U.S. Armed Forces personnel are reduced or eliminated, or if our informal arrangements with any military bases deteriorate. Active duty members of the U.S. Armed Forces are eligible to receive tuition assistance from the government, which they may use to pursue postsecondary degrees. We offer tuition discounts generally ranging from 10% to 15% to all members of the U.S. Armed Forces and immediate family members of active duty U.S. Armed Forces personnel. As of December 31, 2011, learners receiving a military discount comprised approximately 14% of total enrollment. We also have non-exclusive agreements with various educational institutions of the U.S. Armed Forces pursuant to which we have agreed to accept credits toward a Capella University degree from certain military educational programs. These agreements generally may be terminated by either party upon 30 to 45 days notice. Additionally, we have informal arrangements with several military bases pursuant to which the bases make information about Capella University available to interested service members. Each of these informal arrangements is not binding on either party and either party could end the arrangement at any time. If our informal arrangement with any military base deteriorates or ends, our efforts to recruit learners from that base will be impaired. In the event that governmental tuition assistance programs to active duty members of the U.S. Armed Forces are reduced or eliminated, if our tuition discount program which 45 Table of Contents we offer U.S. Armed Forces personnel and their immediate family members is reduced or eliminated, or if our informal arrangements with any military base deteriorates, this could materially and adversely affect our revenues, results of operations and cash flows. If we do not maintain existing, and develop additional, relationships with employers, our future growth may be impaired. We currently have relationships with large employers to provide their employees with the opportunity to obtain degrees through us while continuing their employment. These relationships are an important part of our strategy as they provide us with a steady source of potential working adult learners for particular programs and also serve to increase our reputation among high-profile employers. If we are unable to develop new relationships, or if our existing relationships deteriorate or end, our efforts to seek these sources of potential working adult learners will be impaired, and this could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business may be adversely affected by a further economic slowdown or recession in the U.S. or abroad or by an economic recovery in the U.S. The U.S. and much of the world are facing a challenging economic environment. In addition, homeowners in the U.S. have experienced an unprecedented reduction in wealth due to the decline in residential real estate values across much of the country. These events, particularly unemployment and residential real estate financing challenges, may reduce the number of courses taken simultaneously by each of our learners or otherwise reduce the demand for our programs and colloquia among learners, including among learners who receive financial aid and determine they are unwilling to incur additional debt during current economic conditions, regardless of financial aid availability. Further, these events may reduce the willingness of employers to sponsor educational opportunities for their employees. To the extent the economic downturn has increased demand for our programs, a subsequent economic recovery may eliminate this effect and reduce such demand as fewer potential learners seek to advance their education. Any of these events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, these events could adversely affect the ability or willingness of our former learners to repay student loans, which could increase our student loan cohort default rate and require increased time, attention and resources to manage these defaults. We may not be able to successfully identify, pursue or integrate acquisitions; acquisitions may result in dilution. As part of our growth strategy, we are actively considering acquisition opportunities in the U.S. and worldwide. We recently acquired a proprietary educational institution in the United Kingdom that complements our strategic direction. Any acquisition involves significant risks and uncertainties, including: • Inability to successfully integrate the acquired operations, including the information technology systems, into our institutions and maintain uniform standards, controls, policies and procedures; • Inability to successfully operate and grow the acquired businesses; • Distraction of management’s attention from normal business operations; • Challenges retaining the key employees of the acquired operation; • Operating, market or other challenges causing operating results to be less than projected; • Expenses associated with the acquisition; • Challenges relating to conforming non-compliant financial reporting procedures to those required of a subsidiary of a U.S. reporting company, including procedures required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; and 46 Table of Contents • Unidentified issues not discovered in our due diligence process, including commitments and/or contingencies. Acquisitions are inherently risky. We cannot be certain that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition opportunities, acquire institutions on favorable terms, or successfully integrate or profitably operate acquired institutions. Future transactions may involve use of our cash resources, issuance of equity or debt securities, and may be dilutive to earnings, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we issue equity securities as consideration in an acquisition, current shareholders’ percentage ownership and earnings per share may be diluted. In addition, our acquisition of an educational institution could be considered a change in ownership and control of the acquired institution under applicable regulatory standards. For such an acquisition in the U.S., we may need approval from the U.S. Department of Education and applicable state agencies and accrediting agencies and possibly other regulatory bodies. Our inability to obtain such approvals with respect to a completed acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our expansion into new markets outside the U.S. subjects us to risks inherent in international operations. As part of our growth strategy, we have acquired a proprietary educational institution in the United Kingdom, and we may actively pursue additional acquisitions outside the U.S. To the extent that we make such acquisitions, we will face risks that are inherent in international operations, including: • Complexity of operations across borders; • Compliance with foreign legal and regulatory environments; • Currency exchange rate fluctuations; • Monetary policy risks, such as inflation, hyperinflation and deflation; • Price controls or restrictions on exchange of foreign currencies; • Potential political and economic instability in the countries in which we operate, including potential student uprisings; • Expropriation of assets by local governments; • Multiple and possibly overlapping and conflicting tax laws; • Compliance with anti-corruption laws and regulations such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010; • Potential unionization of employees under local labor laws and local labor laws that make it more expensive and complex to negotiate with, retain or terminate employees; • Greater difficulty in utilizing and enforcing our intellectual property and contract rights; • Failure to understand the local culture and market; • Limitations on the repatriation of funds; and • Increased acts of terrorism and war, epidemics and natural disasters in new geographic regions. Our credit agreement limits our ability to take various actions. Our credit agreement limits our ability to take various actions, including paying dividends, repurchasing shares and acquiring and disposing of assets or businesses. Accordingly, we may be restricted from taking actions that 47 Table of Contents management believes would be desirable and in the best interests of us and our shareholders. Our credit agreement also requires us to satisfy specified financial and non-financial covenants, including covenants relating to regulatory compliance. A breach of any covenants contained in our credit agreement would result in an event of default under the agreement and allow the lenders to pursue various remedies, including accelerating the repayment of any indebtedness outstanding under the agreement, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 