ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS THE COMPANY’S INCREASED LEVERAGE MAY RESTRICT ITS FUTURE OPERATIONS. The Company has substantial indebtedness, including senior notes sold by the Company on December 31, 2007 in the principal amount of $17 million. The payment of interest and principal due under this indebtedness will reduce funds available for other business purposes, including capital expenditures and acquisitions. In addition, the aggregate amount of indebtedness may limit the Company’s ability to incur additional indebtedness, and thereby may limit its operations and strategic expansion. WE HAVE INCURRED SUBSTANTIAL LOSSES IN RECENT YEARS AND OUR RETURN TO PROFITABILITY IS UNCERTAIN We incurred net losses of $9.3 million in the year ended December 31, 2005, $15.8 million in the year ended December 31, 2006, and $9.8 million in the year ended December 31, 2007, and we had an accumulated deficit at December 31, 2007 of $160.0 million. Our recent results have been impacted by a number of factors, including decisions to defer revenue associated with one of our software products and relatively high research and 10 Table of Contents development expense related to our efforts to resolve deficiencies in that product and the accelerated development of new versions of other products, and we cannot assure you that we will not be affected by these or other factors in future periods. We cannot assure you that we will achieve sufficient revenues to become profitable in the future. IT IS DIFFICULT FOR US TO PREDICT WHEN OR IF SALES WILL OCCUR AND WHEN WE WILL RECOGNIZE THE REVENUE FROM OUR FUTURE SALES Our clients view the purchase of our software applications and related professional services as a significant and strategic decision. As a result, clients carefully evaluate our software products and services, often over long periods. The license of our software products may be subject to delays if the client has lengthy internal budgeting, approval and evaluation processes, which are quite common in the context of introducing large enterprise-wide technology solutions. The length of this evaluation process varies from client to client. Our clients have also shown an interest in licensing our software on a subscription basis, which results in deferral of payments and revenues that could otherwise be reportable if a traditional, fully-paid perpetual license were executed. Our revenue forecasts and internal budgets are based, in part, on our best assumptions about the mix of future subscription licenses versus perpetual licenses. If we enter into a larger proportion of subscription agreements than planned, we may experience an unplanned shortfall in revenues or cash during that quarter. A significant percentage of our expenses, particularly personnel costs and rent, are fixed costs and are based in part on expectations of future revenues. We may be unable to reduce spending in a timely manner to compensate for any significant fluctuations in revenues and cash. Accordingly, shortfalls in current revenues, as we have experienced in recent years, may cause our operating results to be below the expectations of public market analysts or investors, which could cause the value of our common stock to decline. WE CANNOT GUARANTEE THAT OUR DEFERRED REVENUE WILL BE RECOGNIZED AS PLANNED In 2005 we became aware of certain deficiencies in the then-current version of one of our software products, which had first been shipped to customers in the fourth quarter of 2004. These deficiencies have resulted in delays and other problems with implementations of the software for several customers. Although we successfully completed implementations of the newest version of this software at multiple customer sites and made progress with other customer implementations during the second half of 2007, we are continuing to defer all recurring, services and license revenue in connection with (i) implementations of this software program that are not yet complete, and (ii) any customers for which a concession is probable and an agreement formalizing a concession amount has not been executed. Also, we have entered into concession agreements which resulted in the Company agreeing to provide a partial refund and a credit for future maintenance and support to specific customers, and we may enter into concessions with other customers in connection with this software product that will result in either credits for future services or refunds. As of December 31, 2007, we have deferred $671,000 of otherwise-recognizable license and professional service revenue. If we are not successful in completing the implementation of the software at customer sites on a timely basis, our income and financial condition may be materially adversely affected, including that we may not be able to recognize as much of this deferred revenue as we have projected. OUR CASH FLOW FROM OPERATIONS HAS BEEN NEGATIVE AND WILL LIKELY CONTINUE TO BE NEGATIVE UNTIL WE RETURN TO SUSTAINED PROFITABILITY Our future long-term capital needs will depend significantly on the rate of growth of our business, our profitability, the mix of subscription licensing arrangements versus perpetual licenses sold, possible acquisitions, the timing of expanded product offerings and the success of these offerings if and when they are launched. Accordingly, our future long-term cash needs and cash flows are subject to substantial uncertainty. If our current balance of cash and cash equivalents is insufficient to satisfy our long-term liquidity needs, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities to raise funds, and those future securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the rights of our common stock. In connection with a sale of stock, our stockholders would experience dilution. In addition, we cannot be certain that additional financing will be available to us on favorable terms when required, or at all. 11 Table of Contents WE MAY NOT BE SUCCESSFUL IN DEVELOPING OR ACQUIRING NEW TECHNOLOGIES OR BUSINESSES AND THIS COULD HINDER OUR EXPANSION EFFORTS In the near term we expect to continue our product research and development efforts at levels similar to current expenditures. We have had quality issues with one of our software products, which have affected our sales and have caused us to defer revenue recognition, and these issues may continue. We may consider additional acquisitions of or new investments in complementary businesses, products, services or technologies. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in our product development efforts or that we will be able to identify appropriate acquisition or investment candidates. Even if we do identify suitable candidates, we cannot assure you that we will be able to make such acquisitions or investments on terms acceptable to us. Furthermore, we may incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisitions. The issuance of equity securities could be dilutive to our existing stockholders and the issuance of debt could limit our available cash and accordingly restrict our activities. WE HAVE MANY COMPETITORS AND POTENTIAL COMPETITORS AND WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO COMPETE EFFECTIVELY The market for our products and services is competitive and subject to rapid change. We encounter significant competition for the sale of our contract management software from the internal information systems departments of existing and potential clients, software companies that target the contract management markets and professional services organizations. Our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of products and services offered. We anticipate increased competition for market share and pressure to reduce prices and make sales concessions, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues and margins. WE HAVE MULTIPLE FACILITIES AND WE MAY EXPERIENCE DIFFICULTIES IN OPERATING FROM THESE DIFFERENT LOCATIONS We operate out of our corporate headquarters in Edison, New Jersey, engineering offices in Redwood City, California, Portland, Maine and Ambler, Pennsylvania, and an office facility in London, England. We have also recently opened an engineering office in Gandhinagar, India. The geographic distances between our offices makes it more challenging for our management and other employees to collaborate and communicate with each other than if they were all located in a single facility, and, as a result, increases the demand on our managerial, operational and financial resources. Also, a significant number of our sales and professional services employees work remotely out of home offices, which adds to this demand. WE MAY NOT BE SUCCESSFUL IN RETAINING AND ATTRACTING TALENTED AND KEY EMPLOYEES We depend on the services of our senior management and key technical personnel. The loss of the services of key employees, and the inability to attract new employees to fill crucial roles, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. OUR EFFORTS TO PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY MAY NOT BE FULLY EFFECTIVE, AND WE MAY INADVERTENTLY INFRINGE ON THE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY OF OTHERS Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain the use of information that we regard as proprietary. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States. We cannot assure investors that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop similar technology. We are not aware that any of our products infringe the proprietary rights of third parties. We cannot assure investors, however, that third parties will not claim infringement by us with respect to current or future products. 12 Table of Contents We expect that software product developers will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable 