Item 1A. Risk Factors. Current conditions in the global economy and the major industry sectors that we serve may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our business and operating results will continue to be affected by worldwide economic conditions and, in particular, conditions in the communications, computing, military/aerospace, industrial electronics, instrumentation, medical, high-durability commercial markets, and other significant industries we serve. As a result of slowing global economic growth, the credit market crisis, declining consumer and business confidence, increased unemployment, reduced levels of capital expenditures, fluctuating commodity prices, bankruptcies and other challenges currently affecting the global economy, our customers may experience deterioration of their businesses, cash flow shortages, and difficulty obtaining financing. As a result, existing or potential customers may delay or cancel plans to purchase products produced by our customers which would have a material adverse effect on us. Further, our vendors may be experiencing similar conditions, which may impact their ability to fulfill their obligations to us. Although the new Administration in the United States has enacted, and is expected to enact further, various economic stimulus programs, there can be no assurance as to the effectiveness of these programs, and with respect to future programs, the timing and effectiveness, of these programs. If the global economic slowdown continues for a significant period or there is significant further deterioration in the global economy, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. There are risks in owning our common stock. The market price and volume of our common stock have been, and may continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations. These may arise from general stock market conditions, the impact of the risk factors described above on our financial condition and results of operations, a change in sentiment in the market regarding us or our business prospects or from other factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among other things, actual or anticipated variations in our operating results and cash flows, the nature and content of our earnings releases and our competitors’ earnings releases, announcements of technological innovations that impact our services, customers, competitors or markets, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, business conditions in our markets and the general state of the securities markets and the market for similar stocks, changes in capital markets that affect the perceived availability of capital to companies in our industry, the amount and frequency of share repurchases, governmental legislation or regulation, currency and exchange rate fluctuations, as well as general economic and market conditions. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Market. Limited trading volume of our common stock could affect the trading price by magnifying the effect of larger purchase or sale orders and could increase the trading price volatility in general. No prediction can be made as to future trading volumes of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market. We may need additional capital in the future and it may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Looking ahead at long-term needs, we may need to raise additional funds for a number of purposes, including: • to fund our operations beyond 2009; • to fund working capital requirements for future growth that we may experience; • to enhance or expand the range of services we offer; • to increase our sales and marketing activities; or • to respond to competitive pressures or perceived opportunities, such as investment, acquisition and international expansion activities. If such funds are not available when required or on acceptable terms, our business and financial results could suffer. In addition, turmoil in the credit markets could negatively impact our lender under our asset-based credit facility and thus potentially limit our ability to borrow under the credit facility, or limit our ability to renew the credit facility when it expires in March 2010. Further, if we attempt to obtain future additional financing, the issues facing the credit market could negatively impact our ability to obtain such financing with comparable terms as our existing credit facility, or at all. 12 Table of Contents We may issue additional shares of common stock that may dilute the value of our common stock and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition to the approximately 19.8 million shares of our common stock outstanding at December 31, 2008, we may issue additional shares of common stock in the following scenarios: • up to approximately 3.2 million shares of our common stock may be required to be issued pursuant to outstanding and/or future equity compensation awards; • a significant number of additional shares of our common stock may be issued if we seek to raise capital through offerings of our common stock, securities convertible into our common stock, or rights to acquire such securities or our common stock. A large issuance of shares of our common stock, in any or all of the above scenarios, will decrease the ownership percentage of current outstanding stockholders and will likely result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. Any large issuance may also result in a change in control of DDi. The terms of our credit facility may restrict our financial and operational flexibility. The terms of our credit facility restrict, among other things, our ability to incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends or make certain other restricted payments, consummate certain asset sales, enter into certain transactions with affiliates, merge or consolidate with other persons, or sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets. Further, we are required to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial conditions. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and there can be no assurance that we will meet those tests. Substantially all of our assets, except equipment and real property, are pledged as collateral under our credit facility. We are dependent upon the electronics industry, which is highly cyclical and suffers significant downturns in demand resulting in excess manufacturing capacity and increased price competition. The electronics industry, on which a substantial portion of our business depends, is cyclical and subject to significant downturns characterized by diminished product demand, rapid declines in average selling prices and over-capacity. This industry has experienced periods characterized by relatively low demand and price depression and is likely to experience recessionary periods in the future. Economic conditions affecting the electronics industry in general, or specific customers in particular, have adversely affected our operating results in the past and may do so in the future. The electronics industry is characterized by intense competition, rapid technological change, relatively short product life cycles and pricing and profitability pressures. These factors adversely affect our customers and we suffer similar effects. Our customers are primarily high-technology equipment manufacturers in the communications and computing, military and aerospace, industrial electronics, instrument, medical, and high-durability commercial markets of the electronics industry. Due to the uncertainty in the markets served by most of our customers, we cannot accurately predict our future financial results or accurately anticipate future orders. At any time, our customers can discontinue or modify products containing components manufactured by us, adjust the timing of orders and shipments or affect our mix of consolidated net sales generated from quick-turn and premium services revenues versus standard lead time production, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our customers are subject to economic cycles and fluctuations in product demand. A significant downturn in demand for our customers’ products would similarly affect demand for our products and as such, our sales, gross margin and operating performance would be adversely affected. Our customers that purchase printed circuit board engineering and manufacturing services from us are subject to their own business cycles. Some of these cycles show predictability from year to year. However, other cycles are unpredictable in commencement, depth and duration. A downturn, or any other event leading to additional excess capacity, will negatively impact our sales, gross margin and operating performance. We cannot accurately predict the continued demand for our customers’ products and the demands of our customers for our products and services. As a result of this uncertainty, our past operating performance and cash flows may not be indicative of our future operating performance and cash flows. 13 Table of Contents Unless we are able to respond to technological change at least as quickly as our competitors, our services could be rendered obsolete, which would reduce our sales and operating margins. The market for our services is characterized by rapidly changing technology and continuing process development. The future success of our business will depend in large part upon our ability to maintain and enhance our technological capabilities, to develop and market services that meet evolving customer needs and to successfully anticipate or respond to technological changes on a cost-effective and timely basis. In addition, the PCB engineering and manufacturing services industry could in the future encounter competition from new or revised technologies that render existing technology less competitive or obsolete or that reduce the demand for our services. It is possible that we will not effectively respond to the technological requirements of the changing market. To the extent we determine that new technologies and equipment are required to remain competitive, the development, acquisition and implementation of such technologies and equipment may require us to make significant capital investments. It is possible that we will not be able to obtain capital for these purposes in the future or that any investments in new technologies will not result in commercially viable technological processes. We may experience significant fluctuation in our revenue because we sell primarily on a purchase order basis, rather than pursuant to long-term contracts. Our operating results fluctuate because we sell primarily on a purchase-order basis rather than pursuant to long-term contracts, and we expect these fluctuations to continue in the future. We are therefore sensitive to variability in demand by our customers. Because we time our expenditures in anticipation of future sales, our operating results may be less than we estimate if the timing and volume of customer orders do not match our expectations. Furthermore, we may not be able to capture all potential revenue in a given period if our customers’ demand for quick-turn services exceeds our capacity during that period. Because a significant portion of our operating expenses are fixed, even a small revenue shortfall can have a disproportionate effect on our operating results. It is possible that, in future periods, our results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. This could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We rely on a core group of significant customers for a substantial portion of our revenue, and a reduction in demand from, or an inability to pay by, this core group could adversely affect our revenue. Although we have a large number of customers, net sales to our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 30%, 33% and 31% of our net sales in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We may continue to depend upon a core group of customers for a material percentage of our net sales in the future. In addition, we generate significant accounts receivable in connection with providing services to our customers. If one or more of our significant customers were to become insolvent or otherwise were unable to pay us for the services provided, our results of operations and cash flows would be adversely affected. If we experience excess capacity due to variability in customer demand, our gross margins may decline. We maintain our production facilities at less than full capacity to retain our ability to respond to quick-turn orders. However, if these orders are not received, we could experience losses due to excess capacity. Whenever we experience excess capacity, our revenue may be insufficient to fully cover our fixed overhead expenses and our gross margins would decline. Conversely, we may not be able to capture all potential revenue in a given period if our customers’ demands for quick-turn services exceed our capacity during that period. We are subject to intense competition, and our business may be adversely affected by these competitive pressures. The PCB industry is highly fragmented and characterized by intense competition. We principally compete with independent and captive manufacturers of complex quick-turn and longer-lead PCBs. Our principal competitors include other established public companies, smaller private companies and integrated subsidiaries of more broadly based volume producers that also manufacture multi-layer PCBs. We also expect that competition will increase as a result of industry consolidation. Some of our competitors and potential competitors may have a number of advantages over us, including: • significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and manufacturing resources; • preferred vendor status with some of our existing and potential customers; • more focused production facilities that may allow them to produce and sell products at lower price points; • more capital; and • larger customer bases. 14 Table of Contents In addition, these competitors may have the ability to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies, be more successful in entering or adapting to existing or new end markets, adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements and devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. Consolidation in the PCB industry, which we expect to continue, could result in an increasing number of larger PCB companies with greater market power and resources. Such consolidation could in turn increase price competition and result in other competitive pressures for us. For us to be competitive in the quick-turn sector, we must maintain a large customer base, a large staff of qualified sales and marketing personnel, considerable engineering resources and proper tooling and equipment to permit fast turnaround of small lots on a daily basis. If Asian-based production capabilities increase in sophistication, we may lose market share, and our gross margins may be adversely affected by increased pricing pressure. Price competition from PCB manufacturers based in Asia and other locations with lower production costs may play an increasing role in the PCB markets in which we compete. While PCB manufacturers in these locations have historically competed primarily in markets for less technologically-advanced products with high volumes, they are expanding their manufacturing capabilities to produce higher layer count and higher technology PCBs. In the future, competitors in Asia may be able to effectively compete in our higher technology markets, which may result in decreased net sales or force us to lower our prices, reducing our gross margins. Defects in our products could result in financial or other damages to our customers, which could result in reduced demand for our services and liability claims against us. We manufacture highly complex products to our customers’ specifications. These products may contain manufacturing errors or failures despite our quality control and quality assurance efforts. Defects in the products we manufacture, whether caused by a design, manufacturing or materials failure or error, may result in delayed shipments, increased warranty costs, customer dissatisfaction, or a reduction in or cancellation of purchase orders. If these defects occur either in large quantities or too frequently, our business reputation may be impaired. Since our products are used in products that are integral to our customers’ businesses, errors, defects or other performance problems could result in financial or other damages to our customers beyond the cost of the PCB, for which we may be liable in some cases. Although we generally attempt to sell our products on terms designed to limit our exposure to warranty, product liability and related claims, in certain cases, the terms of our agreements allocate to us substantial exposure for product defects. In addition, even if we can contractually limit our exposure, existing or future laws or unfavorable judicial decisions could negate these limitation of liability provisions. Product liability litigation against us, even if it were unsuccessful, would be time consuming and costly to defend. Although we maintain a warranty reserve, this reserve may not be sufficient to cover our warranty or other expenses that could arise as a result of defects in our products. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property or infringe or are alleged to infringe others’ intellectual property, our operating results may be adversely affected. We primarily rely on trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights will prevent unauthorized use of our technology. Our inability to protect our intellectual property rights could diminish or eliminate the competitive advantages that we derive from our proprietary technology. We may become involved in litigation in the future to protect our intellectual property or in defense of allegations that we infringe others’ intellectual property rights. These claims and any resulting litigation could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidate our property rights. In addition, these lawsuits, regardless of their merits, could be time consuming and expensive to resolve and could divert management’s time and attention. Any potential intellectual property litigation alleging our infringement of a third-party’s intellectual property also could force us or our customers to: • stop producing products that use the intellectual property in question; • obtain an intellectual property license to sell the relevant technology at an additional cost, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; and • redesign those products or services that use the technology in question. 15 Table of Contents The costs to us resulting from having to take any of these actions could be substantial and our operating results could be adversely affected. Complying with applicable environmental laws requires significant resources and, if we fail to comply, we could be subject to substantial liability. Our operations are regulated under a number of federal, state, local and foreign environmental and safety laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the discharge of hazardous materials into the air and water, as well as the handling, storage and disposal of such materials. These laws and regulations include the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as well as analogous state and foreign laws. Compliance with these environmental laws is a major consideration for us because we use in our manufacturing process materials classified as hazardous such as ammoniacal etching solutions, copper and nickel. Our efforts to comply with applicable environmental laws require an ongoing and significant commitment of our resources. Over the years, environmental laws have become, and may in the future become, more stringent, imposing greater compliance costs on us. In addition, because we are a generator of hazardous wastes and our sites may become contaminated, we may be subject to potential financial liability for costs associated with an investigation and any remediation of such sites. Even if we fully comply with applicable environmental laws and are not directly at fault for the contamination, we may still be liable. The wastes we generate include spent ammoniacal etching solutions, solder stripping solutions and hydrochloric acid solutions containing palladium, waste water which contains heavy metals, acids, cleaners and conditioners and filter cake from equipment used for on-site waste treatment. Violations of environmental laws could subject us to revocation of the environmental permits we require to operate our business. Any such revocations could require us to cease or limit production at one or more of our facilities, thereby negatively impacting revenues and potentially causing the market price of our common stock to decline. Additionally, if we are liable for any violation of environmental laws, we could be required to undertake expensive remedial actions and be subject to additional penalties. Effective July 1, 2006, the European Union enacted the Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive, or the European Union RoHS Directive, which restricts the use of a number of substances, including lead. During 2007, and continuing forward, China, Korea, the United States and other nations have enacted or are contemplating enacting similar federal legislation restricting the use of the same, or similar, substances covered under the European Union RoHS Directive. We believe that our products are compliant with these efforts and that materials will be available to meet these emerging regulations. However, it is possible that unanticipated supply shortages or delays may occur as a result of these new regulations. In addition, these requirements may render some of our raw materials and inventory obsolete, as well as potentially increase the cost of these raw materials. Also, because tin-lead alloys have been used as a primary soldering material in electronic assembly for decades, the elimination of tin-lead as a surface finish and/or a soldering material may require investments to expand or acquire new surface finishing technologies. The products that we manufacture that comply with the new regulatory standards or are assembled through our customer’s RoHS-compliant assembly processes may not perform as well as our current products. If we are unable to continue the successful and timely redesign of existing products and introduce new products that meet the standards set by environmental regulation and our customers, sales of our products could decline and warranty costs could increase, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on our key personnel and may have difficulty attracting and retaining skilled employees. Our future success will depend to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our key management, marketing, technical, financial, accounting and operational personnel, including Mikel H. Williams, our President and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of one or more key employees could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We also believe that our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain additional highly skilled managerial and technical resources. Competition for such personnel is intense. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. In addition, potential future facility shutdowns and workforce reductions could have a negative impact on employee recruiting and retention. Our manufacturing processes depend on the collective industry experience of our employees. If these employees were to leave and take this knowledge with them, our manufacturing processes may suffer, and we may not be able to compete effectively. Other than our trade secret protection, we rely on the collective experience of our employees to ensure that we continuously evaluate and adopt new technologies in our industry. If a significant number of employees involved in our manufacturing processes were to leave our employment and we are not able to replace these people with new employees with comparable experience, our manufacturing processes may suffer as we may be unable to keep up with innovations in the industry. As a result, we may not be able to continue to compete effectively. 16 Table of Contents We rely on suppliers for the timely delivery of materials used in manufacturing our PCBs, and an increase in industry demand or a shortage of raw materials may increase the price of the raw materials we use and may limit our ability to manufacture certain products and adversely impact our gross margins. To manufacture our PCBs, we use materials such as laminated layers of fiberglass, copper foil and chemical solutions which we order from our suppliers. Suppliers of laminates and other raw materials that we use may from time to time extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors, which could adversely affect our gross margins and our ability to deliver our products on a timely basis. During 2007, we experienced, and may continue to experience, increases in the cost of materials, including laminate, copper products, gold, and oil-based or oil-derivative raw materials, which could adversely impact our gross margins. Some of our products use types of laminates that are only available from a single supplier that holds a patent on the material. Although other manufacturers of advanced PCBs also must use the single supplier and our OEM customers generally determine the type of laminates used, a failure to obtain the material from the single supplier for any reason may cause a disruption, and possible cancellation, of orders for PCBs using that type of laminate, which in turn would cause a decrease in our sales. Future acquisitions may be costly and difficult to integrate, may divert management resources and may dilute shareholder value. As part of our business strategy, we have made and may continue to make acquisitions of, or investments in, companies, products or technologies that complement our current products, augment our market coverage, enhance our technical capabilities or production capacity or that may otherwise offer growth opportunities. In connection with any future acquisitions or investments, we could experience: • problems integrating the purchased operations, technologies or products; • failure to achieve potential sales, materials costs and other synergies; • unanticipated expenses and working capital requirements; • difficulty achieving sufficient sales to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions; • diversion of management’s attention; • adverse effects on business relationships with our or the acquired company’s suppliers and customers; • difficulty in entering markets in which we have limited or no prior experience; • losses of key employees, particularly those of the acquired organization; and • problems implementing adequate internal controls and procedures. In addition, in connection with any future acquisitions or investments, we could: • issue stock that would dilute our current stockholders’ percentage ownership; • incur debt and assume liabilities that could impair our liquidity; • incur amortization expenses related to intangible assets; or • incur large and immediate write-offs that would negatively impact our results of operations. Any of these factors could prevent us from realizing anticipated benefits of an acquisition or investment, including operational synergies, economies of scale and increased profit margins and revenue. Acquisitions are inherently risky, and any acquisition may not be successful. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions could harm our business and operating results in a material way. Damage to our manufacturing facilities due to fire, natural disaster, or other event could harm our financial results. We have manufacturing facilities in California, Ohio, Virginia, and Ontario, Canada. The destruction or closure of any of our facilities for a significant period of time as a result of fire; explosion; blizzard; act of war or terrorism; or flood, tornado, earthquake, lightning, or other natural disaster could harm us financially, increasing our costs of doing business and limiting our ability to deliver our manufacturing services on a timely basis. 17 Table of Contents Pending or future litigation could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We are involved, from time to time, in litigation incidental to our business. This litigation could result in substantial costs and could divert management’s attention and resources which could harm our business. Risks associated with legal liability are often difficult to assess or quantify, and their existence and magnitude can remain unknown for significant periods of time. In cases where we record a liability, the amount of our estimates could be wrong. In addition to the direct costs of litigation, pending or future litigation could divert management’s attention and resources from the operation of our business. While we maintain director and officer insurance, the amount of insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover a claim and the continued availability of this insurance cannot be assured. As a result, there can be no assurance that the actual outcome of pending or future litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. A trend toward consolidation among our customers could adversely affect our business. Recently, some of our large customers have consolidated and further consolidation of customers may occur. Depending on which organization becomes the controller of the supply chain function following the consolidation, we may not be retained as a preferred or approved supplier. In addition, product duplication could result in the termination of a product line that we currently support. While there is potential for increasing our position with the combined company, the potential exists for decreased revenue if we are not retained as a continuing supplier. We also face the risk of increased pricing pressure from the combined customer because of its increased market share. We are exposed to the credit risk of some of our customers and to credit exposures in weakened markets. Most of our sales are on an “open credit” basis, with standard industry payment terms. We monitor individual customer payment capability in granting such open credit arrangements, seek to limit such open credit to amounts we believe the customers can pay, and maintain reserves we believe are adequate to cover exposure for doubtful accounts. During periods of economic downturn in the electronics industry and the global economy, our exposure to credit risks from our customers increases. Although we have programs in place to monitor and mitigate the associated risks, such programs may not be effective in reducing our credit risks. Our 10 largest customers accounted for approximately 30% of our net sales in 2008. Additionally, our OEM customers often direct a significant portion of their purchases through a relatively limited number of EMS companies. Our contractual relationship is often with the EMS companies, who are obligated to pay us for our products. Because we expect our OEM customers to continue to direct our sales to EMS companies, we expect to continue to be subject to the credit risk with a limited number of EMS customers. If one or more of our significant customers were to become insolvent or were otherwise unable to pay us, our results of operations would be harmed. Some of our customers are EMS companies located abroad. Our exposure has increased as these foreign customers continue to expand. Our foreign sales are denominated in U.S. dollars and are typically on the same “open credit” basis and terms described above. Our foreign receivables were approximately 16% of our net accounts receivable as of December 31, 2008 and are expected to continue to grow as a percentage of our total receivables. We do not utilize credit insurance as a risk management tool. The increasing prominence of EMS providers in the PCB industry could reduce our gross margins, potential sales, and customers. Sales to EMS providers represented approximately 35% of our net sales in 2008. Sales to EMS providers include sales directed by OEMs as well as orders placed with us at the EMS providers’ discretion. EMS providers source on a global basis to a greater extent than OEMs. The growth of EMS providers increases the purchasing power of such providers and could result in increased price competition or the loss of existing OEM customers. In addition, some EMS providers, including some of our customers, have the ability to directly manufacture PCBs. If a significant number of our other EMS customers were to acquire these abilities, our customer base might shrink, and our sales might decline substantially. Moreover, if any of our OEM customers outsource the production of PCBs to these EMS providers, our business, results of operations, and financial condition may be harmed. Increasingly, our larger customers are requesting that we enter into supply agreements with them that have increasingly restrictive terms and conditions. These agreements typically include provisions that increase our financial exposure, which could result in significant costs to us. Increasingly, our larger customers are requesting that we enter into supply agreements with them. These agreements typically include provisions that generally serve to increase our exposure for product liability and warranty claims — as compared to our standard terms and conditions — which could result in higher costs to us as a result of such claims. In addition, these agreements typically contain provisions that seek to limit our operational and pricing flexibility and extend payment terms, which can adversely impact our cash flow and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents We export defense and commercial products from the United States to other countries. If we fail to comply with export laws, we could be subject to fines and other punitive actions. Exports from the United States are regulated by the U.S. Department of State and U.S. Department of Commerce. Failure to comply with these regulations can result in significant fines and penalties. Additionally, violations of these laws can result in punitive penalties, which would restrict or prohibit us from exporting certain products, resulting in significant harm to our business. We may not be able to fully recover our costs for providing design services to our customers, which could harm our financial results. Although we enter into design service activities with purchase order commitments, the cost of labor and equipment to provide these services may in fact exceed what we are able to fully recover through purchase order coverage. We also may be subject to agreements with customers in which the cost of these services is recovered over a period of time or through a certain number of units shipped as part of the ongoing product price. While we may make contractual provisions to recover these costs in the event that the product does not go into production, the actual recovery can be difficult and may not happen in full. In other instances, the business relationship may involve investing in these services for a customer as an ongoing service not directly recoverable through purchase orders. In any of these cases, the possibility exists that some or all of these activities are considered costs of doing business, are not directly recoverable, and may adversely impact our operating results. We may have exposure to income tax rate fluctuations as well as to additional tax liabilities, which would impact our financial position. We are subject to taxes in the United States and Canada. Our effective tax rate is subject to fluctuation as the income tax rates for each year are a function of the following factors, among others: • the effects of a mix of profits or losses earned by us and our subsidiaries in numerous tax jurisdictions with a broad range of income tax rates; • our ability to utilize net operating losses; • changes in contingencies related to taxes, interest or penalties resulting from tax audits; and • changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such laws. Changes in the mix of these items and other items may cause our effective tax rate to fluctuate between periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. In addition, changes in the ownership of our common stock could further limit our ability to utilize our net operating losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. We are also subject to non-income taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in both the United States and Canada. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. Our tax determinations are regularly subject to audit by tax authorities, and developments in those audits could adversely affect our income tax provision. Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes may be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions, which could affect our operating results. We are subject to risks associated with currency fluctuations, which could have a material effect on our results of operations and/or financial condition. A portion of our cash and other current assets is held in the Canadian dollar. Changes in the exchange rates of the Canadian dollar and the U.S. dollar will affect the value of these assets as translated to U.S. dollars on our balance sheet. To the extent that we ultimately decide to repatriate some portion of these funds to the United States, the actual value transferred could be impacted by movements in exchange rates. Any such type of movement could negatively impact the amount of cash available to fund operations or to repay debt. 19 Table of Contents In addition, a portion of our business operations are transacted in Canadian dollars, and as a result, similar changes in exchange rates of the Canadian dollar and the U. S. dollar could result in exchange losses, which could impact our results of operations. The impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations and/or financial condition cannot be predicted. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 20 Table of Contents 