Item 1A. Risk Factors. The trading price of our common stock may continue to be volatile. The market price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among other things, actual or anticipated variations in our operating results and cash flow, the nature and content of our earnings releases and our competitors’ earnings releases, announcements of technological innovations that impact our services, customers, competitors or markets, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, business conditions in our markets and the general state of the securities markets and the market for similar stocks, changes in capital markets that affect the perceived availability of capital to companies in our industry, governmental legislation or regulation, currency and exchange rate fluctuations, as well as general economic and market conditions, such as recessions. In addition, our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Market. Limited trading volume of our common stock could affect the trading price by magnifying the effect of larger purchase or sale orders and could increase the trading price volatility in general. No prediction can be made as to future trading volumes of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market. 9 Table of Contents We may need additional capital in the future and it may not be available on acceptable terms, or not at all. Looking ahead at long-term needs, we may need to raise additional funds for a number of purposes, including: • to fund our operations beyond 2007; • to fund working capital requirements for future growth that we may experience; • to enhance or expand the range of services we offer; • to increase our sales and marketing activities; or • to respond to competitive pressures or perceived opportunities, such as investment, acquisition and international expansion activities. If such funds are not available when required or on acceptable terms, our business and financial results could suffer. We may issue additional shares of common stock that may dilute the value of our common stock and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition to the approximately 22.6 million shares of our common stock outstanding at December 31, 2006, we may issue additional shares of common stock in the following scenarios: • approximately 2.4 million shares of our common stock may be required to be issued pursuant to outstanding stock options or stock options issuable under our 2005 Stock Incentive Plan; • a significant number of additional shares of our common stock may be issued if we seek to raise capital through offerings of our common stock, securities convertible into our common stock, or rights to acquire such securities or our common stock. A large issuance of shares of our common stock, in any or all of the above scenarios, will decrease the ownership percentage of current outstanding stockholders and will likely result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. Any large issuance may also result in a change in control of DDi. The terms of our senior credit facility may restrict our financial and operational flexibility. The terms of our senior credit facility restrict, among other things, our ability to incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends or make certain other restricted payments, consummate certain asset sales, enter into certain transactions with affiliates, merge or consolidate with other persons or sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets. Further, we are required to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial conditions. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and there can be no assurance that we will meet those tests. Substantially all of our assets, except equipment and real property, are pledged as collateral under our senior credit facility. Our customers are subject to economic cycles and fluctuations in product demand. A significant downturn in demand for our customers’ products would similarly affect demand for our products and as such our sales, gross margin and operating performance would be adversely affected. Our customers that purchase printed circuit board engineering and manufacturing services from us are subject to their own business cycles. Some of these cycles show predictability from year to year. However, other cycles are unpredictable in commencement, depth and duration. A downturn, or any other event leading to additional excess capacity, will negatively impact our sales, gross margin and operating performance. We cannot accurately predict the continued demand for our customers’ products and the demands of our customers for our products and services. As a result of this uncertainty, our past operating performance and cash flows may not be indicative of our future operating performance and cash flows. 10 Table of Contents Unless we are able to respond to technological change at least as quickly as our competitors, our services could be rendered obsolete, which would reduce our sales and operating margins. The market for our services is characterized by rapidly changing technology and continuing process development. The future success of our business will depend in large part upon our ability to maintain and enhance our technological capabilities, to develop and market services that meet evolving customer needs and to successfully anticipate or respond to technological changes on a cost-effective and timely basis. In addition, the printed circuit board engineering and manufacturing services industry could in the future encounter competition from new or revised technologies that render existing technology less competitive or obsolete or that reduce the demand for our services. It is possible that we will not effectively respond to the technological requirements of the changing market. To the extent we determine that new technologies and equipment are required to remain competitive, the development, acquisition and implementation of such technologies and equipment may require us to make significant capital investments. It is possible that we will not be able to obtain capital for these purposes in the future or that any investments in new technologies will result in commercially viable technological processes. We may experience significant fluctuation in our revenue because we sell primarily on a purchase order basis, rather than pursuant to long-term contracts. Our operating results fluctuate because we sell primarily on a purchase-order basis rather than pursuant to long-term contracts, and we expect these fluctuations to continue in the future. We are therefore sensitive to variability in demand by our customers. Because we time our expenditures in anticipation of future sales, our operating results may be less than we estimate if the timing and volume of customer orders do not match our expectations. Furthermore, we may not be able to capture all potential revenue in a given period if our customers’ demand for quick-turn services exceeds our capacity during that period. Because of these factors, you should not rely on quarter- to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. Because a significant portion of our operating expenses are fixed, even a small revenue shortfall can have a disproportionate effect on our operating results. It is possible that, in future periods, our results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. This could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We rely on a core group of significant customers for a substantial portion of our revenue, and a reduction in demand from, or an inability to pay by, this core group could adversely affect our revenue. Although we have a large number of customers, net sales to our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 31%, 36% and 35% of our net sales in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We may continue to depend upon a core group of customers for a material percentage of our net sales in the future. In addition, we generate significant accounts receivable in connection with providing services to our customers. If one or more of our significant customers were to become insolvent or otherwise were unable to pay us for the services provided, our results of operations and cash flows would be adversely affected. If we experience excess capacity due to variability in customer demand, our gross margins may decline. We maintain our production facilities at less than full capacity to retain our ability to respond to quick-turn orders. However, if these orders are not received, we could experience losses due to excess capacity. Whenever we experience excess capacity, our revenue may be insufficient to fully cover our fixed overhead expenses and our gross margins would decline. Conversely, we may not be able to capture all potential revenue in a given period if our customers’ demands for quick-turn services exceed our capacity during that period. We are subject to intense competition, and our business may be adversely affected by these competitive pressures. The printed circuit board industry is highly fragmented and characterized by intense competition. We principally compete with independent and captive manufacturers of complex quick-turn and longer-lead printed circuit boards. Our principal competitors include other established public companies, smaller private companies 11 Table of Contents and integrated subsidiaries of more broadly based volume producers that also manufacture multi-layer printed circuit boards. We also expect that competition will increase as a result of industry consolidation. For us to be competitive in the quick-turn sector, we must maintain a large customer base, a large staff of qualified sales and marketing personnel, considerable engineering resources and proper tooling and equipment to permit fast turnaround of small lots on a daily basis. If Asian-based production capabilities increase in sophistication, we may lose market share, and our gross margins may be adversely affected by increased pricing pressure. Price competition from printed circuit board manufacturers based in Asia and other locations with lower production costs may play an increasing role in the printed circuit board markets in which we compete. While printed circuit board manufacturers in these locations have historically competed primarily in markets for less technologically advanced products with high volumes, they are expanding their manufacturing capabilities to produce higher layer count and higher technology printed circuit boards. In the future, competitors in Asia may be able to effectively compete in our higher technology markets, which may result in decreased net sales or force us to lower our prices, reducing our gross margins. Defects in our products could result in financial or other damages to our customers, which could result in reduced demand for our services and liability claims against us. Defects in the products we manufacture, whether caused by a design, manufacturing or materials failure or error, may result in delayed shipments, customer dissatisfaction, or a reduction in or cancellation of purchase orders. If these defects occur either in large quantities or too frequently, our business reputation may be impaired. Defects in our products could result in financial or other damages to our customers. Our sales terms and conditions generally contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to product liability and related claims; however, competing terms and provisions of our customers or existing or future laws or unfavorable judicial decisions could negate these limitation of liability provisions. Product liability claims made against us, even if unsuccessful, would be time-consuming and costly to defend. Although we maintain a warranty reserve, this reserve may not be sufficient to cover our warranty or other expenses that could arise as a result of higher than normal or historical defects in our products and may adversely impact our gross margins. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property or infringe or are alleged to infringe others’ intellectual property, our operating results may be adversely affected. We primarily rely on trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights will prevent unauthorized use of our technology. Our inability to protect our intellectual property rights could diminish or eliminate the competitive advantages that we derive from our proprietary technology. We may become involved in litigation in the future to protect our intellectual property or in defense of allegations that we infringe others’ intellectual property rights. These claims and any resulting litigation could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidate our property rights. In addition, these lawsuits, regardless of their merits, could be time consuming and expensive to resolve and could divert management’s time and attention. Any potential intellectual property litigation alleging our infringement of a third-party’s intellectual property also could force us or our customers to: • stop producing products that use the intellectual property in question; • obtain an intellectual property license to sell the relevant technology at an additional cost, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; and • redesign those products or services that use the technology in question. The costs to us resulting from having to take any of these actions could be substantial and our operating results could be adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents Complying with applicable environmental laws requires significant resources and, if we fail to comply, we could be subject to substantial liability. Our operations are regulated under a number of federal, state, local and foreign environmental and safety laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the discharge of hazardous materials into the air and water, as well as the handling, storage and disposal of such materials. These laws and regulations include the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as well as analogous state and foreign laws. Compliance with these environmental laws is a major consideration for us because we use in our manufacturing process materials classified as hazardous such as ammoniacal etching solutions, copper and nickel. Our efforts to comply with applicable environmental laws require an ongoing and significant commitment of our resources. Over the years, environmental laws have become, and may in the future become, more stringent, imposing greater compliance costs on us. In addition, because we are a generator of hazardous wastes and our sites may become contaminated, we may be subject to potential financial liability for costs associated with an investigation and any remediation of such sites. Even if we fully comply with applicable environmental laws and are not directly at fault for the contamination, we may still be liable. The wastes we generate include spent ammoniacal etching solutions, solder stripping solutions and hydrochloric acid solutions containing palladium, waste water which contains heavy metals, acids, cleaners and conditioners and filter cake from equipment used for on-site waste treatment. Violations of environmental laws could subject us to revocation of the environmental permits we require to operate our business. Any such revocations could require us to cease or limit production at one or more of our facilities, thereby negatively impacting revenues and potentially causing the market price of our common stock to decline. Additionally, if we are liable for any violation of environmental laws, we could be required to undertake expensive remedial actions and be subject to additional penalties. Effective July 1, 2006, the Company’s customers that provide products to the European Union must be in compliance with the Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive, or RoHS Directive, the European legislation that restricts the use of a number of substances, including lead. During 2007, China is expected to enact and the United States may enact similar federal legislation restricting the use of the same substances covered under the European Union RoHS Directive. We believe that our products are compliant with these efforts and that materials will be available to meet these emerging regulations. However, it is possible that unanticipated supply shortages or delays may occur as a result of these new regulations. In addition, these requirements may render some of our raw materials and inventory obsolete, as well as potentially increase the pricing for raw materials. Also, because most existing assembly processes utilize a tin-lead alloy as a soldering material in the manufacturing process, the elimination of tin-lead as a surface finish and/or a soldering material may require investments to expand or acquire new surface finishing technologies. The products that we manufacture that comply with the new regulatory standards or are assembled through RoHS-compliant assembly processes may not perform as well as our current products. If we are unable to successfully and timely redesign existing products and introduce new products that meet the standards set by environmental regulation and our customers, sales of our products could decline and warranty costs could increase, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on our key personnel and may have difficulty attracting and retaining skilled employees. Our future success will depend to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our key management, marketing, technical, financial, accounting and operational personnel, including Mikel H. Williams, our President and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of one or more key employees could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We also believe that our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain additional highly skilled managerial and technical resources. Competition for such personnel is intense. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. In addition, recent and potential future facility shutdowns and workforce reductions may have a negative impact on employee recruiting and retention. 13 Table of Contents Our manufacturing processes depend on the collective industry experience of our employees. If these employees were to leave and take this knowledge with them, our manufacturing processes may suffer, and we may not be able to compete effectively. Other than our trade secret protection, we rely on the collective experience of our employees to ensure that we continuously evaluate and adopt new technologies in our industry. If a significant number of employees involved in our manufacturing processes were to leave our employment and we are not able to replace these people with new employees with comparable experience, our manufacturing processes may suffer as we may be unable to keep up with innovations in the industry. As a result, we may not be able to continue to compete effectively. We rely on suppliers for the timely delivery of materials used in manufacturing our printed circuit boards, and an increase in industry demand or a shortage of raw materials may increase the price of the raw materials we use and may limit our ability to manufacture certain products and adversely impact our gross margins. To manufacture our printed circuit boards, we use materials such as laminated layers of fiberglass, copper foil and chemical solutions which we order from our suppliers. Suppliers of laminates and other raw materials that we use may from time to time extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors, which could adversely affect our gross margins and our ability to deliver our products on a timely basis. During 2006, we experienced, and may continue to experience, significant increases in the cost of laminate materials, copper products, gold and oil-based or oil-derivative raw materials, which could adversely impact our gross margins. Some of our products use types of laminates that are only available from a single supplier that holds a patent on the material. Although other manufacturers of advanced printed circuit boards also must use the single supplier and our OEM customers generally determine the type of laminates used, a failure to obtain the material from the single supplier for any reason may cause a disruption, and possible cancellation, of orders for printed circuit boards using that type of laminate, which in turn would cause a decrease in our sales. Our recent acquisition of Sovereign Circuits or future acquisitions may be costly and difficult to integrate, may divert management resources and may dilute shareholder value. As part of our business strategy, we have made and may continue to make acquisitions of, or investments in, companies, products or technologies that complement our current products, augment our market coverage, enhance our technical capabilities or production capacity or that may otherwise offer growth opportunities. In connection with our Sovereign Circuits acquisition or any future acquisitions or investments, we could experience: • problems integrating the purchased operations, technologies or products; • failure to achieve potential sales, materials costs and other synergies; • unanticipated expenses and working capital requirements; • difficulty achieving sufficient sales to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions; • diversion of management’s attention; • adverse effects on business relationships with our or the acquired company’s suppliers and customers; • difficulty in entering markets in which we have limited or no prior experience; • losses of key employees, particularly those of the acquired organization; and • problems implementing adequate internal controls and procedures. In addition, in connection with any future acquisitions or investments, we could: • issue stock that would dilute our current stockholders’ percentage ownership; • incur debt and assume liabilities that could impair our liquidity; 14 Table of Contents • incur amortization expenses related to intangible assets; or • incur large and immediate write-offs that would negatively impact our results of operations. Any of these factors could prevent us from realizing anticipated benefits of an acquisition or investment, including operational synergies, economies of scale and increased profit margins and revenue. Acquisitions are inherently risky, and any acquisition may not be successful. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions could harm our business and operating results in a material way. We are subject to risks associated with currency fluctuations, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. A portion of our sales are denominated in Canadian dollars, and as a result, changes in the exchange rates of the Canadian Dollar to the U.S. Dollar could result in exchange losses, which could impact our results of operations. The impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations cannot be accurately predicted. Significant decreases in our stock price could result in our having to record an impairment charge related to our goodwill. Applicable accounting standards require that goodwill be tested for impairment at least annually or whenever evidence of potential impairment exists. If, in any period, our stock price decreases to the point where the fair value of our Company, as determined by our market capitalization, is less than our book value, this could indicate a potential impairment and we may be required to record an impairment charge in that period. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 