Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to substantial risks, including the risks described below. We have insufficient capital to continue as a going concern. On June 13, 2008, we received $4,500,000 of new funding after closing a financing of $41,000,000, which included $38,000,000 from Goldman Sachs Investment Partners Master Fund, LP ("Goldman") and $3,000,000 from Syntek Capital AG ("Syntek), as further described in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Subsequent Events—2008 Financing" (the "2008 Financing"). In the 2008 Financing, we delivered to Goldman a $38,000,000 20% Senior Secured Convertible Note, payable on December 13, 2008 (the "2008 Goldman Note"), $35,000,000 of which we used to payoff the outstanding $35,000,000 5% Convertible Note due March 28, 2012 (the "2007 Goldman Note") issued to Goldman in the financing completed in March 2007. We also delivered a $3,000,000 20% Senior Secured Convertible Note, payable on December 13, 2008, to Syntek (the "2008 Syntek Note," and collectively with the 2008 Goldman Note, the "2008 Notes"), $1,500,000 of which we used to payoff the remaining outstanding principal on the amended promissory note, dated December 16, 2005, issued to Syntek (the "2005 Syntek Note"). Concurrent with the 2008 Financing, we paid approximately $400,000 to Goldman and Syntek for accrued interest on the 2007 Goldman Note and the 2005 Syntek Note, which resulted in approximately $4,000,000 of cash available for general corporate purposes (after debt issuance costs). Our obligations under the 2008 Notes are guarantied by certain of our subsidiaries and secured by a security interest in substantially all of our assets and those of our subsidiaries. Notwithstanding the 2008 Financing, we need additional capital to continue as a going concern and to execute our business plan. If we are unsuccessful in securing additional cash in the next three months, either through additional equity and/or debt financings, we will not be able to continue as a going concern. We have a history of significant losses, expect future losses and may never achieve or sustain profitability. We have incurred significant losses since our inception, and we expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. We incurred losses of $29,939,000 for the year ended March 31, 2008 and as of that date our accumulated deficit was $305,554,000. Our revenues and gross margins may not grow 9 or even continue at their current levels and could decline. If our revenues do not rapidly increase, or if our expenses increase at a greater pace than our revenues, we will never become profitable. Our substantial level of secured debt could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to execute our business plan. We have substantial secured debt totaling $41,000,000. This debt could have important consequences and significant effects on our business. For example, it could: •make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under the 2008 Notes; •limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures and other activities; •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; •result in an event of default if we fail to satisfy our obligations under the 2008 Notes, which could result in all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable and could permit our lenders to foreclose on our assets securing such debt; •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from our business operations to pay our debt, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, development projects, general operational requirements and other purposes; •increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions or a downturn in our business; and •place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that are not as highly leveraged. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our payment obligations under the 2008 Notes. If we fail to generate sufficient cash flow from future operations, we may have to attempt to refinance all or a portion of our debt or seek to obtain additional financing. Our shares of common stock have been de-listed from The Nasdaq Global Market; stocks traded on the over-the-counter markets are subject to greater market risks than those of exchange-traded stocks. Our shares of common stock were de-listed from The Nasdaq Global Market effective April 21, 2008 due to our failure to maintain minimum capitalization requirements in accordance with Nasdaq Marketplace Rules. Since that time, our common stock has been quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board and, currently, on the Pink Sheets. Securities traded in over-the-counter markets are, for the most part, thinly traded and generally are not subject to the level of regulation imposed on securities listed or traded on Nasdaq or other national securities exchanges. As a result, an investor may find it difficult to dispose of our common stock or to obtain accurate quotations as to its price. De-listing has negatively impacted the value of our common stock, as our common stock is less liquid. We also have lost support from certain institutional investors, brokerage firms and market makers that historically bought and sold our stock. Given the de-listing, we may find it difficult to obtain future financing for the continuation of our operations or to use our stock in acquisitions. Further, de-listing could result in the loss of confidence by our suppliers, customers and employees. Any of these results could negatively impact our business. 10 Our obligation to file periodic reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") has been suspended. On April 24, 2008, we filed Form 15 certifying that our common stock was held by 300 or fewer record holders as of the beginning of the 2008 fiscal year. This action suspended our reporting obligations under the Exchange Act. We do not intend to continue to file periodic reports on Forms 8-K, 10-Q and 10-K. Because the quantity and timeliness of information about us, our financial condition and our operations will be reduced, our common stock will be less attractive to investors, analysts and market-makers. Trading activity in our common stock may be reduced, and our investors may find it difficult to execute transactions in our stock. Stockholders in our common stock may suffer significant dilution if the holders of the 2008 Notes convert such notes into shares of our common stock. The aggregate principal and accrued interest under the 2008 Notes may be converted, at the option of Goldman and Syntek, into an aggregate of 8,826,531 shares of our common stock in accordance with the terms of the 2008 Notes. If the holders elect to the convert the 2008 Notes, our stockholders would experience significant dilution of our common stock. Our success depends on future demand for additional bandwidth by MSOs and their customers and the willingness and ability of MSOs to substantially increase available bandwidth on their networks using our alternative technology solution. Because our cable solutions expand available bandwidth over existing infrastructure, demand for these solutions depends on demand for additional bandwidth by MSOs and their customers. The scope and timing of customer demand for additional bandwidth is uncertain and hard to predict. The factors influencing this demand include competitive offerings, applications availability, pricing models, costs, regulatory requirements and the success of initial roll-outs. For our cable solutions to be sold in significant quantities, MSOs also must be willing and able to substantially increase the available bandwidth on their networks. MSOs may not be willing or able to develop additional services and revenue streams to justify the deployment of our technology. If the future demand for bandwidth is insubstantial, is addressed by alternative technologies or does not develop in the near future, our prospects would be adversely affected. If we fail to achieve significant market penetration and customer acceptance of our cable solutions, our prospects would be substantially harmed. The market for broadband products in the cable industry is extremely competitive, subject to drastic technological changes, changes in capital expenditure budgets and highly fragmented. Our cable solutions are new and relatively unknown; accordingly, we have not generated significant revenue in this business. We have only relatively recently shipped our first commercial orders for our UltraBand solution to various systems of a MSO. There can be no assurance that installations of our cable solutions will be successful. As some of our cable solutions continue to be in a development stage, we may face challenges such as market resistance to new products, perceptions regarding customer support and quality control. Since we have recently significantly reduced our workforce, our research and development efforts will be harmed. In the three months ended March 31, 2008, we simplified our structure by streamlining our corporate organization and reducing operating costs to better address market needs and revenue opportunities in the cable market. A significant portion of the costs of the restructuring plan were 11 related to our continuing strategy to focus exclusively on the cable market, to consolidate our facilities in the United States and to eliminate resources related to our wireless business. The reduction of approximately 78% of our workforce (when compared to the workforce levels as of January 31, 2008) impacted all company functions, both in Israel and the United States, and included management and non-management positions. These reductions were in addition to a cost reduction program implemented in July 2007 that reduced our workforce by approximately 16% (when compared to the workforce levels as of June 30, 2007). The largest effect of these reductions was on our research and development activities. Our ability to further develop and market our solutions may be limited if we have not accurately predicted the appropriate workforce requirements for our research and development efforts. We will generate significant sales only if we are able to penetrate the market and create market share in the cable market. If we are unable to do so, our business would be harmed and our prospects significantly diminished. We have written down and may need to further write-down our inventory in the future if our sales levels do not match our expectations, or if selling prices decline more than we anticipate, which could adversely impact our operating results. We operate in an industry that is characterized by intense competition, supply shortages or oversupply, rapid technological change, unpredictable sales patterns, declining average selling prices and rapid product obsolescence, all of which make it more challenging to effectively manage our inventory. In addition, some of the components we require have long lead-times and we are required to order or build inventory well in advance of the time of anticipated sales. Our inventory is stated at the lower of cost or market value. Determining market value of our inventory requires numerous judgments, including, but not limited to, judgments regarding average selling prices and sales volumes for future periods. We primarily utilize estimated selling prices for measuring any potential declines in market value below cost. When market value is determined to be below cost, we make appropriate allowances to reduce the value of inventories to net realized value. We may reduce the value of our inventory when we determine that inventory is slow moving, obsolete or excessive or if the selling price of the product is insufficient to cover product costs and selling expenses. In the past, our inventory increased given that our sales were substantially less than our anticipated demand and we were required to make advance inventory purchase commitments for anticipated sales. Accordingly, we recorded a $424,000 write down of inventory for the year ended December 31, 2006 and a $1,250,000 write down of inventory for the year ended March 31, 2008. If our sales do not increase, the sales price of our products decrease or we are otherwise unable to control inventory levels consistent with actual demand, we may be required to write down additional inventory. Any such write-down would adversely affect our operating results in future periods. We have not yet produced or deployed our cable solutions in high volumes. We have not yet produced our UltraBand solutions in high volumes and there may be challenges and unexpected delays, such as quality control issues, in our attempts to increase volume and lower production costs. Our long-term success depends on our ability to produce high quality solutions at a low cost and, in particular, to reduce the production cost of our cable solutions designed for residential use. Because we have not yet deployed our UltraBand solutions in high volumes, there is significant technology risk associated with any such future deployment. We cannot be sure that any such high volume deployment would be successful. 12 Our future growth depends on market acceptance of several emerging broadband services, on the adoption of new broadband technologies and on several other broadband industry trends. Future demand for our broadband products will depend significantly on the growing market acceptance of various broadband services, including digital video, video-on-demand, high definition television, very high-speed data services and voice-over-internet protocol ("VoIP") telephony. The effective delivery of these services will depend in part on a variety of new network architectures, such as fiber-to-the premises networks, video compression standards such as MPEG-4 and Microsoft's Windows Media 9, the greater use of protocols such as IP and the introduction of new consumer devices, such as advanced set-top boxes and digital video recorders. If adoption of these emerging services and/or technologies is not as widespread or as rapid as we expect, our net sales growth would be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, other technological, industry and regulatory trends will affect the growth of our business. These trends include the following: •convergence, or the desire of certain operators to provide a combination of video, voice and data services to consumers, also known as the "triple play;" •the use of digital video by businesses and governments; •the privatization of state owned telecommunication companies in other countries; •efforts by regulators and governments in the United States and abroad to encourage the adoption of broadband and digital technologies; and •the extent and nature of regulatory attitudes toward such issues as competition between operators, access by third parties to networks of other operators and new services such as VoIP. If, for instance, MSOs do not pursue the triple play as aggressively as we expect, our net sales growth would be materially and adversely affected. Similarly, if our expectations regarding these and other trends are not met, our net sales could be materially and adversely affected. We will need to develop distribution channels to market and sell our cable solutions. Our UltraBand solutions are in the early stages of commercialization. We currently have limited relationships with potential customers and distributors as well as limited sales staff. We will be successful only if we are able to develop distribution channels to market and sell our cable solutions in sufficient volumes. To develop such channels and market and sell our cable solutions, we may need to grow our sales and marketing team at the same time that we have drastically little cash. It may be difficult for us to hire and retain additional qualified personnel. We currently have limited exposure to global business opportunities, and cannot be able to take advantage of meaningful potential global demand for our solutions unless and until we are able to develop meaningful global distribution channels and strategies. Because of our long product development process and sales cycle, we may continue to incur substantial expenses without sufficient revenues that could cause our operating results to fluctuate. A customer's decision to purchase our solutions typically involves a significant technical evaluation, formal internal procedures associated with capital expenditure approvals and testing and acceptance of new systems that affect key operations. For these and other reasons, the sales cycle associated with our solutions can be lengthy and subject to a number of significant risks, over which we have little or no control. Because of the growing sales cycle and the likelihood that we may rely on a small number of customers for our revenues, our operating results would be seriously harmed if such revenues do not materialize when anticipated, or at all. 13 We depend on cable industry capital spending for our revenue and any decrease or delay in such spending would adversely affect our prospects. Demand for our products will depend on the size and timing of capital expenditures by MSOs. These capital spending patterns are dependent upon factors including: •the availability of cash or financing; •budgetary issues; •regulation and/or deregulation of the cable industry; •competitive pressures; •alternative technologies; •overall demand for broadband services, particularly relatively new services such as VoIP; •industry standards; •the pattern of increasing consolidation in the industry; and •general consumer spending and overall economic conditions. If MSOs and telecommunications service providers do not make significant capital expenditures, our prospects would be adversely affected. Competition may result in lower average selling prices, and we may be unable to reduce our costs at offsetting rates, which may impair our ability to achieve profitability. There has been significant price erosion in the broadband equipment field. We expect that continued price competition among broadband access equipment and systems suppliers will reduce our gross margins in the future. We anticipate that the average selling prices of broadband access solutions will continue to decline as product technologies mature. We may be unable to reduce our manufacturing costs in response to declining average per unit selling prices. Our competitors may be able to achieve greater economies of scale and may be less vulnerable to the effects of price competition than we are. These declines in average selling prices will generally lead to declines in gross margins and profitability for these solutions. If we are unable to reduce our costs to offset declines in average selling prices, we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability. If the communications, Internet and cable television industries do not grow and evolve in a manner favorable to our business strategy, our business may be seriously harmed. Our future success depends upon the growth of the communications industry, the cable television industry and, in particular, the Internet. These markets continue to evolve rapidly because of advances in technology and changes in customer demand. We cannot predict growth rates or future trends in technology development. It is possible that cable operators, telecommunications companies or other suppliers of broadband services will decide to adopt alternative architectures or technologies that are incompatible with our current or future products. If we are unable to design, develop, manufacture and sell solutions that incorporate or are compatible with these new architectures or technologies, our business will suffer. Also, decisions by customers to adopt new technologies or products are often delayed by extensive evaluation and qualifications processes and can result in delays of current products. In addition, the deregulation, privatization and economic globalization of the worldwide communications market, which resulted in increased competition and escalating demand for new technologies and services, may not continue in a manner favorable to us or our business strategies. In 14 addition, the growth in demand for Internet services and the resulting need for high-speed or enhanced communications products may not continue at its current rate or at all. The loss of one or more of our key customers would result in a loss of a significant amount of our revenues and adversely affect our business. A relatively small number of customers account for a large percentage of our revenues. We expect that we will continue to depend on a limited number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenues in future periods. The loss of a major customer could seriously harm our ability to sustain revenue levels, which would seriously harm our operating results. A significant portion of our revenues in the year ended March 31, 2008 was from sales of our wireless products, a business for which we have ceased all marketing and support functions. In this regard, our future revenues must be derived from our cable solutions. If we do not effectively manage our costs, our business could be substantially harmed. We will need to continue to monitor closely our costs and expenses. If the market for our cable solutions does not expand or takes longer to develop than we expect, we may need to further reduce our operations. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, we may not be able to compete and our ability to provide unique products may be compromised. Our success depends in part on our ability to protect our proprietary technologies. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets and confidentiality and other contractual provisions to establish and protect our proprietary rights. Our pending or future patent applications may not be approved and the claims covered by such applications may be reduced. If allowed, our patents may not be of sufficient scope or strength, and others may independently develop similar technologies or products. Litigation, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our efforts, may also be necessary to enforce any patents issued or licensed to us or to determine the scope and validity of third party proprietary rights. Any such litigation, regardless of the outcome, could be expensive and time consuming, and adverse determinations in any such litigation could seriously harm our business. Similarly, our pending or future trademark applications may not be approved and may not be sufficient to protect our trademarks in the markets where we either do business or hope to conduct business. The inability to secure any necessary trademark rights could be costly and could seriously harm our business. We regularly evaluate and seek to explore and develop derivative products relating to our cable solutions. We may not be able to secure all desired intellectual property protection relating to such derivative products. Furthermore, because of the rapid pace of change in the broadband industry, much of our business and many of our products rely on technologies that evolve constantly and this continuing uncertainty makes it difficult to forecast future demand for our products. We may not be able to successfully operate businesses that we may acquire, in a cost-effective and non-disruptive manner and realize anticipated benefits. We may explore investments in or acquisitions of other companies, products or technologies, including companies or technologies that are not complementary or related to our current solutions. We ultimately may be unsuccessful in operating and/or integrating an acquired company's personnel, operations, products and technologies into our business. These difficulties may disrupt our ongoing business, divert the time and attention of our management and employees and increase our expenses. 15 Moreover, the anticipated benefits of any acquisition may not be realized or may not be realized in the time period we expect. Future acquisitions could result in dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses related to goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets and the incurrence of large and immediate write-offs, any of which could seriously harm our business. In addition, we could spend significant resources in searching for and investigating new business opportunities, and ultimately may be unsuccessful in acquiring new businesses. Our participation or lack of participation in industry standards groups may adversely affect our business. We do not participate in the standards process of the Cable Television Laboratories, Inc., a cable industry consortium that establishes cable technology standards and administers compliance testing. In the future, we may determine to join or not join other standards or similar organizations. Our membership in these organizations could dilute our proprietary intellectual property rights in our products while our failure to participate in others could jeopardize acceptance of any of our products that do not meet industry standards. Product standardization, as may result from initiatives of MSOs, could adversely affect our prospects. Product standardization initiatives encouraged by MSOs and telecommunications companies may adversely affect revenues, gross margins and profits. In the past, standardization efforts by major MSOs have negatively impacted equipment vendors by leading to equipment obsolescence, commoditization and reduced margins. If our solutions do not comply with future standards, our prospects could be adversely affected. Our quarterly operating results fluctuate, which may cause our share price to further decline. Our quarterly operating results have varied significantly in the past and are likely to vary significantly in the future. These variations result from a number of factors, including: •the uncertain timing and level of market acceptance for our solutions and the uncertain timing and extent of rollouts of broadband access equipment and systems by the major service providers; •the fact that we often recognize a substantial proportion of our revenues in the last few weeks of each quarter; •the ability of our existing and potential direct customers to obtain financing for the deployment of broadband access equipment and systems; •the mix of solutions sold by us and the mix of sales channels through which they are sold; •reductions in pricing by us or our competitors; •global economic conditions; •the effectiveness of our system integrator customers in marketing and selling their network systems equipment; •changes in the prices or delays in deliveries of the components we purchase or license; and •any acquisitions or dispositions we may effect. A delay in the recognition of revenue, even from one customer, could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations for a given period. Also, because only a small portion of our expenses vary with our revenues, if revenue levels for a quarter fall below our expectations, we would 16 not be able to timely adjust expenses accordingly, which would harm our operating results in that period. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. If our operating results fall below the expectations of investors in future periods, our share price would likely decline. Because we rely on international suppliers, we are exposed to additional risks which could cause our operations to suffer. Our reliance on international suppliers exposes us to foreign political and economic risks, which may impair our ability to generate revenues. These risks include: •economic, inflation and political instability; •terrorist acts, international conflicts and acts of war; •changes in regulatory requirements and licensing frequencies to service providers; •import or export licensing requirements and tariffs; •labor shortages or stoppages; •trade restrictions and tax policies; and •limited protection of intellectual property rights. Any of the foregoing difficulties of conducting business internationally could seriously harm our business. Because we do not have contracts with our customers, our customers can discontinue purchases of our solutions at any time, which could adversely affect future revenues and operating results. We generally sell our cable solutions based on individual purchase orders. Our customers are not obligated by agreements to purchase our solutions, and the agreements we have entered into do not obligate our customers to purchase a minimum number of solutions. Our customers can generally cancel or reschedule orders on short notice and discontinue using our solutions at any time. Further, having a successful field system trial does not necessarily mean that the customer will order large volumes of our solutions. The reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from one or more of our customers could seriously harm our operating results. Competition may decrease our market share, net revenues and gross margins. The market for broadband access equipment and systems is intensely competitive, rapidly evolving and subject to rapid technological change. The main competitive factors in our markets include: •product performance, features and reliability; •price; •stability; 17 •scope of product line; •sales and distribution capabilities; •technical service and support; •relationships, particularly those with system integrators and operators; and •industry standards. Certain of our competitors and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, distribution, marketing and other resources than we have and, therefore, may be able to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities, technologies and other developments. In addition, many of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, broader product lines and established relationships with system integrators and service providers. Our primary competitors are Cisco Systems, Inc.; Motorola, Inc.; BigBand Networks, Inc.; C-Cor Incorporated; Arris Group, Inc.; Aurora Networks and Harmonic Inc. Most of these competitors have existing relationships with one or more of our prospective customers. Our cable solutions face competition from technologies such as digital set-top boxes, high-end compression technologies and DVRs. Furthermore, the move toward open standards may increase the number of operators who will offer new services, which in turn may increase the number of competitors and drive down the capital expenditures per subscriber deployed. We may not be able to compete successfully against our current and future competitors, and competitive pressures could seriously harm our business. Hardware defects or firmware errors could increase our costs and impair the market acceptance of our solutions, which would adversely affect our future operating results. Our solutions occasionally contain certain defects or errors. This may result either from defects in components supplied by third parties or from errors or defects in our firmware or hardware that we have not detected. We have in the past experienced, and may experience from time-to-time, defects in new or enhanced solutions after shipments, or defects in deployed solutions. This could occur in connection with stability or other performance problems. Our customers integrate our solutions into their networks with components from other vendors. Accordingly, when problems occur in a network system, it may be difficult to identify the component that caused the problem. Regardless of the source of these defects or errors, we will need to divert the attention of our very limited engineering personnel from our product development efforts to address the defect or error. Given the significant reductions we have made to our research and development department, we may not be successful in efficiently addressing any such defect or error. We have incurred in the past and may again incur significant warranty and repair costs related to defects or errors, and we also may be subject to liability claims for damages related to these defects or errors. The occurrence of defects or errors, whether caused by our solutions or the components of another vendor, may result in significant customer relationship problems and injury to our reputation and may impair the market acceptance of our solutions. We depend on contract manufacturers and third party equipment and technology suppliers, and these manufacturers and suppliers may be unable to fill our orders or develop compatible, required technology on a timely basis, which would result in delays that could seriously harm our results of operations. We currently have relationships with a limited number of contract manufacturers for the manufacturing of our products, substantially all of whom are located in Taiwan. These relationships may be terminated by either party with little or no notice. If our manufacturers are unable or unwilling to continue manufacturing our solutions in required volumes, we would have to identify qualified alternative manufacturers, which would result in delays causing our results of operations to suffer. Our relatively limited experience with these manufacturers and lack of visibility as to the manufacturing 18 capabilities of these companies if our volume requirements significantly increase does not provide us with a reliable basis on which to project their ability to meet delivery schedules, yield targets or costs. If we are required to find alternative manufacturing sources, we may not be able to satisfy our production requirements at acceptable prices and on a timely basis, if at all. Any significant interruption in supply would affect the allocation of solutions to customers, which in turn could seriously harm our business. In addition to sales to system integrators, we also sell in some instances directly to service providers. Such direct sales require us to resell equipment to service providers manufactured by third party suppliers and to integrate this equipment with the solutions we manufacture. We are particularly dependent on third party radio suppliers in selling our 3GHz and other solutions. We currently have limited relationships with third party suppliers. If we are unable to establish meaningful relationships with suppliers, or if these suppliers are unable to provide equipment that meets the specifications of our customers on the delivery schedules required by our customers, and at acceptable prices, our business would be substantially harmed. Our UltraBand solutions are implemented over the HFC plant and, as such, they interface and integrate with existing products from multiple other vendors. Future offerings by these vendors may not be sufficiently compatible with our UltraBand solutions. In addition, we depend on the continuous delivery of components by various manufacturers of electronic connectors, filters, boards and transistors. Furthermore, we have produced certain of our solutions only in limited quantities. If demand for these solutions increases significantly, we will need to implement and address additional processes, procedures and activities necessary to support increased production. If we are unable to do so, our business would be substantially harmed. We obtain some of the components included in our solutions from a single source or a limited group of suppliers, and the loss of any of these suppliers or delay or shortages in the supply of components could cause production delays and a substantial loss of revenue. We currently obtain key components from a limited number of suppliers, and some of these components are obtained from a single source supplier. We generally do not have long-term supply contracts with our suppliers. Further, we have experienced delays and shortages on more than one occasion. These factors present us with the following risks: •delays in delivery or shortages in components could interrupt and delay manufacturing and result in cancellation of orders for our solutions; •suppliers could increase component prices significantly and with immediate effect; •we may not be able to develop alternative sources for components, if or as required in the future; •suppliers could discontinue the manufacture or supply of components used in our solutions. In such event, we might need to modify our solutions, which may cause delays in shipments, increased manufacturing costs and increased prices; and •we may hold more inventory than is immediately required to compensate for potential component shortages or discontinuation. The occurrence of any of these or similar events would harm our business. Our inability to obtain adequate manufacturing capacity at acceptable prices, or any delay or interruption in supply, could reduce our revenues or increase our cost of revenue and could seriously harm our business. 19 Third parties may bring infringement claims against us that could harm our ability to sell our solutions and result in substantial liabilities. Third parties could assert, and it could be found, that our solutions infringe their proprietary rights. We could incur substantial costs to defend any litigation, and intellectual property litigation could force us to do one or more of the following: •obtain licenses to the infringing technology; •pay substantial damages under applicable law; •cease the manufacture, use and sale of infringing solutions; or •expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology. Any infringement claim or litigation against us could significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Government regulation and industry standards may increase our costs of doing business, limit our potential markets or require changes to our business model and adversely affect our business. The emergence or evolution of regulations and industry standards for broadband products, through official standards committees or widespread use by operators, could require us to modify our solutions, which may be expensive and time-consuming, and to incur substantial compliance costs. Some of our solutions and technology are subject to export control laws and regulations. We are subject to the risk that more stringent export control requirements could be imposed in the future on product classes that include solutions exported by us, which would result in additional compliance burdens and could impair the enforceability of our contract rights. We may not be able to renew our export licenses as necessary from time to time. In addition, we may be required to apply for additional licenses to cover modifications and enhancements to our products. Any revocation or expiration of any requisite license, the failure to obtain a license for product modifications and enhancements, or more stringent export control requirements could seriously harm our business. Transfers of our securities may be restricted by virtue of state securities "blue sky" laws which prohibit trading absent compliance with individual state laws. These restrictions may make it difficult or impossible to sell shares in those states. Transfers of our common stock may be restricted under the securities or securities regulations laws promulgated by various states and foreign jurisdictions, commonly referred to as "blue sky" laws. Absent compliance with such individual state laws, our common stock may not be traded in such jurisdictions. Because the securities held by stockholders generally have not been registered for resale under the blue sky laws of any state, the holders of such shares and persons who desire to purchase them should be aware that there may be significant state blue sky law restrictions upon the ability of investors to sell the securities and of purchasers to purchase the securities. These restrictions may prohibit the secondary trading of our common stock. Investors should consider the secondary market for our securities to be a limited one. We are subject to the penny stock rules and these rules may adversely affect trading in our common stock. Our common stock is a "penny stock" security under rules promulgated under the Exchange Act. In accordance with these rules, broker-dealers participating in transactions in such securities must first deliver a risk disclosure document that describes the risks associated with such stocks, the broker-dealer's duties in selling the stock, the customer's rights and remedies and certain market and other information. Furthermore, the broker-dealer must make a suitability determination approving the 20 customer for low-priced stock transactions based on the customer's financial situation, investment experience and objectives. The effect of these restrictions may decrease the willingness of broker-dealers to make a market in our common stock and may decrease the liquidity of our common stock. Our success depends significantly on Davidi Gilo, our Chairman of the Board of Directors, and Wayne H. Davis, our Chief Executive Officer, the loss of either of whom could seriously harm our business. Our future success depends in large part on the continued services of our senior management and key personnel. In particular, we significantly depend on the services of Davidi Gilo, our chairman of the board of directors, and Wayne H. Davis, our chief executive officer. We do not carry key person life insurance on our senior management or key personnel. Any loss of the services of Messrs. Gilo or Davis or other members of senior management or other key personnel could seriously harm our business. Recent regulations related to equity compensation could adversely affect earnings, affect our ability to raise capital and affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Since our inception, we have used stock options as a fundamental component of our employee compensation packages. We believe that our stock option plans are an important tool to link the long-term interests of stockholders and employees, especially executive management, and serve to motivate management to make decisions that will, in the long run, give the best returns to stockholders. FASB has adopted changes to generally accepted accounting principals in the United States that require us to record a charge to earnings for employee stock option grants, as well as other equity based awards. The change has negatively impacted our earnings and, if such impact is material in the future, could affect our ability to raise capital on acceptable terms. To the extent these regulations make it more difficult or unacceptably expensive to grant stock options to employees, we may incur increased compensation costs, change our equity compensation strategy or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business. The government programs and benefits we receive require us to satisfy prescribed conditions. These programs and benefits may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase our costs and taxes and could seriously harm our business. Certain of our capital investments have been granted "approved enterprise" status under Israeli law providing us with certain Israeli tax benefits. The benefits available to an approved enterprise are conditioned upon the fulfillment of conditions stipulated in applicable law and in the specific certificate of approval. If we fail to comply with these conditions, in whole or in part, we may be required to pay additional taxes for the period in which we enjoyed the tax benefits and would likely be denied these benefits in the future. From time to time, the government of Israel has considered reducing or eliminating the benefits available under the approved enterprise program. These tax benefits may not be continued in the future at their current levels or at all. The termination or reduction of these benefits would increase our taxes and could seriously harm our business. As of the date hereof, our Israeli subsidiaries have accumulated loss carry forwards for Israeli tax purposes and therefore have not enjoyed any tax benefits under current approved enterprise programs. In the past, we have received grants from the government of Israel for the financing of a portion of our research and development expenditures for previous products in Israel. The regulations under which we received these grants restrict our ability to manufacture products or transfer technology outside of Israel for products developed with this technology. Furthermore, these grants may not be available to us in the future. 21 As of April 1, 2005, the government of Israel eliminated the ability of companies to submit new applications for approved enterprise status. This change in the government policy may hinder us in the future with respect to any benefits we may have received for new undertakings which would have been entitled to "approved enterprise" status. We may lose our United States income tax net operating loss carryforwards if we experience a significant change in ownership. The utilization of net operating loss carryforwards may be subject to substantial annual limitations if there has been a significant "change in ownership." Any "change in ownership," as described in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, may substantially limit our ability to utilize the net operating losses carryforwards. As of March 31, 2008, we had United States federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $94,148,000, which will expire between 2011 through 2028 and state net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $75,046,000 which will expire between 2008 through 2018. Several of our directors and certain officers have relationships with Davidi Gilo and his affiliated companies that could be deemed to limit their independence. Several members of our board of directors, Lewis Broad, Neill Brownstein (who resigned effective as of June 26, 2008), Avraham Fischer, Samuel Kaplan and Alan Zimmerman, have had professional relationships with Davidi Gilo, our chairman of the board of directors and former chief executive officer, and his affiliated companies for several years. These members of our board of directors previously served on the boards of directors of DSP Communications, Inc. and/or DSP Group, Inc., of which Mr. Gilo was formerly the controlling stockholder and the chairman of the board. In addition, Avraham Fischer is a senior partner of the law firm of Fischer, Behar, Chen & Co., which represents us on matters relating to Israeli law, is an investor and co-chief executive officer of an Israeli investor group in which Mr. Gilo was an investor until October 2005, and is co-chief executive officer and a director of Clal Industries and Investments, Ltd., which has made a significant investment in ANI, a related party of our company. The long-term relationships between these directors and officers and Mr. Gilo and his affiliated companies could be considered to limit their independence. Because our management has the ability to control stockholder votes, the premium over market price that an acquirer might otherwise pay could be reduced and any merger or takeover could be delayed. As of March 31, 2008, our management collectively owned approximately 33.95% of our outstanding common stock (based on the number of shares owned by these individuals and the number of shares issuable upon exercise of options within 60 days of March 31, 2008). As a result, these stockholders, acting together, will be able to control the outcome of all matters submitted for stockholder action, including: •electing members to our board of directors; •approving significant change-in-control transactions; •determining the amount and timing of dividends paid to themselves and to our public stockholders; and •controlling our management and operations. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business consolidation involving us, or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our shares. This concentration of ownership could also negatively affect our stock's market price or decrease any premium over market price that an acquirer might otherwise pay. 22 Because stock markets are likely to continue to experience extreme price and volume fluctuations, the price of our stock may decline. The market price of our shares has been and likely will continue to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors, including the following: •actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results or those of our competitors; •announcements by us or our competitors of new products or technological innovations; •introduction and adoption of new industry standards; •changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; •changes in the market valuations of our competitors; •announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or partnerships; and •sales of our common stock. Many of these factors are beyond our control and may negatively impact the market price of our common stock, regardless of our performance. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for technology and telecommunications related companies in particular, have been highly volatile. Our common stock may not trade at the same levels compared to shares of other technology companies and shares of technology companies, in general, may not sustain their current market prices. To date, the trading volume in our common stock generally has been relatively low and significant price fluctuations can occur as a result. If the generally low trading volumes experienced to date continue, such price fluctuations could continue in the future and the sale prices of our common stock could decline significantly. Investors may therefore have difficulty selling their shares. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We could become the target of similar litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources, which could seriously harm our business and operating results. Provisions of our governing documents and Delaware law could discourage acquisition proposals or delay a change in control. Our Fifth Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws contain anti-takeover provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if that change in control would be beneficial to stockholders. Specifically: •our board of directors has the authority to issue common stock and preferred stock and to determine the price, rights and preferences of any new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval; •our board of directors is divided into three classes, each serving three-year terms; •super majority voting is required to amend key provisions of our Fifth Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws; •there are limitations on who can call special meetings of stockholders; •stockholders are not able to take action by written consent; and •advance notice is required for nominations of directors and for stockholder proposals. In addition, provisions of Delaware law and our stock option plans may also discourage, delay or prevent a change of control or unsolicited acquisition proposals. 23 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 