Risk Factors Relating to Our Business You should consider carefully the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this prospectus supplement or incorporated by reference into this prospectus supplement. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. Since we have a limited operating history, a history of operating losses and an expectation that we will generate operating losses for the foreseeable future, we may not achieve profitability for some time, if at all. Until recently, we have been focused solely on drug development and currently have no commercial sales. We have incurred losses each year of operation and we expect to continue incurring operating losses for the foreseeable future. The process of developing our products requires significant preclinical testing and clinical studies as well as regulatory approvals for commercialization and marketing before we can begin to generate any revenue from product sales. In addition, commercialization of our drug candidates will require us to establish a sales and marketing organization and contractual relationships to enable product manufacturing, distribution and other related activities. We expect that these activities, together with our general and administrative expenses, will result in substantial operating losses for the foreseeable future. As of December 31, 2005, our accumulated deficit was $254.7 million. For the year ended December 31, 2005 our consolidated net loss was $40.9 million. We have only one drug that has been approved for commercial sale by the FDA, IPLEX™, and we are in the earlier stages of researching and developing two other drug candidates, INSM-18 and rhIGFBP-3. Until we have had an opportunity to establish IPLEX as a commercially viable product or complete the development and commercialization of our other drug candidates, we cannot predict our future revenue with any degree of certainty. For these and other reasons, our independent registered public accounting firm believes that there is substantial doubt that we will be able to continue as a going concern. If we do not continue as a going concern our investors will likely lose all of their investments. Third-party claims that our products infringe on their proprietary rights may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Third parties have claimed that we are infringing or have misappropriated their proprietary rights and we can give no assurances that other third parties will not claim that we and our licensees who develop and distribute our products, are infringing their proprietary rights. It is difficult to predict with any certainty the outcome of any legal proceeding. If third parties successfully bring legal action against us or our licensees claiming patent or other intellectual property infringement, in addition to any potential liability for damages, including compensatory damages and treble damages, a court could require us and/or our licensees to cease using any infringing processes or manufacturing and selling any infringing products. Such a result would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any such claim, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation, require us to pay significant settlement amounts or require us and/or our licensees to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, all of which could delay or otherwise adversely impact the development of our potential products for commercial use. If a court determines that we may not manufacture or sell our products or use our processes without having obtained licenses, there can be no assurance that we and/or our licensees will be able to obtain them on commercially favorable terms, if at all. Without such licenses, we and/or our licensees may be unable to develop certain products. Our breach of an existing license or our failure to obtain, or our delay in obtaining, a license to any technology that we require to commercialize our products may materially adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. With respect to any infringement claim asserted by a third party, we can give no assurances that we will be successful in the litigation or that such litigation would not have a material adverse effect on our business, 22 Table of Contents financial condition and results of operation. In the event of a successful claim against us for infringement or misappropriation of a third party’s proprietary rights, we may be required to: • pay damages, including up to treble damages, and the other party’s attorneys’ fees, which may be substantial; • cease the development, manufacture, marketing and sale of products or use of processes that infringe the proprietary rights of others; • expend significant resources to redesign our products or our processes so that they do not infringe the proprietary rights of others, which may not be possible; • redesign our products or processes to avoid third party proprietary rights, we may suffer significant regulatory delays associated with conducting additional clinical trials or other steps to obtain regulatory approval; and • obtain one or more licenses arising out of a settlement of litigation or otherwise from third parties for the infringed proprietary rights, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. In this regard, we note that on December 20, 2004, Tercica, Inc. and Genentech, Inc. filed a complaint against Avecia Limited and us in the United Kingdom at the High Court of Justice, Chancery Division, Patents Court alleging infringement of EP patent No. 571,417, or the ‘417 patent. The ‘417 patent has claims directed to particular uses of a combination of IGFBP-3 and IGF-1. In the complaint, Tercica asked the court for an injunction to restrain allegedly infringing activity, for a declaration that the ‘417 patent is valid and infringed, for an order requiring the delivery or destruction of allegedly infringing articles and materials and for an inquiry into possible economic damages. In May 2005, we filed for summary judgment to dismiss the complaint. The motion for summary judgment was denied. A trial date in this litigation has not been set. In addition, on December 23, 2004, Genentech and Tercica sued us for infringement of U.S. Patent Nos. 5,187,151 and 6,331,414 in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. These patents are directed to certain methods of using rhIGF-1/rhIGFBP-3 and methods of producing rhIGF-1, respectively. On February 16, 2005, Tercica filed an amended complaint, adding an infringement allegation against us with respect to U.S. Patent No. 5,528,287, or the ‘287 patent. The claims of the ‘287 patent are directed to DNA encoding BP53 (i.e. IGFBP-3) and recombinant constructs, transformed host cells and methods for using the same. Genentech and Tercica claim that the production or use of IPLEX, a complex of rhIGF-1/rhIGFBP-3, will infringe these patents. We moved to dismiss the amended complaint for lack of jurisdiction and on other grounds. At a hearing on the motion on April 15, 2005, the court granted our motion and dismissed the case with leave for plaintiffs to refile the complaint. A second amended complaint was filed on April 22, 2005 by Genentech and Tercica against us that, among other things added Celtrix Pharmaceuticals, our wholly-owned subsidiary, as a defendant. We moved to dismiss the portion of the second amended complaint that relates to the ‘287 patent. On June 29, 2005, the Court denied our motion to dismiss. On July 14, 2005, we filed our answer and counterclaims, in which we denied infringement and sought a declaratory judgment that the asserted patents are not infringed, are invalid, and/or are unenforceable. The reply to the counterclaims by Genentech and Tercica was filed on August 5, 2005. On October 17, 2005, Tercica and Genentech filed a third amended complaint adding Insmed Therapeutic Proteins, our wholly-owned subsidiary, as a defendant. The answer and counterclaims in response to the third amended complaint were filed by us on October 27, 2005. Briefing on patent claim construction issues and summary judgment motions is set to be completed by May 5, 2006, with a claim construction hearing scheduled for May 19, 2006. Discovery is ongoing and a trial date is scheduled for November 2006. On May 27, 2005, Genentech and Tercica filed a motion for preliminary injunction seeking an order barring us, until trial, from making, using or selling the drug called “SomatoKine,” (now known as IPLEX) with respect to its allegations of infringement of U.S. Patent Nos. 6,331,414 and 5,187,151, and requesting that we be required to share any Orphan Drug Exclusivity it obtains with Tercica. We filed an opposition to the motion for a Preliminary Injunction on June 10, 2005. On June 16, 2005, Genentech and Tercica withdrew their motion for a preliminary injunction, but reserved the right to refile the motion for a preliminary injunction. We cannot predict whether Genentech and Tercica will seek a preliminary injunction at another time. 23 Table of Contents We cannot predict with certainty the outcome of proceedings involving Tercica and Genentech. The claim construction ruling and summary judgment rulings to be issued by the court, which could occur in the next few months, could have an adverse impact on our position in this proceeding, including by narrowing or limiting our defenses. An adverse ruling after trial on any of the claims alleged would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and would lead to some or all of the consequences described above, such as damages and the requirement that we cease manufacture and sale of IPLEX unless we can obtain a license or develop or acquire alternative products or processes that do not infringe the patents, which may not be available on commercially favorable terms, if at all. Further, we may have an obligation to indemnify distributors if IPLEX and other third parties. In addition, if such adverse ruling requires us to cease the manufacture and sale of IPLEX and we are unable to raise the capital that would be necessary to conduct the clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approval of our other product candidates, we could be forced to curtail our development programs and possibly to cease operations altogether. These proceedings have required a substantial diversion of financial and personnel resources from operations. Further, defending any future patent infringement claims will also require that we divert financial and personnel resources from operations and may expose us to liabilities for costs or other damage awards. We face uncertainties related to patents and proprietary technology that may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success will depend in part on our ability to: • obtain patent protection for our products; • prevent third parties from infringing our patents; and • refrain from infringing the patents of others, both domestically and internationally. Our patent positions are highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions, and any future patents we receive for our potential products will be subject to this uncertainty, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We intend to actively pursue patent protection for products resulting from our research and development activities that have significant potential commercial value. Nevertheless, due to the inherent uncertainty of the patent process, it is possible that, in the patent application process, certain claims may be rejected or achieve such limited allowance that the value of the patents would be diminished. Further, there can be no assurance that any patents obtained will afford us adequate protection. In addition, any patents we procure may require cooperation with companies holding related patents. We may have difficulty forming a successful relationship with these other companies. Third parties have claimed that we are infringing or have misappropriated their proprietary rights. We can give no assurance that other third parties will not make similar claims. Various third parties have obtained, and are attempting to obtain, patent protection relating to the production and use of our approved product and product candidates. We can give no assurances as to whether any issued patents, or patents that may later issue to third parties, would affect our contemplated commercialization of IPLEX or any other product. We can give no assurances that such patents can be avoided, invalidated or licensed. Furthermore, litigation with any third party, even if the allegations are without merit, would likely be expensive and time-consuming and divert management’s attention. Any conclusions we may have reached regarding non-infringement and invalidity are based in part on a review of publicly available databases and other information. There may be information not available to or otherwise not reviewed by us that might change our conclusions. Moreover, as described above, the scope and validity of patent claims are determined based on many facts and circumstances, and in a litigation a court may reach a different conclusion on any given patent claim than the conclusions that we have reached. 24 Table of Contents We note that third parties with significant financial resources, including Genentech, Inc., Novartis and Chiron Corporation hold United States and/or foreign patents possibly directed to the composition, production and/or use of rhIGF-1, rhIGFBP-3, IPLEX and/or recombinant proteins. We can provide no assurance that any one of these third parties will not assert an infringement action against us that may adversely affect our ability to make, use or sell our products. We may have to undertake costly litigation to enforce any patents issued or licensed to us or to determine the scope and validity of another party’s proprietary rights. We can give no assurances that a court of competent jurisdiction would validate our issued or licensed patents. An adverse outcome in litigation or an interference or other proceeding in a court or patent office could result in the invalidation of our patents and could otherwise materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. All of our products are currently in, or have just completed, the research and development stage. If we are unable to commercialize them it will materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if we are successful in developing and obtaining approval for our drug candidates, there are numerous circumstances that could prevent the successful commercialization of the products such as: • the regulatory approvals of our products are delayed or we are required to conduct further research and development of our products prior to receiving regulatory approval; • we are unable to build a sales and marketing group to successfully launch and sell our products; • we are unable to raise the additional funds needed to successfully develop and commercialize our products or acquire additional products for growth; • we are required to allocate available funds to litigation matters; • we are unable to manufacture the quantity of product needed in accordance with current good manufacturing practices to meet market demand, or at all; • our product is determined to be ineffective or unsafe following approval and is removed from the market or we are required to perform additional research and development to further prove the safety and effectiveness of the product before re-entry into the market; • competition from other products or technologies prevents or reduces market acceptance of our products; • we do not have and cannot obtain the intellectual property rights needed to manufacture or market our products without infringing on another company’s patents; • we are unsuccessful in defending against patent infringement claims being brought against us our products or technologies; or • we are unable to obtain reimbursement for our product or such reimbursement may be less than is necessary to produce a reasonable profit. Our growth strategy includes the commercialization of more than one product. We may not be able to identify and acquire complementary products, businesses or technologies and if acquired or licensed, they might not improve our business, financial condition or results of operations. We currently have limited sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, which may make commercializing our products difficult. If we are unable to build sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, it will materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Now that the FDA has permitted us to commence commercial sales of IPLEX, we must establish capabilities to complete the commercial sale, marketing and distribution of IPLEX. These are areas in which we 25 Table of Contents have no experience. To market IPLEX or any of our products directly, we must develop a marketing and sales force with technical expertise and with supporting distribution capability. We may engage a pharmaceutical company with a large distribution system and a large direct sales force to assist us in marketing IPLEX outside the United States or in marketing any of our other products. There can be no assurance that we will successfully establish sales and distribution capabilities or establish third-party sales and distribution arrangements on satisfactory terms, or at all. To the extent we enter into co-promotion, licensing, third-party sales or distribution agreements, any revenues we receive will depend on the efforts of third parties and there can be no assurance that our efforts will succeed. Failure to successfully sell, market or distribute our products once approved will materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our products fail to achieve market acceptance for any reason, such failure may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that any of our approved drug and our drug candidates, if approved for marketing, will achieve market acceptance. If our drugs and drug candidates, once approved, do not receive market acceptance for any reason, it will adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The degree of market acceptance of any drugs we develop will depend on a number of factors, including: • the establishment and demonstration in the medical community of the clinical efficacy and safety of our drugs; • their potential advantage over existing and future treatment methods; • their price; and • reimbursement policies of government and third-party payers, including hospitals and insurance companies. For example, even after we obtain regulatory approval to sell our products, physicians and healthcare payers could conclude that our products are not safe and effective and physicians could choose not to use them to treat patients. Our competitors may also develop new technologies or products which are more effective or less costly, or that seem more cost-effective than our products. In addition, legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceuticals may change in ways adverse to us. While we cannot predict the likelihood of any such legislative or regulatory proposals, if the government or an agency adopts such proposals, they could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If there are fewer children with Severe Primary IGFD than we estimate, we may not generate sufficient revenues to continue development of other products or to continue operations, or we may not be able to complete our clinical studies. We estimate that the number of children in the United States with Severe Primary IGFD is approximately 6,000. Our estimate of the size of the patient population is based on our interpretation of published studies. If our interpretation and extrapolation of data from these published studies do not accurately reflect the number of children with Severe Primary IGFD, our assessment of the market may be incorrect and we may not achieve sufficient revenue to continue operations. Reimbursement policies and changes in the health care system may adversely affect the sale of our current and future products or our ability to obtain an adequate level of reimbursement or acceptable prices for our current and future products. Our ability to earn sufficient returns on IPLEX or our other products, if and when such products are approved and ready for marketing, will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for our products and 26 Table of Contents related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, private health coverage insurers, managed care organizations and other third-party payers. If we fail to obtain appropriate reimbursement, it could prevent us from successfully commercializing our future products. There have been and continue to be efforts by governmental and third-party payers to contain or reduce the costs of health care through various means, including limiting coverage and the level of reimbursement. We expect that there will continue to be a number of legislative proposals to implement government controls and other reforms to limit coverage and reimbursement. The announcement of these proposals or reforms could impair our ability to raise capital. The adoption of these proposals or reforms could impair our operations and financial condition. Additionally, third-party payers, including Medicare, are increasingly challenging the price of medical products and services and are limiting the reimbursement levels offered to consumers for these medical products and services. If purchasers or users of our future products are not able to obtain adequate reimbursement from third-party payers for the cost of using these products, they may forego or reduce their use. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products and whether adequate third-party coverage will be available. We cannot provide any assurance that third-party payers will provide adequate reimbursement, if any, for IPLEX. We cannot be certain that we will obtain additional regulatory approvals in the United States and Europe. The failure to obtain such approvals may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are required to obtain various regulatory approvals prior to studying our drug products in humans and then again before we market and distribute our products. The regulatory review and approval process required to perform a clinical study in both the United States and Europe includes evaluation of preclinical studies and clinical studies, as well as the evaluation of our manufacturing process and is complex, lengthy, expensive, resource intensive and uncertain. Securing regulatory approval to market our products also requires the submission of extensive preclinical and clinical data, manufacturing information regarding the process and facility, scientific data characterizing our product and other supporting data to the regulatory authorities in order to establish its safety and effectiveness. This process is also complex, lengthy, expensive, resource intensive and uncertain. We have limited experience in filing and pursuing applications necessary to gain these regulatory approvals. Data submitted to the regulators is subject to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory agency approval. We may also encounter delays or rejections based on changes in regulatory agency policies during the period in which we develop a drug and/or the period required for review of any application for regulatory agency approval of a particular product. Delays in obtaining regulatory agency approvals could adversely affect the marketing of any drugs that our collaborative partners or we develop. Such delays could impose costly procedures on our collaborative partners’ or our activities, diminish any competitive advantages that our collaborative partners or we may attain and adversely affect our ability to receive royalties, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are currently conducting a Phase III clinical trial of IPLEX in patients with Severe Primary IGFD and plan to include the data in a MAA submission to the EMEA. We must receive approval of these applications before we can market IPLEX in certain countries outside of the United States. As part of our normal development we continue to increase our scale of production and refine our manufacturing process. Because of these changes we are required to perform various comparability analyses to demonstrate that the drug product used in our previous development studies and for commercialization is essentially the same as the new drug product produced. We have had several discussions with the FDA and intend to have discussions with foreign regulatory agencies regarding our Phase III clinical study and this comparability analysis. We believe we understand what is required to satisfy the EMEA. We plan to submit this 27 Table of Contents data to the appropriate regulatory authorities as part of the regulatory process. If we do not properly understand what is required to satisfy regulatory authorities or if we are unable to produce comparable drug product or meet the regulatory requirements of comparability it will materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Regulatory authorities have substantial discretion in the approval of our drug candidates and may either refuse to accept our applications, or may decide after review of our applications that our data is insufficient to allow approval of IPLEX. If the EMEA does not accept or approve our application, it may require that we conduct additional clinical, preclinical or manufacturing studies and submit that data before it will reconsider our application. This could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if the FDA or the EMEA grants approval for a drug, such approval may limit the indicated uses for which we may market the drug, and this could limit the potential market for such drug. Furthermore, if we obtain approval for any of our products, the marketing and manufacture of such products remain subject to extensive regulatory requirements. Further, any such approval would be subject to continual review, and later discovery of unknown problems could restrict the products’ future use or cause their withdrawal from the market. Failure to comply with regulatory requirements could, among other things, result in fines, suspension of regulatory approvals, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. In addition, many countries require regulatory agency approval of pricing and may also require approval for the marketing in such countries of any drug that our collaborative partners or we develop. If the results of our Phase III clinical trial for IPLEX do not continue to support the approval of IPLEX or if we cannot produce comparable drug product, have not correctly understood the regulatory requirements associated with comparability of drug products or for various other reasons cannot satisfy ongoing regulatory requirements, we may not receive FDA and/or EMEA approvals or such approvals may be substantially delayed or withdrawn. Any of these events might prevent us from selling IPLEX in its approved indication or from expanding the market for IPLEX, either of which would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if we obtain approval for our products in the United States or the European Union, we cannot be certain that we will obtain any regulatory approvals in other countries. The failure to obtain such approvals may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In order to market our products outside of the United States and European Union territories, our corporate partners and we must comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries. The approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in these other territories might differ from that required to obtain FDA or EMEA approval. The regulatory approval process in these other territories includes at least all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA and EMEA approval detailed above. Approval by the FDA or the EMEA does not ensure approval by the regulatory authorities of other countries. The failure to obtain such approvals may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are currently a defendant in a civil action in which we are accused of deceptive promotional statements and unfair business practices. An unfavorable settlement or judgment in this action could harm our business and financial condition. On December 6, 2005, Tercica filed a complaint against us in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California alleging we made deceptive promotional statements and engaged in unfair business practices related to Tercica’s drug, Increlex, in violation of the California Business and Professions Code and the Federal Lanham Act. Tercica amended the complaint on December 15, 2005. Tercica is requesting injunctive and monetary relief. 28 Table of Contents Although we deny any liability, no assurances can be given as to the outcome of this action. An unfavorable settlement or decision could affect our ability to make, use or sell our products, and would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any liability resulting from this action may exceed our financial resources. The parties have not initiated discovery in this action and no trial date has been set. An inability to compete successfully will materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We engage in a business characterized by extensive research efforts, rapid developments and intense competition. We cannot assure that our products will compete successfully or that research and development by others will not render our products obsolete or uneconomical. Our failure to compete effectively would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We expect that successful competition will depend, among other things, on product efficacy, safety, reliability, availability, timing and scope of regulatory approval and price. Specifically, we expect crucial factors will include the relative speed with which we can develop products, complete the clinical testing and regulatory approval processes and supply commercial quantities of the product to the market. We expect competition to increase as technological advances are made and commercial applications broaden. In each of our potential product areas, we face substantial competition from large pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other companies, as well as universities and research institutions. Relative to us, most of these entities have substantially greater capital resources, research and development staffs, facilities and experience in conducting clinical studies and obtaining regulatory approvals, as well as in manufacturing and marketing pharmaceutical products. Many of our competitors may achieve product commercialization or patent protection earlier than we will. Furthermore, we believe that our competitors have used, and may continue to use, litigation to gain a competitive advantage. Finally, our competitors may use different technologies or approaches to the development of products similar to the products we are seeking to develop. Currently, we are aware of at least one other company, Tercica, that has received approval from the FDA for a rhIGF-1 product for an indication very similar to the indication for which IPLEX has been approved. Tercica’s product was approved for the long term treatment of growth failure in children with severe primary IGF-1 deficiency or with growth hormone gene deletion who have developed neutralizing antibodies to growth hormone. We believe this indication would include patients with Severe Primary IGFD. Because there are already patients using Tercica’s product, the market opportunity for IPLEX may be diminished if doctors who are already prescribing Tercica’s product to their patients are unwilling to switch their patients to a different drug. We believe Tercica may also be planning to develop rhIGF-1 for some of the same indications that we plan to pursue with IPLEX. Growth hormone may also be a competitive product for the treatment of some indications that we may pursue with IPLEX such as HIV associated adipose redistribution syndrome. The major suppliers of commercially available growth hormone are Genentech, Eli Lilly, Novo Nordisk, Pfizer and Serono. We believe that Novo Nordisk may be conducting clinical studies for the use of its growth hormone in pediatric IGF-1 deficiency. We are also aware that Serono is seeking regulatory approval for their growth hormone, Serostim™, for the treatment of HIV associated adipose redistribution syndrome, and that Theratechnologies is conducting Phase III studies for a growth hormone releasing agonist for the treatment of HIV associated adipose redistribution syndrome. In addition, we believe that Genentech, Merck, Novo Nordisk and Pfizer have previously conducted research and development of orally-available small molecules that cause the release of growth hormone, known as growth hormone secretagogues. We are not aware of any continued clinical development of these molecules by these companies. We believe that Rejuvenon Corporation may have licensed certain rights to Novo Nordisk’s growth hormone secretagogues, which are in preclinical development. We are also aware that Theratechnologies is developing various peptides that stimulate the release of hormones that could be used in the treatment of some of the same indications we plan to pursue with IPLEX. 29 Table of Contents Many companies are pursuing the development of products for the treatment of cancer. Our competitors include multinational pharmaceutical companies, specialized biotechnology firms, and universities and other research institutions. Although we are unaware of any companies developing rhIGFBP-3 for cancer, we are aware of companies that are developing products that are intended to target the same IGF-1 pathway as rhIGFBP-3. These companies include ImClone, Amgen, OSI Pharmaceuticals, Bristol-Myers Squibb and Genentech. Biotechnology and related pharmaceutical technology have undergone and should continue to experience rapid and significant change. We expect that the technologies associated with biotechnology research and development will continue to develop rapidly. Our future success will depend in large part on our ability to maintain a competitive position with respect to these technologies. Any compounds, products or processes that we develop may become obsolete before we recover any expenses incurred in connection with their development. Rapid technological change could make our products obsolete, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our inability to compete in our industry could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competitors could develop and gain FDA approval of products containing rhIGF-1, which could adversely affect our competitive position in all indications where we are currently developing IPLEX. rhIGF-1 manufactured by other parties may be approved for use in other indications in the United States in the future, including myotonic muscular dystrophy, HIV associated adipose redistribution syndrome and severe insulin resistance. In the event there are other rhIGF-1 products approved by the FDA to treat indications other than those covered by IPLEX, physicians may elect to prescribe a competitor’s product containing rhIGF-1 to treat the indications for which IPLEX has received and may receive approval. This is commonly referred to as off-label use. While under FDA regulations a competitor is not allowed to promote off-label use of its product, the FDA does not regulate the practice of medicine and as a result cannot direct physicians as to what product containing rhIGF-1 to prescribe to their patients. As a result, we would have limited ability to prevent off-label use of a competitor’s product containing rhIGF-1 to treat any diseases for which we have received FDA approval even if it violates our patents and/or we have orphan drug exclusivity for the use of rhIGF-1 to treat such diseases. If another party obtains Orphan Drug Exclusivity for a product that is essentially the same as a product we are developing in a particular indication, we may be precluded or delayed from commercializing the product in that indication. This may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant Orphan Drug Designation to drugs intended to treat a rare disease or condition, which is generally a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States. The company that obtains the first marketing approval from the FDA for a designated orphan drug for a rare disease receives marketing exclusivity for use of that drug for the designated condition for a period of seven years. Similar laws exist in Europe. If a competitor obtains approval of the same drug for the same indication or disease before us, we would be blocked from obtaining approval for our product for seven or more years, unless our product can be shown to be clinically superior. In addition, more than one drug may be approved by the FDA for the same orphan indication or disease as long as the drugs are different drugs. As a result, even if our product is approved and receives Orphan Drug Exclusivity, as in the case of our drug IPLEX, the FDA can still approve different drugs for use in treating the same indication or disease covered by our product, which could create a more competitive market for us. For example, the FDA approved Tercica’s drug, Increlex™, for the treatment of Severe Primary IGFD and granted Tercica’s product Orphan Drug Exclusivity. Therefore, Tercica’s product will compete with IPLEX for the treatment of Severe Primary IGFD when IPLEX is launched commercially and the value of IPLEX’s Orphan Drug Status in this indication will be limited. 30 Table of Contents Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. Disclosure of this information may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In order to protect our proprietary technology and processes, we rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our corporate partners, employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators and sponsored researchers and other advisors. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover trade secrets and proprietary information. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. We may not be able to manufacture quantities of IPLEX sufficient to meet market demand, or manufacturing capacity necessary to supply IPLEX, rhIGFBP-3 or INSM-18 for use in clinical studies may not be available, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to find sufficient manufacturing capacity or successfully implement our own manufacturing capabilities, it could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to successfully manufacture our products could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We intend to manufacture IPLEX and rhIGFBP-3 bulk drug substance and perform the majority of analytical testing at our manufacturing facility in Boulder, Colorado and utilize contract manufacturers for sterile filtering, filling, finishing, labeling and some analytical testing. We intend to manufacture INSM-18 with contract manufacturers. In order to meet anticipated commercial and clinical demand for IPLEX and clinical demand for rhIGFBP-3, we plan to implement stepwise changes to our Boulder, Colorado manufacturing facility and manufacturing process beginning this year. We must submit to the FDA information and data pertaining to these changes and the FDA must approve these changes before we will be allowed to use IPLEX or rhIGFBP-3 that is manufactured following implementation of these changes. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in implementing changes to our manufacturing facility or process for making IPLEX and rhIGFBP-3 or that the FDA will review and approve these changes in a timely manner or at all or that contract manufacturers will have the capacity to produce and test our products. If we are unable to implement the required changes to our manufacturing facility and process or there is a delay in the implementation and approval of these changes, we will be limited to our current manufacturing capacity and would not be able to meet the market or clinical demand which would adversely affect the development and commercialization of IPLEX and rhIGFBP-3. If our contract manufacturers are unable to meet our sterile filtering, filling, finishing, labeling and analytical testing needs, in a way that meets our time and cost parameters, our commercialization of IPLEX and the development and timing of our preclinical and clinical studies may be adversely affected. In addition, there can be no assurance that an adverse regulatory inspection at our manufacturing facility or contract manufacturer would not impede our commercial supply capability. We have chosen to commercialize IPLEX on our own and this is time consuming, resource intensive and capital intensive. If our facilities and contract manufacturers cannot produce and test our products according to current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP, and pass a cGMP inspection, we may be unable to develop and commercialize our products. This would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The available capacity for the manufacture and testing of recombinant proteins that comprise IPLEX is limited. A shutdown or disruption at our manufacturing facility due to technical, regulatory or other problems, resulting in an interruption in supply of these materials, could delay our development activities and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. 31 Table of Contents Our manufacturing facility and contract manufacturers must undergo inspections by the FDA and/or the EMEA for compliance with cGMP regulations. In the event these facilities do not continue to receive satisfactory cGMP inspections for the manufacture and testing of our products, we may need to fund additional modifications to our manufacturing or testing processes, conduct additional validation studies, or find alternative manufacturing and testing facilities, any of which would result in significant cost to us as well as a significant delay of up to several years in obtaining additional approvals for IPLEX or continuation of the development of our products. In addition, our manufacturing facility and any contract manufacturer we may utilize will be subject to ongoing periodic inspection by the FDA, the EMEA and other foreign agencies for compliance with cGMP regulations and similar foreign standards. We have limited control over contract manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. Product for our clinical studies is currently made at our manufacturing facility and then sent to contract manufacturers for sterile filtration, filling into vials and some analytical testing. Should our manufacturing facility or our contract manufacturers become unavailable to us for any reason, including damage from any event, including fire, flood, earthquake or terrorism, we may be unable to complete manufacture of IPLEX or validation of the manufacturing process for IPLEX. This could delay the sale and marketing of IPLEX, our clinical studies and the approval of our MAA, which would delay or otherwise adversely affect revenues. If the damage to any of these facilities is extensive or if our contract manufacturer is unwilling or unable to perform under our agreements, we will need to find alternative facilities. The number of contract manufacturers with the expertise and facilities to manufacture IPLEX bulk drug substance on a commercial scale in accordance with cGMP regulations is extremely limited and it would take a significant amount of time and resources to arrange for alternative manufacturers. If we need to change to other contract manufacturers, we would also need to transfer to these new manufacturers and validate the processes and analytical methods necessary for the production and testing of IPLEX. Any of these factors could lead to (1) the delay or suspension of our clinical studies, regulatory submissions, regulatory approvals or commercialization of IPLEX, or (2) higher costs of production, or (3) our failure to effectively commercialize IPLEX or our other drug candidates. Furthermore, if our manufacturing facility or our contract manufacturers fail to deliver sufficient quantities of bulk drug substance or finished product on a timely basis and at commercially reasonable prices, and we are unable to promptly find one or more replacement manufacturers capable of production at a substantially equivalent cost, in substantially equivalent volume and on a timely basis, we will likely be unable to meet demand for IPLEX and we would lose potential revenues. We need collaborative relationships to be successful. If we are unable to form these relationships it could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently rely and may in the future rely on a number of significant collaborative relationships for intellectual property rights, research funding, manufacturing, analytical services, preclinical development, clinical development and/or sales and marketing. For example, almost all of our clinical trial work is done in collaboration with academic institutions and we have licensed intellectual property to permit the development, manufacture and commercialization of IPLEX and our drug candidates. Reliance on collaborative relationships poses a number of risks, including the following: • we may not be able to effectively control whether our corporate partners will devote sufficient resources to our programs or product; • disputes may arise in the future with respect to the ownership of rights to technology developed with, licensed to or licensed from corporate partners; • disagreements with corporate partners could result in loss of intellectual property rights, delay or terminate the research, development or commercialization of product candidates or result in litigation or arbitration; • contracts with our corporate partners may fail to provide sufficient protection of our intellectual property; 32 Table of Contents • we may have difficulty enforcing the contracts if one of these partners fails to perform; • corporate partners have considerable discretion in electing whether to pursue the development of any additional products and may pursue technologies or products either on their own or in collaboration with our competitors; and • corporate partners with marketing rights may choose to devote fewer resources to the marketing of our products than they do to products of their own development. Given these risks, a great deal of uncertainty exists regarding the success of our current and future collaborative efforts. Failure of these efforts could delay, impair or prevent the development and commercialization of our products and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our long-term viability and growth depend on the successful development and commercialization of our products. Pharmaceutical product development is an expensive, high risk, lengthy, complicated, resource intensive process. Our long-term viability and growth depend on the successful development and commercialization of additional products which lead to revenue and profits. All of our products other than IPLEX are in the research and development stage. Our products must be successfully developed prior to commercialization. Pharmaceutical product development is an expensive, high risk, lengthy, complicated, resource intensive process. In order to succeed, among other things, we must be able to: • identify potential drug product candidates; • design and conduct appropriate laboratory, preclinical and other research; • submit for and receive regulatory approval to perform clinical studies; • design and conduct appropriate preclinical and clinical studies according to good laboratory and good clinical practices; • select and recruit clinical investigators; • select and recruit subjects for our studies; • collect, analyze and correctly interpret the data from our studies; • submit for and receive regulatory approvals for marketing; and • manufacture the drug product candidates according to current good manufacturing practices. The development program with respect to any given product will take many years and thus delay our ability to generate profits. In addition, potential products that appear promising at early stages of development may fail for a number of reasons, including the possibility that the products may require significant additional testing or turn out to be: • unsafe; • not effective; • too difficult or expensive to develop or manufacture; • too difficult to administer; or • unstable. In order to conduct the development programs for our potential products we must, among other things, be able to successfully: • raise sufficient money to pay for the development; 33 Table of Contents • attract and retain appropriate personnel; and • develop relationships with other companies to perform various development activities that we are unable to perform. If our products fail in preclinical or clinical studies or if we cannot enroll enough patients to complete our clinical studies, such failure may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In order to sell our products, we must receive regulatory approval. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any of our products under development, we must demonstrate through preclinical studies and clinical studies that the product is safe and effective for use in each target indication. In addition, the results from preclinical testing and early clinical studies may not be predictive of results obtained in later clinical studies. There can be no assurance that our clinical studies will demonstrate sufficient safety and effectiveness to obtain regulatory approvals. A number of companies in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries have suffered significant setbacks in late stage clinical studies even after promising results in early stage development. If our products fail in preclinical or clinical studies, it may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are currently conducting a Phase III clinical trial of IPLEX in patients with Severe Primary IGFD and plan to include the data from the trial in a Marketing Authorization Application, or MAA, to the European Medicines Agency, or EMEA. We must receive approval of these applications before we can market IPLEX in certain countries outside of the United States. We are also planning and conducting clinical studies with INSM-18 and rhIGFBP-3. The completion rate of these and other clinical studies is dependent on, among other factors, the patient enrollment rate. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including: • Investigator identification and recruitment; • regulatory approvals to initiate study sites; • patient population size; • the nature of the protocol to be used in the trial; • patient proximity to clinical sites; • eligibility criteria for the study; and • competition from other companies’ clinical studies for the same patient population. We believe our planned procedures for enrolling patients are appropriate; however, delays in patient enrollment would increase costs and delay ultimate commercialization and sales, if any, of our products. Such delays could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be required to conduct broad, long-term clinical studies to address concerns that the long-term use of IPLEX in broader chronic indications might increase the risk of diabetic retinopathy. This may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In previously published clinical studies of rhIGF-1, concerns were raised that long-term use of rhIGF-1 might lead to an increased incidence and/or severity of retinopathy, a disease of new blood vessel growth in the eye which results in loss of vision. Because our product contains rhIGF-1, the FDA may require us to conduct broad, long-term clinical studies to address these concerns prior to receiving FDA approval for broad chronic indications such as diabetes. These clinical studies would be expensive and could delay or prevent our commercialization of IPLEX for these broader chronic indications. Adverse results from these studies could prevent our commercialization of IPLEX for broad chronic indications or could jeopardize existing development and approvals in other indications. 34 Table of Contents We will need additional funds in the future to continue our operations, but we face uncertainties with respect to our access to capital that could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We will require substantial future capital in order to execute our business plan. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including factors associated with: • obtaining marketing, sales and distribution capabilities; • launching products; • other activities required for product commercialization; • litigation; • manufacturing; • process development; • research and development, including, among other items, preclinical testing and clinical studies; • obtaining regulatory approvals; • retaining employees and consultants; • filing and prosecuting patent applications and enforcing patent claims; and • establishing strategic alliances. We may also need to spend more money than currently expected because we may change our drug development plans, acquire additional drugs or drug candidates or we may misjudge our costs. We have no committed sources of capital and do not know whether additional financing will be available when needed, or, if available, that the terms will be favorable. There can be no assurance that our cash reserves together with any subsequent funding will satisfy our capital requirements. The failure to satisfy our capital requirements will adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Without additional funding, we do not believe that existing cash reserves, including amounts raised in our March 15, 2005 financing, will sufficiently fund our activities through the next twelve months. Our independent registered public accounting firm has indicated that there are material uncertainties which cast significant doubt upon our ability to continue as a going concern. The addition of this going concern disclosure may discourage investors from purchasing our stock. We may seek additional funding through strategic alliances, private or public sales of our securities or licensing all or a portion of our technology. Such funding may significantly dilute existing shareholders or may limit our rights to our currently developing technology. There can be no assurance, however, that we can obtain additional funding on reasonable terms, or at all. If we cannot obtain adequate funds, we may need to significantly curtail our product development programs and/or relinquish rights to our technologies or drug candidates. This may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent upon retaining and attracting key personnel and others, the loss of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend highly on the principal members of our scientific and management staff, the loss of whose services might significantly delay or prevent the achievement of research, development or business objectives and would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain qualified management, scientific and medical personnel, and on our ability to develop and maintain important relationships with commercial partners, leading research institutions and key distributors. A number of factors affect our ability to attract qualified personnel, including our size, our location, our status as a public company and our uncertain prospects. We face intense competition for such personnel and relationships. We cannot assure that we will attract and retain appropriate persons or maintain such relationships. 35 Table of Contents We expect that our potential expansion into areas and activities requiring additional expertise, such as further clinical studies, governmental approvals, manufacturing, sales, marketing and distribution will place additional requirements on our management, operational and financial resources. We expect that these demands will require an increase in management and scientific personnel and the development of additional expertise by existing management personnel. The failure to attract and retain such personnel or to develop such expertise could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our research, development and manufacturing activities involve the use of hazardous materials, which could expose us to damages that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our research, development and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including hazardous chemicals and radioactive materials. We believe that our procedures for handling hazardous materials comply with federal and state regulations; however, there can be no assurance that accidental injury or contamination from these materials will not occur. We currently maintain a general liability insurance policy that has a $1.0 million per claim limit and also caps aggregate claims at $2.0 million. In addition, we have an umbrella insurance policy that covers up to $2.0 million of liability in excess of the general liability policy’s $2.0 million limit. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for damages, which would likely exceed our insurance coverage and other available financial resources. This liability would limit our ability to commercialize IPLEX and develop other products which would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials and waste products. These laws and regulations may require us to incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations in the future that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to product liability claims if our products harm people, and we have only limited product liability insurance. The manufacture and sale of human therapeutic products involve an inherent risk of product liability claims and associated adverse publicity. We currently have only limited product liability insurance for clinical studies and no commercial product liability insurance. We do not know if we will be able to maintain existing or obtain additional product liability insurance on acceptable terms or with adequate coverage against potential liabilities. This type of insurance is expensive and may not be available on acceptable terms. If we are unable to obtain or maintain sufficient insurance coverage on reasonable terms or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims, we may be unable to commercialize our products. A successful product liability claim brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage, if any, may require us to pay substantial amounts. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. It is illegal for us to promote IPLEX for uses other than those approved by the regulatory authorities. Such off-label promotion, as it is known, may result in regulatory actions against us even if such activities by us are inadvertent. Physicians may prescribe drugs for uses that are not described in the product’s labeling and that differ from those approved by the FDA. Such off-label uses are common across medical specialties. Although the FDA does not regulate the practice of medicine, the FDA does restrict our communications with respect to off-label use. We cannot promote FDA-approved drugs for off-label uses. A company may engage in truthful, non-misleading, and non-promotional speech concerning its products. For example, while we may inform physicians that we are conducting a clinical trial to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of IPLEX in unapproved uses and encourage those physicians to refer eligible patients to enroll in the clinical trial, we cannot promote the product for unapproved uses. We may also educate physicians about a particular disease state and how that disease is properly diagnosed so that patients who qualify for the clinical trial might be identified, and survey physicians 36 Table of Contents who are lawfully prescribing our products or competitors’ products for off-label uses to monitor patients’ experiences. We may also, pursuant to FDA policies, respond to unsolicited requests from health care professionals and engage in appropriate scientific exchange of information about unapproved uses. As we have no sales and marketing experience, we have not engaged in these lawful activities with respect to IPLEX in the past. These rules are complex and our sales and marketing employees may not understand the regulations against off-label promotion. We do not yet have policies and procedures in place to regulate the lawful promotion of our marketed products within their labeled indications. While our employees will be trained to follow specific policies and procedures designed to instruct the lawful promotion of our products and must certify that they will abide by them, we cannot guarantee that our employees will follow these policies and procedures. The FDA actively enforces regulations prohibiting promotion of off-label uses and the promotion of products for unapproved uses. The FDA’s regulations and policies are subject to varying interpretations, which are evolving. We cannot guarantee that we will change our policies as the FDA’s regulations and policies change. Failure to comply with these regulations and policies can result in regulatory enforcement action by the FDA and other governmental bodies, which would have an adverse effect on our revenues, business and financial prospects. Conversion of our outstanding notes and exercise of warrants and options issued by us will significantly dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders. As of February 28, 2006, the convertible notes issued by us on March 15, 2005 and the warrants issued by us in March 2005, November 2004 and July 2003 were convertible into and exercisable for up to approximately 13.2 million shares of our common stock, representing approximately 17% of our then outstanding common stock. As of February 28, 2006, our outstanding options to our employees, officers, directors and consultants were exercisable for up to 6.1 million shares of our common stock, representing approximately an additional 8% of our then outstanding common stock. The conversion or exercise of some or all of our convertible notes, warrants and options will significantly dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion or exercise could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. The market price of our stock has been and may continue to be highly volatile, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Our common stock is listed on The Nasdaq National Market under the ticker symbol “INSM.” The market price of our stock has been and may continue to be highly volatile, and announcements by us or by third parties may have a significant impact on our stock price. These announcements may relate to: • our listing status on The Nasdaq National Market; • results of our clinical studies and preclinical studies, or those of our corporate partners or our competitors; • our operating results; • developments relating to patent or other litigation in which we are involved; • developments in our relationships with corporate partners; • developments affecting our corporate partners; • negative regulatory action or regulatory approval with respect to our announcement or our competitors’ announcements of new products, • government regulation, reimbursement changes and governmental investigation or audits related to us or to our products, • developments related to our patents or other proprietary rights or those of our competitors; 37 Table of Contents • changes in the position of securities analysts with respect to our stock; and/or • operating results below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, which have particularly affected the market prices for emerging biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies, and which have often been unrelated to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have often instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our shareholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. The lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management. Future sales by existing shareholders may lower the price of our common stock, which could result in losses to our shareholders. Future sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the public market, or the possibility of such sales occurring, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock or our future ability to raise capital through an offering of equity securities. Substantially all of our common stock is freely tradable in the public market without restriction under the Securities Act, unless these shares are held by “affiliates” of our company, as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. We have never paid dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our businesses and, therefore, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Certain provisions of Virginia law, our articles of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws, and our Rights Plan make a hostile takeover by a third party difficult. Certain provisions of Virginia law and our articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could hamper a third party’s acquisition of, or discourage a third party from attempting to acquire control of us. The conditions could also limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions include: • a provision allowing us to issue preferred stock with rights senior to those of the common stock without any further vote or action by the holders of the common stock. The issuance of preferred stock could decrease the amount of earnings and assets available for distribution to the holders of common stock or could adversely affect the rights and powers, including voting rights, of the holders of the common stock. In certain circumstances, such issuance could have the effect of decreasing the market price of the common stock; • the existence of a staggered board of directors in which there are three classes of directors serving staggered three-year terms, thus expanding the time required to change the composition of a majority of directors and perhaps discouraging someone from making an acquisition proposal for us; • the amended and restated bylaws’ requirement that shareholders provide advance notice when nominating our directors; • the inability of shareholders to convene a shareholders’ meeting without the chairman of the board, the president or a majority of the board of directors first calling the meeting; and • the application of Virginia law prohibiting us from entering into a business combination with the beneficial owner of 10% or more of our outstanding Voting stock for a period of three years after the 10% or greater owner first reached that level of stock ownership, unless we meet certain criteria. In addition, in May 2001, our board of directors approved the adoption of a Rights Plan under which shareholders received rights to purchase new shares of preferred stock if a person or group acquires 15% or more 38 Table of Contents of our common stock. These provisions are intended to discourage acquisitions of 15% or more of our common stock without negotiations with the board. The rights trade with our common stock, unless and until they are separated upon the occurrence of certain future events. Our board of directors may redeem the rights at a price of $0.01 per right prior to the time a person acquires 15% or more of our common stock. Our common stock may be thinly traded from time to time, which means large transactions in our common stock may be difficult to conduct in a short time frame. On occasion, we have a low volume of daily trades in our common stock on The Nasdaq National Market. Any large transactions in our common stock may be difficult to conduct and may cause significant fluctuations in the price of our common stock. Our long term growth strategy may include acquiring complementary businesses or technologies that may not be available or, if available and purchased or licensed, might not improve our business, financial condition or results of operations. As part of our business strategy, we eventually expect to pursue acquisitions and in-license new products and technologies. Nonetheless, we cannot assure you that we will identify suitable acquisitions or products or that we can make such acquisitions or enter into such license agreements on acceptable terms. If we acquire businesses, those businesses may require substantial capital, and we cannot provide assurance that such capital will be available in sufficient amounts or that financing will be available in amounts and on terms that we deem acceptable. Furthermore, the integration of acquired businesses may result in unforeseen difficulties that require a disproportionate amount of management’s attention and our other resources. Finally, we cannot provide assurance that we will achieve productive synergies and efficiencies from these acquisitions. 39 Table of Contents 