Risk Factors. Impact of consumer spending patterns. The success of the Company's operations depends to a significant extent upon a number of factors affecting disposable consumer income, both domestic and foreign, including economic conditions and factors such as employment, business conditions, interest rates and taxation. In addition, consumer spending patterns may be affected by changes in the amount or severity of inclement weather, the acceptability of U.S. brands in international markets and the growth or decline of global footwear markets. The Company's business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by changes in consumer spending or economic conditions. Competition and Changes in Consumer Preferences. The Company competes with numerous other marketers of footwear, some of which are larger and have greater resources than the Company. Product performance and quality, including technological improvements, product identity, competitive pricing and the ability to adapt to style changes are all important elements of competition in the footwear industry. The footwear industry in general is subject to changes in consumer preferences with respect to the popularity of particular designs and categories of footwear. The Company strives to maintain and improve its competitive position through promotion of brand awareness, sourcing efficiencies, and the style, comfort and value of its products. Future sales by the Company will be affected by its continued ability to sell its products at competitive prices and to meet shifts in consumer preferences. If the Company is unable to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in consumer spending, the Company's business, resu lts of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. Inventory Management. The Company's ability to manage its inventories properly is an important factor in its operations. Inventory shortages can impede the Company's ability to meet at-once orders and can adversely affect the timing of shipments to customers and diminish brand loyalty. Conversely, excess inventories can result in increased interest costs as well as lower gross margins due to the necessity of lowering prices in order to liquidate excess inventories. If the Company is unable to effectively manage its inventory, its business, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. Dependence on Foreign Manufacturers. The Company currently sources most of its footwear from third party manufacturers in foreign countries, predominantly China. As is common in the industry, the Company does not have long-term contracts with its foreign footwear manufacturers. The Company is a major customer of many of the third party manufacturers from which it sources products. There can be no assurance, however, that the Company will not experience difficulties with such manufacturers, including reduction in the availability of production capacity, failure to meet production deadlines or increases in manufacturing costs. The Company's future results will depend partly on its ability to maintain positive working relationships with its third party manufacturers. Foreign manufacturing is subject to a number of risks, including work stoppages, transportation delays and interruptions, political instability, foreign currency fluctuations, changing economic conditions, expropriation, nationalization, the imposition of tariffs, import and export controls and other 13 non-tariff barriers and changes in governmental policies. The possibility exists that trade relations with China and other countries where the Company sources its products will worsen or that China will shift its manufacturing capacity away from footwear to other industries. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in monetary controls and valuations of the Chinese yuan renminbi and the currencies of other countries from which the Company sources, and their relative value to the U.S. Dollar could have an adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company cannot predict whether additional United States or foreign customs quotas, duties, taxes or other changes or restrictions will be imposed upon the importation of non-domestically produced products in the future or what effect such actions could have on the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations. The European Union has initiated anti-dumping investigations regarding the importation into the European Union of leather footwear from China and Vietnam and safety footwear from China and India. The European Commission has recommended provisional measures which, if implemented, would result in additional duties of 19.4% on certain leather footwear imported into the European Union from China and 16.8% on certain leather footwear imported into the European Union from Vietnam. Analysis and discussion between the European Commission, Member States and interested parties regarding these anti-dumping investigations is continuing and the final outcome of these investigations is uncertain. The imposition of preliminary or final dumping measures could have a material impact on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company and a number of other companies in the footwear industry are advocating against the imposition of dumping measures by the European Union. The Company is also exploring alternative sourcing options for importation in the European Union if dumping measures are imposed. Suppliers and Service Providers. The Company's ability to competitively price its products depends on the cost of footwear components, services, labor, equipment and raw materials, including leather and materials used in the production of outsoles. The cost of services and materials is subject to change based on the availability and market conditions that are difficult to predict. Conditions such as diseases affecting the availability of leather affect the cost of the footwear marketed by the Company. In addition, the Company's shipping costs are affected by fuel prices and numerous other factors such as the possibility of service interruptions at shipping and receiving ports. The Company purchases pigskins for its tannery operations from a single domestic source pursuant to short-term contracts. Although this source has been a reliable and consistent supplier for over 30 years, there are no assurances that it will continue as a supplier. Failure of this source to continue to supply the Company with pigskin or to supply the Company with pigskin on less favorable terms could have a negative impact on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. Customers. The Company's financial success is directly related to the willingness of its customers to continue to purchase its products. The Company does not typically have long-term contracts with its customers. Sales to the Company's customers are generally on an order-by-order basis and are subject to rights of cancellation and rescheduling by the customers. Failure to fill customers' orders in a timely manner could harm the Company's relationships with its customers. Furthermore, if any of the Company's major 14 customers experience a significant downturn in its business, or fails to remain committed to the Company's products or brands, then these customers may reduce or discontinue purchases from the Company, which could have an adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company sells its products to wholesale customers and extends credit based on an evaluation of each customer's financial condition, usually without requiring collateral. The financial difficulties of a customer could cause the Company to stop doing business with that customer or reduce its business with that customer. The Company's inability to collect from its customers or a cessation or reduction of sales to certain customers because of credit concerns could have an adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. The recent trend toward consolidation in the retail industry could lead to customers seeking more favorable terms of purchase from the Company and could lead to a decrease in the number of stores that carry the Company's products. The Company has been awarded a number of U.S. Department of Defense contracts that include future purchase options for Bates® footwear. Failure to exercise these purchase options by the Department of Defense or the failure of the Company to secure future U.S. Department of Defense contracts could have an adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company's products are sold in many international markets through independent licensees or distributors. Failure by the Company's licensees or distributors to meet planned annual sales goals could have an adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition, and it may be difficult and costly to locate an acceptable substitute distributor or licensee. If a change in distributors becomes necessary, the Company may experience increased costs, as well as substantial disruption and a resulting loss of sales and brand equity in that market. In addition, changes in the channels of distribution such as the growth of Internet commerce and the trend toward the sale of private label products by major retailers could have an adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. Implementation of Growth Strategy. As part of its growth strategy, the Company seeks to enhance the positioning of its brands and to extend its brands into complementary product categories and consumer groups, to expand geographically, and to improve operational performance. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement any or all of these growth strategies, which could have an adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to successfully launch the Patagonia® footwear line in Spring 2007 and there are no assurances that the Company's expected Merrell® brand expansion into apparel in Fall 2007 will be successful. The Company is investing substantial resources into these two product launches in 2007 and the failure of either or both could have an adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. Reputational Risks. The Company requires its independent contract manufacturers, distributors, licensees and others with which it does business to comply with the Company's standards relating to working conditions and other matters. If a party with which the Company does business is found to have violated 15 the Company's standards, the Company could receive negative publicity that could damage its reputation and negatively affect the value of its brands. Government/Regulation. The Company's business is affected by changes in government and regulatory policies in the United States and on a global basis. Changes in interest rates, tax laws, duties, tariffs and quotas could have a negative impact on the Company's ability to produce and market footwear at competitive prices. Global Political and Economic Uncertainty. Concerns regarding acts of terrorism, the war in Iraq and subsequent events have created significant global economic and political uncertainties that may have material and adverse effects on consumer demand, foreign sourcing of footwear, shipping and transportation, product imports and exports and the sale of products in foreign markets. The Company is subject to risks in doing business in developing countries and economically volatile areas. Currency. Foreign currency fluctuation in valuations compared to the U.S. Dollar, changes in monetary controls and valuations, and the relative value to the U.S. dollar affect the Company's profitability. For a more detailed discussion of risk relating to foreign currency fluctuation, see Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. Protection of Intellectual Property; Continuation of Licensing Agreements. The Company invests significant resources to developing and protecting its intellectual property. The Company's ability to remain competitive is dependent upon its continued ability to secure and protect trademarks, patents and other intellectual property rights. In addition, some of the Company's branded footwear operations are operated pursuant to licensing agreements with third party trademark owners. These agreements are long-term, but are subject to early termination provisions. Early termination of any of these license agreements by the licensor could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. Integration of Newly Acquired Businesses. The Company may make strategic acquisitions in the future and cannot assure that it will be able to successfully integrate the operations of newly-acquired businesses into the Company's current operations. The failure to integrate newly acquired businesses or the inability to make suitable strategic acquisitions in the future could have an adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. Litigation and Regulatory Proceedings. The Company is a defendant from time to time in lawsuits and regulatory actions relating to its business. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and regulatory proceedings, the Company cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings. An unfavorable outcome could have an adverse impact on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, regardless of the outcome of any litigation or regulatory proceedings, such proceedings are expensive and may require that the Company devote substantial resources and executive time to defend the Company. 16 Anti-Takeover Provisions. Provisions of the Company's certificate of incorporation, bylaws, and the Company's Rights Plan, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control of the Company. These provisions are intended to protect stockholders' interests by providing the Board of Directors a means to attempt to deny coercive takeover attempts or to negotiate with a potential acquirer in order to obtain more favorable terms. Such provisions include a board of directors that is classified so that only one-third of directors stand for election each year, the authorization of "blank check" preferred stock, which the Company's Board of Directors could issue with provisions designed to prevent or delay a takeover attempt, and provisions of the Company's Rights Plan that make it more difficult to acquire the Company without negotiating with the Board of Directors. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it mor e difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. Attraction and Retention of Qualified Personnel. The Company is dependent on the efforts and abilities of its senior executive officers, including its Chief Executive Officer and Chairman, Timothy J. O'Donovan. While the Company believes that its senior management team has significant depth, the loss of one or more members of senior executive management could have an adverse effect on the Company, its results of operations and financial condition. The Company's future success also depends on its ability to identify, attract and retain additional qualified personnel. While the Company has historically been successful in attracting and retaining key employees, competition for such employees in the footwear industry is intense and failure to retain or attract key employees could adversely impact the Company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 