ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business We are subject to the risks associated with operating in an evolving market. As a company operating in the rapidly evolving PRC Internet market, we face numerous risks and uncertainties. Some of these risks relate to our ability to: • continue to attract users to remain with us and use our products and services as the primary means of surfing the Internet switches from traditional PCs to mobile phones or other portable devices; • continue to attract a larger audience to our matrices of Chinese language content and services by expanding the type and technical sophistication of the content and services we offer; • develop a sufficiently large customer and user base for our search and others business; • maintain and attract online game users by periodically updating our existing online games and developing and launching new online games; • increase the revenues derived from our fee-based services and products we offer online; 32 Table of Contents • build our Sohu.com, focus.cn, 17173.com, search and others, online game, and other businesses successfully; • attract and retain qualified personnel; and • effectively control our increased costs and expenses as we expand our business. Our operating results are likely to fluctuate significantly and may differ from market expectations. Our annual and quarterly operating results have varied significantly in the past, and may vary significantly in the future, due to a number of factors which could have an adverse impact on our business, including in particular our reliance on operation of TLBB for a significant portion of our revenues and profitability. Others factors include our reliance on advertisers in certain industries for online advertising revenues, and our reliance on China mobile network operators including China Mobile, China Unicom, China Telecom and their subsidiaries for our wireless revenues. Fluctuations in the industries of our key advertisers may affect our online advertising revenues, because they may cut their spending on online marketing if there is any downturn in their industries. We also rely on certain third party agencies to sell our search and others services. If we lose any of our key agencies, our business will be adversely affected. We rely on China mobile network operators for the billing of and collection of wireless service fees from mobile phone users. If our arrangements with the operators were to be terminated, altered or not renewed, or if the operators did not provide continuous or adequate service, our wireless revenues could be reduced significantly. We are unsure if it will continue to grow, and if it does, of the rate at which it will grow. In addition, we are subject to government regulations that may change at any time with or without notice. As a result, we believe that year-to-year and quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. In addition, we have experienced very high growth rates in certain business lines in the past, and there may be expectations that these growth rates will continue. In the past, our operating results have sometimes fallen below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, and they may do so again in the future. In this event, the trading price of our common stock may fall. We depend on Changyou’s online games, and on Changyou’s game TLBB in particular, for a significant portion of our revenues, net income, and operating cash flow. Any decrease in TLBB’s popularity would have any adverse effect on our operating results. We rely on Changyou’s online games for a significant portion of our revenues, net income and operating cash flows. For the year ended December 31, 2012, 40% of our total revenues and 73% of our online game revenues were derived from TLBB. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Summary of Our Business-Online Game Business.” If Changyou’s online game revenues decrease or do not continue to grow, our revenues, net income and cash flows are likely to be adversely affected. In particular, if Changyou fails to improve and update TLBB on a timely basis, or if Changyou’s competitors introduce more popular games catering to Changyou’s game-player base, TLBB could lose its popularity, which could cause significant decrease in our revenues, net income and cash flow. Furthermore, if there are any interruptions in TLBB’s operations due to unexpected server interruptions, network failures or other factors, game players may be prevented or deterred from making purchases of virtual items, which could also cause significant decreases in our revenues, net income and cash flow. We face intense competition which could reduce our market share and adversely affect our financial performance. There are many companies that distribute online content and services targeting Chinese Internet users. We compete with distributors of content and services over the Internet, including content sites, Web directories, search engines, online games, Internet service providers and sites maintained by government and educational institutions. These sites compete with us for user traffic, advertising dollars, online game players, potential partners and wireless services. The Internet market in China is relatively new and rapidly evolving. Competition is intense and expected to increase significantly in the future, because there are no substantial barriers to entry in our market. We have many competitors in the PRC Internet market, including Tencent, Sina, NetEase, Auto Home, BitAuto, Youku Tudou, iQIYI, SouFun, E-House, YY, Microsoft, Baidu, Google, Qihoo, Shanda, Perfect World, Giant, NetDragon, Kingsoft, The9 Limited, Shenzhen ZQGame Co. Limited and Taomee Holdings Limited. In addition, we face increasing numbers of newly-emerged competitors or existing competitors who compete with us by expanding their businesses into new areas. For example, in August 2012, Qihoo (NYSE:QIHU), which is the leading Chinese anti-virus company, successfully launched its own search engine, so.com, which directly competes with our Sogou search engine. 33 Table of Contents We compete with our peers and competitors in China primarily on the following basis: • technological advancements; • attractiveness of products; • brand recognition; • volume of traffic and users; • quality of Websites and content; • strategic relationships; • quality of services; • effectiveness of sales and marketing efforts; • talented staff; and • pricing. Our competitors may have certain competitive advantages over us including: • greater brand recognition among Internet users and clients; • better products and services; • larger user and customer bases; • more extensive and well developed marketing and sales networks; and • substantially greater financial and technical resources. Our existing competitors may in the future achieve greater market acceptance and gain a greater market share through launching of new products, introducing new technologies, or forming alliances among themselves, or may enhance their ability to compete with us through mergers and acquisitions or financing activities. During the past few years, many of our competitors have successfully listed their shares in the U.S. stock market. For example, SouFun (NASDAQ: SFUN) completed an initial public offering on NASDAQ in September 2010; BitAuto completed an initial public offering on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) in November 2010; Youku (NYSE: YOKU) completed an initial public offering on the NYSE in December 2010; Qihoo (NYSE: QIHU) completed an initial public offering on the NYSE in March 2011, Tudou (NASDAQ: TUDO) completed an initial public offering on NASDAQ in August 2011; and YY Inc. (NASDAQ: YY) completed an initial public offering on NASDAQ in December 2012. In August 2012, two of the leading Chinese Internet video companies, Tudou and Youku, completed stock-for-stock merger to create a new company, Youku Tudou Inc., which has boosted their combined market share. With the capital raised in their listings, these companies enhanced their ability to compete against us and, in addition, gained greater brand recognition for their particular products and services. We will need additional financial and other resources to compete with these newly listed sites, and with Youku Tudou Inc. after the merger of Youku and Tudou, and our operating expenses will increase. If our competitors are more successful than we are in developing products or in attracting and retaining users and advertisers, our revenues and growth rates could decline. It is also possible that new competitors may emerge and acquire significant market share. In addition, operators of leading Websites or Internet service providers, including Google and Microsoft, currently offer, and could expand, their online products and services targeting China. Such entities may cooperate with other organizations, such as telecommunication operators, in China to accelerate their entry into, and to enhance their competitiveness in, the Chinese market. If we fail to successfully develop and introduce new products and services, our competitive position and ability to generate revenues could be harmed. We are continually developing new products and services for our users. The planned timing or introduction of new products and services is subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual timing may differ materially from original plans. Unexpected technical, operational, distribution or other problems could delay or prevent the introduction of one or more of our new products or services. Emerging start-ups may be able to innovate and provide new products and services faster than we can. Moreover, we cannot be sure that any of our new products and services will achieve widespread market acceptance or generate incremental revenue. For example, our expansion into micro-blog services was not as successful as we had expected it to be, and Tencent and Sina have established positions as market leaders for such services. Accordingly, if we want to expand our market share for micro-blog, we will need to compete successfully against Tencent, Sina and other players in the market. In addition, a new product, WeChat, which is a free mobile phone text and voice messaging communication service launched by Tencent in January 2011, has gained great success, with its registered users reaching 300 million on January 15, 2013. If we cannot successfully address the new challenges and compete effectively against them, we may not be able to develop a sufficiently large customer and user base and achieve profitability for our products and services, and our financial performance and growth rate may be adversely affected. 34 Table of Contents In addition, when developing and launching new products, we may face indirect methods of competition from existing market players. For example, we developed and launched our desktop products Sogou Pinyin Input method and Sogou Browser with the goal of enhancing our brand recognition and attracting and retaining users. However, certain existing competitors have been imposing technical obstacles through their products on Sogou Browser in the name of protecting users’ PC security, including preventing installation, interrupting running or even inducing users to uninstall Sogou Browser. The use of such technical obstacles by our competitors could have a negative impact on our users’ experience and brand value and prevent us from achieving the market share we had expected, which could negatively affect our financial performance. Our products and services are currently accessed primarily through personal computers. As devices other than personal computers are increasingly used to access the Internet, we believe that we must develop products and applications for such devices if we are to maintain or increase our market share and revenues, and we may not be successful in doing so. Devices other than personal computers, such as mobile phones and tablets, are used increasingly in China and in overseas markets to access the Internet. We believe that, for our business to be successful, we will need to develop and launch new products and applications that work well with such devices. The products and applications that we develop for such devices may not function as smoothly as our existing products, or may not be attractive to users. In addition, manufacturers of such devices may establish restrictive conditions for developers of applications to be used on such devices, and as a result our products or applications may not work well, or at all, on such devices. As new devices are released or updated, we may encounter problems in developing or upgrading our products or applications for use on such devices and we may need to devote significant resources to the creation, support, and maintenance of such products or applications for such devices. If we are unable to successfully expand the types of devices on which our existing and future products and applications are available, or if the versions of our products or applications that we create for such devices do not function well or are not attractive to our users, our revenues may fail to grow and may decline. Our business depends on a strong brand; thus we will not be able to attract users, customers and clients of our products and offerings if we do not maintain and develop our brands. It is critical for us to maintain and develop our brands so as to effectively expand our user base and our revenues. We believe that the importance of brand recognition will increase as the number of Internet users in China grows. In order to attract and retain Internet users, brand advertising, search, online game and wireless customers, we may need to substantially increase our expenditures for creating and maintaining brand loyalty. Our success in promoting and enhancing our brands, as well as our ability to remain competitive, will also depend on our success in offering high quality content, features and functionality. If we fail to promote our brands successfully or if users to our Websites or advertisers do not perceive our content and services to be of high quality, we may not be able to continue growing our business and attracting users, advertisers, online game players and wireless users. Our failure to keep up with rapid technology changes may severely affect our future success. The Internet industry is undergoing rapid technological changes. Our future success will depend on our ability to respond to rapidly evolving technologies, adapt our services to changing industry standards and improve the performance and reliability of our services. If we fail to adapt to such changes, our business may be adversely affected. For example, with the emergence of cloud computing technology, the primary Internet technology platform has been transformed from a traditional platform to a cloud computing platform. If we fail to adapt to the transformation, our products and services upgrade process will fall behind our competitors, and accordingly weaken our capacity to adapt our technology to the market. Furthermore, cloud computing itself is a significant business opportunity. If we fail to seize the opportunity, we will lose our ability to capture a share of that market. In addition, as mobile devices other than personal computers are increasingly used to access the Internet, we must develop products and services for such devices. To meet advertisers’ needs in targeting potential customers accurately, we need to develop and operate a more effective system for our advertising delivery, tracking and recording. Otherwise, we will not be able to maintain or increase our revenues and market share. In the meantime, the MIIT and other PRC governmental authorities can be expected to regularly promulgate standards and other regulations regarding Internet software and other Internet-based technologies. Adapting to any such standards and regulations could require us to make significant expenditures in the future. Our strategy of acquiring complementary assets, technologies and businesses may fail and result in equity or earnings dilution. As a component of our growth strategy, we have acquired and intend to actively identify and acquire assets, technologies and businesses that are complementary to our existing businesses. Our acquisitions could result in the use of substantial amounts of cash, issuance of potentially dilutive equity securities, significant impairment losses related to goodwill or amortization expenses related to intangible assets and exposure to undisclosed or potential liabilities of acquired companies. Moreover, the resources expended in identifying and consummating acquisitions may be significant. Furthermore, any acquisition we decide to pursue may be subject to the approval of the relevant PRC governmental authorities, as well as any applicable PRC rules and regulations. Considering the fast changing legal environment, our acquisition may be subject to government’s further scrutiny and the acquisition structures we used to adopt may be found to be inappropriate. 35 Table of Contents We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if we are required to reassess our goodwill or other amortizable intangible assets. We are required under U.S. GAAP to test for goodwill impairment annually or more frequently if facts and circumstances warrant a review. Currently our brand advertising business is losing money, the goodwill under brand advertising reporting unit will be impaired if the deficit sustains in the long run. We are also required to review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization and slower or declining growth rates in our industry. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined. For example, we noted that the prices for purchased video content decreased significantly in the second quarter of 2012. As a result of the impairment tests, we recognized total impairment losses of $15.1 million in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income as cost of revenues. Any changes in accounting rules for share-based compensation may adversely affect our operating results, our stock price and our competitiveness in the employee marketplace. Our performance is largely dependent on talented and highly skilled individuals. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to identify, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. We have a history of using employee share options and restricted stock units to align employees’ interest with the interests of our shareholders and encourage quality employees to join us and retain our quality employees by providing competitive compensation packages. On January 1, 2006, we adopted revised guidance on accounting for share-based compensation, which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based compensation based on estimated fair values. As a result, our operating results contain a charge for share-based compensation expense related to employee share options and restricted stock units. The recognition of share-based compensation in our statement of comprehensive income would have a negative effect on our reported results and earnings per share, which could in turn negatively affect our stock price. On the other hand, if we alter our employee stock incentive plan to minimize the share-based compensation expenses, it may limit our ability to continue to use share-based awards as a tool to attract and retain our employees, and it may adversely affect our operations. We cannot assure that there will be no changes in the accounting rules for share-based compensation in future; thus our operating results, our stock price and our competitiveness in the employee marketplace may be adversely affected. Our failure to manage growth and adapt to evolving industry trends and business models could harm us. We have experienced dramatic growth in personnel in the past and we expect to continue to hire additional personnel. This growth requires significant time and resource commitments from us and our senior management. If we are unable to effectively manage a large and geographically dispersed group of employees or anticipate our future growth, our business could be adversely affected. As we have over 9,500 employees, it can be difficult for us to fully monitor each employee’s behavior. In addition, as we are expanding our business into many cities throughout China to provide localized products and services, it is harder for us to monitor and regulate behaviors of our branch offices or employees at such branch offices, to effectively implement our strategy to local offices and to manage the growth of these local operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain policies and procedures that are rigorous enough or the we will be able to cause all of our employees or all of our branch offices to behave in conformity with those policies and procedures, or to ensure that our employees will not engage in conduct that could expose us to third-party liability or governmental sanctions, which may limit our future growth and hamper our business strategy. Additionally, our business relies on our financial reporting and data systems (including our systems for billing users of our fee-based services), which have grown increasingly complex in the recent past due to acquisitions and the diversification and complexity of our business. Our ability to operate our business efficiently depends on these systems, and if we are unable to adapt to these changes, our business could be adversely affected. Moreover, to keep pace with the rapidly developing and evolving Internet industry, we must keep on exploring new products, new services or new revenue models for our business. For example, to meet the needs of advertisers, we started using a new brand advertising pricing model, the Cost Per Impression (“CPM”), as compared to the Fixed Price Model. Moreover, in addition to our traditional advertising revenue, we started pursuing revenues from other new business models. For example, for our real estate business, we sell paid membership to potential real estate buyers to help them to purchase from property developers real estate at favorable, discounted prices. In addition, the Internet industry has seen a significant shift from traditional personal computers to mobile phones or other portable devices; therefore we need to develop new products and/or services that are adaptable to portable devices so as to attract users remain with us. If we are unable to successfully adapt to new business models by developing and investing in new business strategies, products, services and technologies, our ability to maintain and expand our business in the future may be impeded. 36 Table of Contents If we fail to establish and maintain relationships with content, technology or infrastructure providers, we may not be able to attract and retain users. We rely on a number of third party relationships to provide high-quality news, video, audio and text content in order to make our Websites more attractive to users and advertisers. Our arrangements with content providers are usually short-term and most of our content providers have increased the fees they charge us for their content. This trend could increase our costs and operating expenses and could adversely affect our ability to obtain content at an economically acceptable cost. We have also entered into exclusive agreements with some of our video content providers. If we are not able to purchase as much video content as we did in 2012, the size of our video library will be reduced and our attractiveness to users will be severely impaired and advertisers may choose not to advertise through our Websites, including our online video portal. Except for the exclusive content, much of the third party content provided to our Websites is also available from other sources or may be provided to other Internet companies. If other Internet companies present the same or similar content in a superior manner, it would adversely affect our user traffic. Our business also depends significantly on relationships with leading technology and infrastructure providers and the licenses that the technology providers have granted to us. Our competitors may establish the same relationships as we have, which may adversely affect us. We may not be able to maintain these relationships or replace them on commercially attractive terms. We depend on key personnel and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose the services of our key executives and employees. Our future success is heavily dependent upon the continued service of our key executives, particularly Dr. Charles Zhang, who is the founder, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board, and a major shareholder of our company. We rely on his expertise in our business operations. In addition, for our online game business, we rely heavily on the continued service of Tao Wang, the Chief Executive Officer of Changyou.com Limited, who has been instrumental in the development of TLBB. For our online search business, we rely on the continued services of Xiaochuan Wang, Chief Executive Officer of Sogou. If one or more of our key executives and employees are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them easily and our business may be severely disrupted. In addition, if any of our key executives or employees joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose know-how, key professionals and staff members as well as customers, suppliers and incur additional expenses to recruit and train personnel. Each of our executive officers has entered into an employment agreement and a confidentiality, non-competition and non-solicitation agreement with us. However, the degree of protection afforded to an employer pursuant to confidentiality and non-competition undertakings governed by PRC law may be more limited when compared to the degree of protection afforded under the laws of other jurisdictions. We do not maintain key-man life insurance for any of our key executives. We also rely on a number of key technology staff for our business. Given the competitive nature of the industry, the risk of key technology staff leaving Sohu is high and could have a disruptive impact on our operations. Our growth may cause significant pressures upon our operational, administrative and financial resources. Our operational, administrative and financial resources may be inadequate to sustain the growth we want to achieve. As the demands of our users and the needs of our customers change, the number of our users and volume of online advertising increase, requirements for maintaining sufficient servers to provide high-definition online video and to provide game players smooth online game experiences increase, requirements for search traffic and users’ requirements as to the quality of search services increase, and wireless activities increase, we will need to increase our investment in our network infrastructure, facilities and other areas of operations. If we are unable to manage our growth and expansion effectively, the quality of our services could deteriorate and our business may suffer. Our future success will depend on, among other things, our ability to: • adapt our services and maintain and improve the quality of our services; • protect our Website from hackers and unauthorized access; • continue training, motivating and retaining our existing employees and attract and integrate new employees; and • develop and improve our operational, financial, accounting and other internal systems and controls. 37 Table of Contents Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties, and the expenses incurred in protecting our intellectual property rights, may adversely affect our business. We regard our copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property as critical to our success. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties may adversely affect our business and reputation. We rely on trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements with our employees, customers, business partners and others to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for third parties to obtain and use our intellectual property without authorization. For example, under the newly amended Patent Law of the PRC (promulgated by the NPC Standing Committee on December 27, 2008, and effective as of October 1, 2009), the PRC State Council’s Patent Administration Department may grant a compulsory license to individuals or entities to use our patent, once our exploitation of the patent has been determined to be violate the antitrust laws. Furthermore, the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property in Internet-related industries are uncertain and still evolving. In particular, the laws of the PRC and certain other countries are uncertain or do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Moreover, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Future litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims, which may force us to incur substantial legal expenses and, if determined adversely against us, materially disrupt our business. We cannot be certain that our products, services and intellectual property used in our normal course of business do not or will not infringe valid patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. We have in the past been, are currently, and may in the future be, subject to claims and legal proceedings relating to the intellectual property of others in the ordinary course of our business. In particular, if we are found to have violated the intellectual property rights of others, we may be enjoined from using such intellectual property, may be ordered to pay a fine and may incur licensing fees or be forced to develop alternatives. We may incur substantial expenses in defending against these third party infringement claims, regardless of their merit. Successful infringement claims against us may result in substantial monetary liability or may materially disrupt the conduct of our business by restricting or prohibiting our use of the intellectual property in question. For example, during 2006 five United States movie companies commenced a lawsuit against us in the PRC alleging that a movie download service we had been providing infringed their copyrights in the movies. In December 2006, the court decided the case against us, and ordered us to pay damages of approximately $138,000 to the U.S. movie companies. In addition, in 2007 a writer brought a lawsuit against us in China claiming that we violated his copyright to 190 SMS messages. The Chinese court decided the case against us, and we paid damages of approximately $13,000 to the writer. Moreover, during the year ended December 2012, we were sued by several vertical online video sites who alleged copyright infringement, and we reached settlement where we agreed to pay damages of $290,000. In addition, we provide search engine facilities capable of locating and accessing links to download MP3 music, movies, images and other multimedia files and/or other content hosted on third party Websites, which may not be protected by copyright law. In March 2008, we were sued by four major record companies, Sony BMG, Warner, Universal and Gold Label, which alleged that we provided music search links and download services that violated copyrights they owned. As of December 31, 2012, the lawsuits with these four record companies were still in process. Although an initial judgment has been in our favor as to most aspects of the case, both parties appealed to the higher court and therefore the judgment did not come into effect. We believe that the lawsuits will not be concluded at this stage of the proceedings, and therefore we cannot predict the outcome or resolution of these claims, and cannot determine at this point to what extent the plaintiffs’ allegations are meritorious either factually or legally, nor can we predict whether the plaintiffs will be successful in these lawsuits. It is possible that these lawsuits could conclude with final judgments against us, or settlements prior to final judgment, that would require us to pay damages or royalties to the plaintiffs. We may be subject to, and may expend significant resources in defending against, claims based on the content and services we provide over all of our Websites. As our services may be used to download and distribute information to others, there is a risk that claims may be made against us for defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement or based on the nature and content of such information. Furthermore, we could be subject to claims for the online activities of our users and incur significant costs in our defense. In the past, claims based on the nature and content of information that was posted online by users have been made in the United States against companies that provide online services. We do not carry any liability insurance against such risks. We could be exposed to liability for the selection of listings that may be accessible through our Websites or through content and materials that our users may post in classifieds, message boards, micro blog, chat rooms or other interactive services. If any information provided through our services contains errors, third parties may make claims against us for losses incurred in reliance on the information. We also offer Web-based e-mail and subscription services, which expose us to potential liabilities or claims resulting from: • unsolicited e-mail; • lost or misdirected messages; 38 Table of Contents • illegal or fraudulent use of e-mail; or • interruptions or delays in e-mail service. Investigating and defending any such claims may be expensive, even if they do not result in liability. We may not have exclusive rights to trademarks, designs and technologies that are crucial to our business. We have applied for initial registrations in the PRC and overseas, and/or changes in registrations relating to transfers of our key trademarks in the PRC, including Sohu.com logos, Sohu Fox logos, www.focus.com.cn, GoodFeel logos, Go2Map, Sogou logos, Sohu Focus, TLBB, ChangYou.com, cyou.com, TL logos, DMD, 7Road, DDTank, Wartune, Haishen, 17173 and the corresponding Chinese versions of the marks, so as to establish and protect our exclusive rights to these trademarks. We have also applied for patents relating to our business. While we have succeeded in registering the trademarks for most of these marks in the PRC under certain classes, the applications for initial registration, and/or changes in registrations relating to transfers, of some marks and/or of some of marks under other classes are still under examination by the Trademark Office of the SAIC, and relevant authorities overseas. While we have succeeded in obtaining some patents, some of our patent applications are still under examination by the State Intellectual Property Office of the PRC. Approvals of our initial trademark registration applications, and/or of changes in registrations relating to such transfers, or of our patent applications, are subject to determinations by the Trademark Office of the SAIC, the State Intellectual Property Office of the PRC and relevant authorities overseas that there are no prior rights in the applicable territory. We cannot assure that these applications will be approved. Any rejection of these applications could adversely affect our rights to the affected marks, designs and technologies. In addition, even if these applications are approved, we cannot assure you that any registered trademark or issued patent will be sufficient in scope to provide adequate protection of our rights. We face risks related to health epidemics and other outbreaks. Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of H1N1 flu, avian flu, SARS or other epidemics or outbreaks. China reported a number of cases of SARS in April 2003. In recent years, there have been reports of occurrences of H1N1 flu and avian flu in various parts of China, including a few confirmed human cases and deaths. Any prolonged recurrence of H1N1 flu, avian flu, SARS or other adverse public health developments in China may have a material adverse effect on our business operations. These could include illness and loss of our management and key employees, as well as temporary closure of our offices and related business operations, such as server operations, upon which we rely. Such loss of management and key employees or closures would severely disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our results of operations. We have not adopted any written preventive measures or contingency plans to combat any future outbreak of H1N1 flu, avian flu, SARS or any other epidemic. In addition, other major natural disasters may also adversely affect our business by, for example, causing disruptions of the Internet network or otherwise affecting access to our portals and our games. For example, after the Sichuan earthquake in May 2008, we suspended our delivering of online advertisements and our MMOG operations during a three-day national mourning period. We do not have business insurance coverage. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products, or offer them at a high price. As a result, we do not have any business liability, loss of data or disruption insurance coverage for our operations in China. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster might result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of our resources. We depend on brand advertising for a significant portion of our revenues, but the brand advertisement market includes many uncertainties, which could cause our brand advertising revenues to decline. We derive a significant portion of our revenues, and expect to derive a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future, from the sale of advertising on our Websites. Brand advertising revenues represented approximately 27% and 33% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, sales to our five largest advertisers accounted for approximately 10% and 11%, respectively, of our total brand advertising revenues. The growth of our brand advertising revenues relies on increased revenue from the sale of advertising spaces on our Websites, which may be affected by many of the following risk factors: • The brand advertising market is rapidly evolving in China. As a result, many of our current and potential advertising clients have limited experience using the Internet for advertising purposes and historically have not devoted a significant portion of their advertising budget to Internet-based advertising; • Changes in government policy could restrict or curtail our brand advertising services. For example, during the last several years, the PRC government enacted a series of regulations, administrative instructions and policies to restrict online medical advertising. As a result of these regulations, we may lose some of our existing medical advertising clients; 39 Table of Contents • Advertising clients may adopt the new methods and strategies other than brand advertising to promote their brand and therefore our advertising revenue would be negatively affected; • The acceptance of the Internet as a medium for advertising depends on the development of a measurement standard. No standards have been widely accepted for the measurement of the effectiveness of brand advertising. Industry-wide standards may not develop sufficiently to support the Internet as an effective advertising medium. If these standards do not develop, advertisers may choose not to advertise on the Internet in general or through our portals or search engines; and • We may not have systems that are sufficiently well-developed to support the CPM pricing models, and as a result, we may suffer system bugs that cause bad user experiences errors or omission in publishing our client’s advertisements, which could a have a negative impact on our brand advertising business. In addition, our ability to generate and maintain significant brand advertising revenues will also depend upon: • the development of a large base of users possessing demographic characteristics attractive to advertising clients; • the acceptance of brand advertisement as an effective way for business marketing by advertising clients; • the effectiveness of our advertising delivery, tracking and reporting systems; and • the resistance pressure on brand advertising prices and limitations on inventory. • the establishment of a successful business model to make our new products adaptable to portable devices, which has required, and will continue to require us, to make significant expenditures for research, development, promotion and operations. Our costs for brand advertising have increased significantly as a result of our investment in online video services. If we are unable to manage the growth of our online video business successfully and control its operating expenses effectively, our business may be adversely affected. In 2007 we launched our video service, and its operation requires significant upfront capital expenditures as well as continuous, substantial investment in content, technology and infrastructure. Although we have attempted to control our costs relating to license fees, bandwidth and others for online video services, our operating expenses might increase significantly. We will require additional financial, operational, strategic, technological, personnel and other resources in order to compete with vertical online video sites that have raised significant capital through initial public offerings and other financing activities. Moreover, we are increasingly required to pay license fees for professionally-produced video content prior to its production. In view of this increasing requirement to pay such up-front fees and the fact that license fees have been increasing significantly, we may pay high prices for video content that proves to be unsuccessful following its launch on our Website. We may therefore incur substantial losses and our business may be adversely affected. Although China’s online video industry has experienced substantial growth in recent years in terms of both users and content, we cannot assure you that the online video industry will continue to grow as rapidly as it has in the past, if at all. With the development of technology, new forms of media may emerge and render online video Websites less attractive to users. Growth of the online video industry is affected by numerous factors, such as users’ general online video experience, technological innovations, development of Internet and Internet-based services, regulatory changes in general, and regulations affecting copyright in particular, and the macroeconomic environment. If the online video industry in China does not grow as quickly as expected or if we fail to benefit from such growth by successfully implementing our business strategies, our user traffic may decrease and our business and prospects may be adversely affected. We rely on advertising agencies to sell our brand advertising services. If current trends of consolidation of advertising agencies in the Chinese market continue, the bargaining power of the large advertising agencies resulting from such consolidation may permit them to require that we pay higher sales rebates, which would adversely affect our gross margin. Most of our brand advertising services are distributed by advertising agencies. In 2012, for example, approximately 85% of our brand advertising revenues were derived from advertising agencies. In consideration for these agencies’ services, we are required to pay certain percentages of revenues as sales rebates. During 2012, the biggest 10 advertising agencies in China contributed approximately 40% of our brand advertising revenue. These advertising agencies currently are seeking consolidation in the market. If the brand advertising market is consolidated and effectively controlled by a small number of large advertising agencies, such advertising agencies may be in a position to demand higher sales rebates based on increased bargaining power, which could negatively affect our brand advertising growth. As an attempt to strengthen our bargaining power in the real estate market, we increased our focus on direct sales of our advertisement instead of reliance on using agencies during 2012. We are not sure whether such the change of focus will be successful as we expected, and if the change is not successful, we may lose our sale channel, which could adversely affect our financial performance. 40 Table of Contents The expansion of Internet advertisement blocking measures may result in a decrease of advertising revenues. The development of Web software that blocks Internet advertisements before they appear on a user’s screen may hinder the growth of online advertising. In December, 2011, the MIIT issued Several Provisions for Standardizing the Market Order of Internet Information Services, or the Several Provisions, which stipulate that where advertisements or other information windows unrelated to the functions of terminal software pop up at user terminals, Internet information service providers must provide users with prominent, functional virtual buttons allowing them to close or exit such windows. The Several Provisions may make it easier for Internet information users to block Internet advertisements and therefore make it more likely that they will choose to do so. Since our advertising revenues are generally based on user views, the expansion of advertisement blocking on the Internet may decrease our advertising revenues. As a result, such advertisements will not be tracked as a delivered advertisement. In addition, advertisers may choose not to advertise on the Internet or on our Websites because of the expansion of Internet advertisement blocking measures. In addition, increasing numbers of browsers include technical barriers designed to prevent Internet information service providers such as us to trail the browsing history of the Internet users, which is also like to adversely affect the growth of online advertising. If video content we acquire or license fails to attract and retain users and advertisers, we may not be able to generate sufficient user traffic to allow us to recoup our investment in such content. The success of our online video business is mainly depending largely depends on our ability to generate sufficient user traffic, through provision of attractive products, to in turn attract advertisers to place advertisements on our video Websites. In order to attract and retain users, we have needed, and will continue to need, to expend significant resources to develop in-house or acquire from third parties’ high-quality video content. In 2012, we purchased significant amounts of exclusive video contents, through which we generated user traffic and revenues by bartering for other video content from other parties or distributing to other third parties. We cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to acquire exclusive content rights in the future and our user traffic and revenues generated from such exclusive content rights could be reduced. Moreover, if we fail to produce in-house or acquire from third parties high-quality video content, or if video content we produce in-house or acquire proves to be less attractive to users than we anticipated, our user traffic and our market share could be adversely effected, which could result in our being unable to maintain or increase our video revenues and recoup our investment in content. Videos displayed on our Website may be found objectionable by PRC regulatory authorities, may subject us to penalties and other administrative actions, and may be subject us to liabilities for infringement of third-party intellectual property rights or other allegations. The PRC government has adopted regulations governing Internet access and the distribution of videos over the Internet. In addition to professionally produced content, we allow our users to upload videos to our Website. Our users can upload all types of content, including user-created and professionally produced content, and can upload graphic files for limited purposes, such as updating user biographies. Although we have adopted internal procedures to monitor the content displayed on our Website, due to the significant amount of content uploaded by our users, we may not be able to identify all videos or other content that may violate relevant laws and regulations. Failure to identify and prevent illegal or inappropriate content from being displayed on our Website may subject us to liability. To the extent that PRC regulatory authorities find any content displayed on our Website objectionable, they may require us to limit or eliminate the dissemination of such content on our Website, with take-down orders or otherwise. The SARFT publishes from time to time lists of content that it considers objectionable, and we must dedicate teams of employees to continually monitor user-uploaded content and remove content that is deemed objectionable. In addition, regulatory authorities may impose penalties on us based on content displayed on or linked to our Website in cases of significant violations, including a revocation of our operating licenses or a suspension or shutdown of our online operations. In the event that PRC regulatory authorities find the video content on our Website objectionable and impose penalties on us or take other administrative actions against us in the future, our business and reputation may be adversely affected. Moreover, the costs of compliance with these regulations may continue to increase as more content is uploaded by our users. We have been involved in litigation based on allegations of infringement of third-party copyright and other rights, such as privacy and image rights, due to the videos displayed on our Website. See “Risks Related to Our Business—We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims, which may force us to incur substantial legal expenses and, if determined adversely against us, materially disrupt our business.” While we have implemented internal procedures to review videos uploaded by our users and remove promptly from our Website any infringing videos after we receive infringement notifications from rights owners, due to the significant number of videos uploaded by users, we may not be able to identify all content that may infringe on third-party rights. Moreover, some rights owners may not send us a notice before bringing a lawsuit against us. Thus, our failure to identify unauthorized videos posted on our Website has subjected us to, and may in the future subject us to, claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights or other rights. In addition, we may be subject to administrative actions brought by the National Copyright Administration of the PRC or its local branches for alleged copyright infringement. 41 Table of Contents We may also face litigation or administrative actions for defamation, negligence, or other purported injuries resulting from videos we display on our Website. Such litigation and administrative actions, with or without merit, may be expensive and time-consuming and may result in significant diversion of resources and management attention from our business operations. Furthermore, such litigation or administrative actions may adversely affect our brand image and reputation. If we fail to retain key agencies or attract additional agencies for sales to our search customers, our search business may be adversely affected. We rely heavily on our nationwide distribution network of third-party agencies for our sales to, and collection of payment from, our search (including pay-for-click services) customers. If our agencies do not provide quality services to our customers or otherwise breach their contracts with them, we may lose our customers. We do not have long-term agreements with any of our agencies, including our key agencies, and cannot assure that we will continue to maintain favorable relationships with them. We rely on our Website Alliance members for a significant portion of our search revenues. If we fail to retain existing Website Alliance members or attract additional members, our revenues and growth may be adversely affected. By posting pay-for-click links on their Websites, we share the revenues generated from clicks by users with our Website Alliance members. For the year ended December 31, 2012, the total revenues generated from Website Alliance accounted for approximately 37% of our total pay-for-click revenues. We consider our Website Alliance critical to the future growth of our search revenues. If our Website Alliance members decide to use a competitor’s or their own Internet search services, or if we fail to attract additional Websites to join our Website Alliance, our search revenues may decline. Our search and others revenues may not sustain their growth or may decrease in the future. The growth of our search and others revenue is subject to, significantly, the following risks: • We may not be able to achieve greater market acceptance or gain additional market share from our existing competitors or new competitors; • Many of our current and potential customers have limited experience with the Internet as a marketing channel, and historically have not devoted a significant portion of their marketing budgets to online marketing and promotion. As a result, they may not consider the Internet to be an effective channel to promote their products and services as compared to traditional print and broadcast media; • Our success depends on providing products and services to attract users and enable users to have a high-quality Internet experience. A loss of users could weaken our brand and result in a loss of customers, which would have a material adverse effect on revenues; • We may be unable to retain our existing customers or attract new customers; • We rely heavily on our nationwide agency network of third-party agencies for our sales to, and collection of payment from, our customers. We cannot assure that we will continue to maintain favorable relationships with those agencies; and • We rely on our Website Alliance members for a significant portion of our search revenues. If we fail to retain existing Website Alliance members or attract additional members, our revenues and growth may be adversely affected. Wireless revenues have fluctuated in prior periods and may decrease in the future. Our wireless revenues are generated from mobile related services provided to mobile phone users via various forms of wireless products, including SMS, IVR, mobile games and RBT and through revenue-sharing arrangements with mobile network operators. The portion of our total revenues derived from wireless services has decreased in certain prior periods. For the year ended December 31, 2012, wireless revenues were around 4% of our total revenues. Wireless revenues may decrease in the future due to the possibilities that: • Our consumers may not understand our services or the fees they are being charged, may not be satisfied with our services and/or may not use our services on a regular basis; • Consumers may cancel their services at any time without notice; • Our wireless products may not be successfully launched and promoted; • Competitors, including China mobile network operators, may launch competing or better products than ours at any time; and 42 Table of Contents • Government policy may change in a way that restricts or curtails the services which we provide. The MIIT has proposed requiring all handset users (including pre-paid mobile phone users) to register using their real names. If this requirement is implemented, it may cause a decrease in new customers, and in turn, reduce our wireless revenues; and • Our wireless revenues generated from mobile network operators may decrease, as our customers may reduce their reliance on mobile network operators and purchase wireless products, including application software and accessories, through third-party mobile and online stores, such as Apple’s App Store. We rely on contracts with China mobile network operators in a number of ways with respect to our wireless services, including the billing of, and collection from, mobile phone users of wireless service fees. If our arrangements with China mobile network operators were to be terminated, altered or not renewed, or if such operators did not provide continuous or adequate service, our revenues could be reduced. In order to provide mobile related services to mobile phone users, we have to enter into agreements with China mobile network operators. We rely on China mobile network operators in the following ways: • We use China mobile network operators’ networks and gateways to provide wireless services; • We use and rely on China mobile network operators’ billing systems to charge our subscribers through the subscribers’ mobile phone bills; • We rely on China mobile network operators’ collection services to collect payments from subscribers; and • We rely on China mobile network operators’ infrastructure to further develop our wireless services. We face significant risks with respect to our arrangements with China mobile network operators which could adversely affect our wireless revenues. Such risks include the following: • China mobile network operators have been imposing increasingly strict requirements that allow them to oversee and control the wireless services market. If we do not operate our wireless business in accordance with these requirements, our wireless business may be suspended or terminated, our ranking may be reduced, and our applications for new service may be refused, which could negatively affect our wireless business. For example, China Mobile has imposed standards for the ranking of wireless service providers on its Monternet browser. If the grade given to us by this ranking system is lower than a certain set standard, we may be prohibited from providing certain kinds of wireless services. If we experience lower visit rates, for example, we could lose our existing ranking, which could cause our wireless revenues to be negatively impacted. Moreover, China Mobile may change the ranking standards at any time. • China mobile network operators on which we rely for service delivery and fee collections have in the past changed their operational requirements and billing practices in ways that have constrained our operations and limited our wireless revenues. Such China mobile network operators may make additional changes in the future, which could have an adverse impact on our wireless operations and revenues. • In order to recognize revenues and receive payment for services provided, we rely on billing confirmations from China mobile network operators as to the actual amount of services they have billed to the mobile phone users. We are unable to collect wireless service fees from an operator in certain circumstances due to technical issues with the operator’s network. We refer to these failures as an operator’s “failure rate,” which can vary from operator to operator. An operator’s failure rate can vary from month to month, ranging from 0% to 89%, and may change at any time without notice. If an operator encounters technical problems, increases in the failure rate for that operator could occur. • China mobile network operators have the power to set the terms, scope of service to be provided and service fees in our agreements with them, and we have limited bargaining power when negotiating such agreements. Therefore, we may need to agree to terms that are not favorable to us. In addition, China mobile network operators may unilaterally revise their agreements at any time. As a result of any such unfavorable contract terms, we could found to be in breach of our agreements with operators and be subject to penalties. We may not be able to enter into new agreements or renew existing agreements. Hence we may be in a more unfavorable position in providing mobile-related services. • China mobile network operators may refuse to allow us to supply certain services. For example, during the period from September 1, 2004 to July 31, 2005, one of our wireless services was temporarily suspended by China Mobile, based on allegations that we breached certain provisions of an agreement with a China Mobile subsidiary; and • We are required to follow the operators’ guidance in setting up wireless service fees. The service fees we pay for using an operator’s infrastructure are set on the basis of negotiation of annual contracts. Our negotiation leverage is limited if an operator increases its service fees or does not comply with the terms of our contract. We also rely on China mobile network operators to collect on our behalf the fees which they have billed to our mobile customers. If an operator requires us to reduce the wireless service fees charged to mobile customers, disallows us from billing certain inactive customers, refuses to pay us, requires us to share bad debts expenses, or limits the amount of wireless service fees which can be billed or requires us to comply with any new billing standards, our wireless revenues could be adversely affected. 43 Table of Contents China mobile network operators may diversify their operations and become our competitors. There are limited barriers to entry in the wireless services sector. It is generally easy for mobile service providers (“SPs”), including China mobile network operators, to enter the market and become our competitors. In addition, China mobile network operators could launch competing services at any time and could work with Content Providers (“CPs”) directly so that our ability to diversify our products might be limited. Moreover, if the mobile network operators were unwilling or found it unnecessary to work with us, we would not be able to find substitute partners. In July 2006, China Mobile introduced M. Music, an integrated music service platform through which China Mobile works directly with music record companies to provide downloads of music. In December 2006, China Mobile introduced its own WAP channel, “WAP Premier Select,” which is placed in prominent positions on Monternet and directly competes with SPs. Risks Related to China’s Telecommunications Infrastructure The telecommunications infrastructure in China, which is not as well developed as in the United States, may limit our growth. The telecommunications infrastructure in China is not well developed. Our growth will depend on the PRC government and state-owned enterprises establishing and maintaining a reliable Internet and telecommunications infrastructure to reach a broader base of Internet users in China. The Internet infrastructure, standards, protocols and complementary products, services and facilities necessary to support the demands associated with continued growth may not be developed on a timely basis or at all by the PRC government and state-owned enterprises. We depend on China Mobile, China Unicom, and China Telecom for telecommunications services, and any interruption in these services may result in severe disruptions to our business. Although private Internet service providers exist in China, almost all access to the Internet is maintained through China Mobile, China Unicom, and China Telecom under the administrative control and regulatory supervision of the MIIT. We rely on this infrastructure and China Mobile, China Unicom, and China Telecom to provide data communications capacity primarily through local telecommunications lines. Although the government has announced aggressive plans to develop the national information infrastructure, this infrastructure may not be developed and the Internet infrastructure in China may not be able to support the continued growth of Internet usage. In addition, we will have no access to alternative networks and services, on a timely basis if at all, in the event of any infrastructure disruption or failure. We have signed Bandwidth Provision and Server Hosting Agreements with China Mobile, China Unicom, and China Telecom. Under these agreements, we established six main service provision centers to support most of our core services in Beijing. However, as there are limited telecommunication infrastructure service providers, we may not be able to lease additional bandwidth on acceptable terms, on a timely basis, or at all. If we are not able to lease additional bandwidth, the development of our business can be affected. To the extent we are unable to scale our systems to meet the increasing PRC Internet population, we will be unable to expand our user base and increase our attractiveness to advertisers and merchants. As Web page volume and traffic increase in China, we may not be able to scale our systems proportionately. To the extent we do not successfully address our capacity constraints, our operations may be severely disrupted, and we may not be able to expand our user base and increase our attractiveness to advertisers and merchants. Even if we scale our systems proportionately, any unforeseen increase in traffic may disrupt our operations and make it difficult for our users to visit our Websites, or even cause users to be unable to access our Websites at all, which could result in a loss of users. Unexpected network interruptions caused by system failures may result in reduced user traffic, reduced revenue and harm to our reputation. Our Website operations are dependent upon Web browsers, Internet service providers, content providers and other Website operators in China, which have experienced significant system failures and system outages in the past. Our users have in the past experienced difficulties due to system failures unrelated to our systems and services. Any system failure or inadequacy that causes interruptions in the availability of our services, or increases the response time of our services, as a result of increased traffic or otherwise, could reduce our user satisfaction, future traffic and our attractiveness to users and advertisers. For example, on February 14, 2009, our blog services were disconnected because of a power loss affecting China Unicom. Although such disconnection did not have any material adverse effect on our business, we cannot assure that our business would not be affected negatively by any future similar events. 44 Table of Contents Our operations are vulnerable to natural disasters and other events, as we only have limited backup systems and do not maintain any backup servers outside of China. We have limited backup systems and have experienced system failures and electrical outages from time to time in the past, which have disrupted our operations. Most of our servers and routers are currently hosted in a single location within the premises of BTA. Our disaster recovery plan cannot fully ensure safety in the event of damage from fire, floods, typhoons, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events. If any of the foregoing occurs, we may experience a complete system shutdown. We do not carry any business interruption insurance. To improve the performance and to prevent disruption of our services, we may have to make substantial investments to deploy additional servers or one or more copies of our Websites to mirror our online resources. Although we carry property insurance with low coverage limits, our coverage may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses, particularly with respect to loss of business and reputation that may occur. Our network operations may be vulnerable to hacking, viruses and other disruptions, which may make our products and services less attractive and reliable. Internet usage could decline if any well-publicized compromise of security occurs. “Hacking” involves efforts to gain unauthorized access to information or systems or to cause intentional malfunctions or loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment. Hackers, if successful, could misappropriate proprietary information or cause disruptions in our service. We may be required to expend capital and other resources to protect our Website against hackers. We cannot assure you that any measure we may take will be effective. In addition, the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could expose us to a material risk of loss or litigation and possible liability, as well as materially damage our reputation and decrease our user traffic. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure In order to comply with PRC regulatory requirements, we operate our main business through companies with which we have contractual relationships but in which we do not have an actual ownership interest. If our current ownership structure is found to be in violation of current or future PRC laws, rules or regulations regarding the legality of foreign investment in the PRC Internet sector, we could be subject to severe penalties. Various regulations in the PRC restrict or prohibit WFOEs from operating in specified industries such as Internet information, online game, wireless, Internet access, and certain other industries. We are , a Delaware corporation, and Sohu Hong Kong, our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary and the parent company of Sohu Software, Sohu Media, Sohu New Momentum and Sohu Era, Go2Map Inc., our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary and parent company of Go2Map Software, Sogou Hong Kong, our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary and the parent company of Sogou Technology, Vast Creation, our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary and the parent company of Sogou Network, Video Hong Kong, our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary and the parent company of Video Tianjin, Changyou HK, our indirect majority-owned subsidiary and the parent company of AmazGame, Gamespace and ICE Information, and Changyou HK Webgames, our indirect majority-owned subsidiary and the ultimate, indirect majority parent company of 7Road Technology, are foreign persons under PRC law. In order to comply with PRC regulatory requirements, we conduct our Internet and value-added telecommunication operations in the PRC through our VIEs that are incorporated in the PRC and owned by certain of our employees. Through a series of contractual arrangements, our VIEs, for which Sohu is their primary beneficiary, are effectively controlled by our indirect wholly-owned and majority-owned PRC subsidiaries. The MIIT issued a circular in 2006 that emphasizes restrictions on foreign investment in value-added telecommunications businesses. In addition, a notice issued in 2009 by the GAPP, the National Copyright Administration, and the National Office of Combating Pornography and Illegal Publications states that foreign investors are not permitted to invest in online game operating businesses in China or to exercise control over or participate in the operation of such businesses through indirect means. Due to a lack of interpretative materials from the relevant PRC authorities, there are uncertainties regarding whether PRC authorities would consider our corporate structure and contractual arrangements to be a kind of foreign investment in value-added telecommunications services or online game operation businesses. While we are not aware of any internet company which use the same or similar contractual arrangements as we do having been penalized or ordered to terminate operations by PRC authorities claiming that the arrangements constituted foreign investment in value-added telecommunication services or a kind of control over or participation in the operation of online game operating businesses through indirect means, it is unclear whether and how the various regulations of the PRC authorities might be interpreted or implemented in the future. For a detailed discussion of PRC regulations, notices and circulars with respect to such restrictions, see “Specific Regulations—Regulation of Foreign Direct Investment in Value-Added Telecommunications Companies” and “Specific Regulations—Regulation of the Online Game Services—Online Games and Cultural Products.” 45 Table of Contents In addition, pursuant to Circular 6 and the MOFCOM Security Review Rules, a security review is required for mergers and acquisitions by foreign investors having “national defense and security” concerns and mergers and acquisitions by which foreign investors may acquire “de facto control” of domestic enterprises with “national security” concerns and prohibit foreign investors from bypassing the security review requirement by structuring transactions through proxies, trusts, indirect investments, leases, loans, control through contractual arrangements or offshore transactions. These national security review-related regulations are relatively new and there is a lack of clear statutory interpretation regarding the implementation of the rules, and PRC authorities may interpret these regulations to mean that the transactions implementing our VIE structures should have been submitted for review. Moreover, various media sources reported that the CSRC prepared a report for the PRC State Council in 2011, or the State Council, suggesting regulating the use of VIE structures, such as ours, in the context of foreign investment in China and overseas listings. For a discussion of these PRC national security review requirements, see “Specific Regulations—Miscellaneous—Regulation of M&A and Overseas Listings” If we were found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC law or regulations relating to foreign ownership of value-added telecommunications businesses and security reviews of foreign investments in such businesses, including online games businesses, regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over the operation of our business would have broad discretion in dealing with such a violation, including levying fines, confiscating our income, revoking the business or operating licenses of PRC subsidiaries or and/or VIEs, requiring us to restructure our ownership structure or operations, requiring us to discontinue or divest ourselves of all or any portion of our operations or assets, restricting our right to collect revenues, blocking our Websites, or imposing additional conditions or requirements with which we may not be able to comply. Any of these actions could cause significant disruption to our business operations and have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, if changes were required to be made to our ownership structure, our ability to consolidate our VIEs could be adversely affected. We may be unable to collect long-term loans to officers and employees or exercise management influence associated with High Century, Sohu Entertainment, Zhi Hui You , Tianjin Jinhu, Sogou Information, Gamease, Shanghai ICE, Guanyou Gamespace, GoodFeel, Yi He Jia Xun and Intelligence World. As of December 31, 2012, Sohu had outstanding long-term loans of $18.3 million to Dr. Charles Zhang and certain executive officer and employees. These long-term loans are used to finance investments in our VIEs High Century, Sohu Entertainment, Zhi Hui You, Tianjin Jinhu, Sogou Information, Gamease, Shanghai ICE, Guanyou Gamespace, GoodFeel, Yi He Jia Xun and Intelligence World, which are used to facilitate our participation in telecommunications, Internet content, online games and certain other businesses in China where foreign ownership is either prohibited or restricted. The loan agreements contain provisions that, subject to PRC laws, (i) the loans can only be repaid to us by transferring the shares of High Century, Sohu Entertainment, Zhi Hui You, Tianjin Jinhu, Sogou Information, Gamease, Shanghai ICE, Guanyou Gamespace, GoodFeel, Yi He Jia Xun and Intelligence World to us; (ii) the shares of High Century, Sohu Entertainment, Zhi Hui You, Tianjin Jinhu, Sogou Information, Gamease, Shanghai ICE, Guanyou Gamespace, GoodFeel, Yi He Jia Xun and Intelligence World cannot be transferred by the borrowers without our approval; and (iii) we have the right to appoint all directors and senior management personnel of High Century, Sohu Entertainment, Zhi Hui You, Tianjin Jinhu, Sogou Information, Gamease, Shanghai ICE, Guanyou Gamespace, GoodFeel and Yi He Jia Xun. Under the loan agreements the borrowers have pledged all of their shares in High Century, Sohu Entertainment, Zhi Hui You, Tianjin Jinhu, Sogou Information, Gamease, Shanghai ICE, Guanyou Gamespace, GoodFeel, Yi He Jia Xun and Intelligence World as collateral for the loans, and the loans bear no interest and are due on the earlier of a demand or such time as Dr. Charles Zhang or one of the other employee borrowers, as the case may be, is not an employee of Sohu. Sohu does not intend to request repayment of the loans as long as PRC regulations prohibit it from directly investing in businesses being undertaken by the VIEs. Because these loans can only be repaid by the borrowers’ transferring the shares of the various entities, our ability to ultimately realize the effective return of the amounts advanced under these loans will depend on the profitability of High Century, Sohu Entertainment, Zhi Hui You, Tianjin Jinhu, Sogou Information, Gamease, Shanghai ICE, Guanyou Gamespace, GoodFeel, Yi He Jia Xun and Intelligence World and is therefore uncertain. In addition, to the extent that the VIEs have undistributed after tax net income, we will be required to pay individual income tax, at the tax rate of 20%, on behalf of the employees who hold interests in the VIEs when transferring the shareholding from other individuals, which may further increase the uncertainty involved for transferring shares of various entities. Furthermore, because of uncertainties associated with PRC law, ultimate enforcement of the loan agreements is uncertain. Accordingly, we may never be able to collect these loans or exercise influence over High Century, Sohu Entertainment, Zhi Hui You, Tianjin Jinhu, Sogou Information, Gamease, Shanghai ICE, Guanyou Gamespace, GoodFeel, Yi He Jia Xun and Intelligence World. 46 Table of Contents We depend upon contractual arrangements with our VIEs for the success of our business and these arrangements may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct ownership of these businesses and may be difficult to enforce. Because we conduct our Internet operations mainly in the PRC, and are restricted or prohibited by the PRC government from owning Internet content, telecommunication, online games operations and certain other operations in the PRC, we are dependent on our VIEs in which we have no direct ownership interest, to provide those services through contractual agreements among the parties. These arrangements may not be as effective in providing control over our Internet content, telecommunications operations, online games operations and certain other as direct ownership of these businesses. For example, if we had direct ownership of our VIEs, we would be able to exercise our rights as a shareholder to effect changes in their boards of directors, which in turn could effect changes at the management level. Due to our VIE structure, we have to rely on contractual rights to effect control and management of our VIEs, which exposes us to the risk of potential breach of contract by the shareholders of the VIEs. In addition, as each of our VIEs is jointly owned by its shareholders, it may be difficult for us to change our corporate structure if such shareholders refuse to cooperate with us. In addition, some of our subsidiaries and VIEs could fail to take actions required for our business, such as entering into content development contracts with potential content suppliers or failing to maintain the necessary permits for the content servers. Furthermore, if the shareholders of any of our VIEs were involved in proceedings that had an adverse impact on their shareholder interests in such VIE or on our ability to enforce relevant contracts related to the VIE structure, our business would be adversely affected. The shareholders of the VIEs may breach, or cause the VIEs to breach, the VIE contracts for a number of reasons. For example, their interests as shareholders of the VIEs and the interests of our subsidiaries may conflict and we may fail to resolve such conflicts; the shareholders may believe that breaching the contracts will lead to greater economic benefit for them; or the shareholders may otherwise act in bad faith. If any of the foregoing were to happen, we might have to rely on legal or arbitral proceedings to enforce our contractual rights. In addition, disputes may arise among the shareholders of any of our VIEs with respect to their ownership of such VIE, which could lead them to breach their agreements with us. Such arbitral and legal proceedings and disputes may cost us substantial financial and other resources, and result in disruption of our business, and the outcome might not be in our favor. For example, a PRC court or arbitration panel could conclude that our VIE contracts violate PRC law or are otherwise unenforceable. If the contractual arrangements with any of our VIEs were found by PRC authorities with appropriate jurisdiction to be unenforceable, we could lose our ability to consolidate such VIE’s results of operations, assets and liabilities in our consolidated financial statements and/or to transfer the revenues of such VIE to our corresponding PRC subsidiary. A failure by our VIEs or their shareholders to perform their obligations under our contractual arrangements with them could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. As all of these contractual arrangements are governed by PRC law and provide for the resolution of disputes through either arbitration or litigation in the PRC, they would be interpreted in accordance with PRC law and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. We would have to rely for enforcement on legal remedies under PRC law, including specific performance, injunctive relief or damages, which might not be effective. For example, if we sought to enforce the equity interest purchase right agreements for the transfer of equity interests in any of our VIEs, if the transferee was a foreign company the transfer would be subject to approval by PRC governmental authorities such as the MIIT and the MOFCOM, and the transferee would be required to comply with various requirements, including qualification and maximum foreign shareholding percentage requirements. As these PRC governmental authorities have wide discretion in granting such approvals, we could fail to obtain such approval. In addition, our VIE contracts might not be enforceable in China if PRC governmental authorities or courts took the view that such contracts contravened PRC law or were otherwise not enforceable for public policy reasons. Furthermore, the legal environment in the PRC is not as developed as in other jurisdictions, such as the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could further limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements. In the event we were unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, we would not be able to exert effective control over our VIEs, and our ability to conduct our business, and our financial condition and results of operations, would be severely adversely affected. The contractual arrangements between our subsidiaries and our VIEs may result in adverse tax consequences. PRC laws and regulations emphasize the requirement of an arm’s length basis for transfer pricing arrangements between related parties. The laws and regulations also require enterprises with related party transactions to prepare transfer pricing documentation to demonstrate the basis for determining pricing, the computation methodology and detailed explanations. Related party arrangements and transactions may be subject to challenge or tax inspection by PRC tax authorities. 47 Table of Contents Under a tax inspection, if our transfer pricing arrangements between the China-based subsidiaries and VIEs are judged as tax avoidance, or related documentation does not meet the requirements, our China-based subsidiaries and VIEs may be subject to material adverse tax consequences, such as transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could result in a reduction, for PRC tax purposes, of adjustments recorded by VIEs, which could adversely affect us by (i) increasing VIE’s tax liabilities without reducing our subsidiaries’ tax liabilities, which could further result in interest and penalties being levied on us for unpaid taxes; or (ii) limiting the ability of our PRC companies to maintain preferential tax treatment and other financial incentives. In addition, if for any reason we needed to cause the transfer of any of the shareholders’ equity interest in any of our VIEs to a different nominee shareholder (such as if, for example, one of such shareholders was no longer employed by us), we might be required to pay individual income tax, on behalf of the transferring shareholder, on any gain deemed to have been realized by such shareholder on such transfer. We may lose the ability to use and enjoy assets held by any of our VIEs that are important to the operation of our business if such VIE declares bankruptcy or becomes subject to a dissolution or liquidation proceeding. Each of our VIEs holds assets, such as our core intellectual property, licenses and permits, that are critical to our business operations. Although the equity interest purchase right agreements among our WFOEs, our VIEs and the shareholders of our VIEs contain terms that specifically obligate the shareholders of our VIEs to ensure the valid existence of our VIEs, in the event the shareholders breached these obligations and voluntarily liquidated our VIEs, or if any of our VIEs declared bankruptcy and all or part of its assets became subject to liens or rights of third-party creditors, we might be unable to continue some or all of our business operations. Furthermore, if any of our VIEs were to undergo a voluntary or involuntary liquidation proceeding, its shareholders or unrelated third-party creditors might claim rights to some or all of such VIE’s assets and their rights could be senior to our rights under the VIE contracts, thereby hindering our ability to operate our business. Frequent press reports in the United States questioning the VIE structure used by us and other Chinese companies publicly-traded in the United States appear to have created concern among investors, and may cause such an effect in the future. In recent years various prominent Western news outlets have questioned the use by Chinese companies that are publicly-trade in the United States of VIE structures as a means of complying with Chinese laws prohibiting or restricting foreign ownership of certain businesses in China, including businesses we are engaged in such as Internet information and content, online advertising, online game, sponsored search, and value-added telecommunication services. Some of such news reports have also sought to draw a connection between recent widely reported accounting issues at certain Chinese companies and the use of VIE structures. Such news reports appear to have had the effect of causing concern among investors in several Chinese companies, including us, that are publicly-traded in the United States. While we are not aware of any causal connection between the recently reported accounting scandals and the use of VIE structures, it is possible that investors in our common stock will believe that such a connection exists. Any of such circumstances could lead to further loss of investor confidence in Chinese companies such as ours and cause fluctuations in the market prices of our common stock and, if such prices were to drop sharply, could subject us to shareholder litigation, which could cause the price for our shares to drop further. Risks Related to China’s Regulation Environment Political, economic and social policies of the PRC government could affect our business. Substantially all of our business, operating assets, fixed assets and operations are located in China, and substantially all of our revenues are derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our business may be adversely affected by changes in political, economic or social conditions in China, adjustments in PRC government policies or changes in laws and regulations. The economy of China differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in a number of respects, including: • structure; • level of government involvement; • level of development; • level of capital reinvestment; • growth rate; • control of foreign exchange; and • methods of allocating resources. 48 Table of Contents Since 1949, China has been primarily a planned economy subject to a system of macroeconomic management. Although the PRC government still owns a significant portion of the productive assets in China, economic reform policies since the late 1970s have emphasized decentralization, autonomous enterprises and the utilization of market mechanisms. We cannot predict the future effects of the economic reform and macroeconomic measures adopted by the PRC government on our business or results of operations. Furthermore, the PRC government began to focus more attention on social issues in recent years and has promulgated or may promulgate additional laws or regulations in this area, which could affect our business in China. The PRC legal system embodies uncertainties which could limit the legal protections available to us and you, or could lead to penalties on us. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. Our PRC operating subsidiaries, Sohu Software, Go2Map Software, Sohu Media, Sohu New Momentum, Video Tianjin, Sogou Technology, Sogou Network, AmazGame, Gamespace, ICE Information, 7Road Technology and Sohu Era, are WFOEs, which are enterprises incorporated in China and wholly-owned or majority-owned by our indirect subsidiaries. Those WFOEs are subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China. In addition, all of our subsidiaries and VIEs are incorporated in China and subject to all applicable Chinese laws and regulations. Because of the relatively short period for enacting such a comprehensive legal system, it is possible that the laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us and other foreign investors, including you. Such uncertainties may also make it easier for others to infringe our intellectual property without significant cost, and new entrants to the market may tend to use gray areas to compete with us. In addition, uncertainties in the PRC legal system may lead to penalties imposed on us because of a difference in interpretation of the applicable law between the relevant governmental authority and us. For example, under current tax laws and regulations, we are responsible for paying business tax on a “Self-examination and Self-application” basis. However, since there is no clear guidance as to the applicability of certain areas of preferential tax treatment, we may be found to be in violation of the tax laws and regulations based on the interpretation of local tax authorities with regard to the scope of taxable services and the applicable tax rates, and therefore might be subject to penalties, including monetary penalties. In addition, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the PRC legal system, particularly with regard to the Internet, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. The enforcement of the PRC Labor Contract Law and other labor-related regulations in the PRC may adversely affect our business and results of operations. The Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress of the PRC enacted the Labor Contract Law in 2008. The Labor Contract Law introduced specific provisions related to fixed-term employment contracts, part-time employment, probationary periods, consultation with labor unions and employee assemblies, employment without a written contract, dismissal of employees, severance, and collective bargaining to enhance previous PRC labor laws. Under the Labor Contract Law, an employer is obligated to sign an unlimited-term labor contract with any employee who has worked for the employer for ten consecutive years. Further, if an employee requests or agrees to renew a fixed-term labor contract that has already been entered into twice consecutively, the resulting contract, with certain exceptions, must have an unlimited term, subject to certain exceptions. With certain exceptions, an employer must pay severance to an employee where a labor contract is terminated or expires. In addition, the PRC governmental authorities have continued to introduce various new labor-related regulations since the effectiveness of the Labor Contract Law. For example, there are regulations which require that annual leave ranging from five to 15 days be made available to employees and that employees be compensated for any unused annual leave days at a rate of three times their daily salary, subject to certain exceptions. Under the PRC Social Insurance Law and the Administrative Measures on Housing Fund, employees are required to participate in pension insurance, work-related injury insurance, medical insurance, unemployment insurance, maternity insurance and housing funds and employers are required, together with their employees or separately, to pay the social insurance premiums and housing funds for their employees. These laws designed to enhance labor protection tend to increase our labor costs. In addition, as the interpretation and implementation of these regulations are still evolving, its employment practices may not be at all times be deemed in compliance with the regulations. As a result, we could be subject to penalties or incur significant liabilities in connection with labor disputes or investigations. If we are found to be in violation of current or future PRC laws, rules or regulations regarding Internet-related services and telecom-related activities, we could be subject to severe penalties. The PRC has enacted regulations that apply to Internet-related services and telecom-related activities. While many aspects of these regulations remain unclear, they purport to limit and require licensing of various aspects of the provision of Internet information and content, online advertising, online game, and wireless services. 49 Table of Contents Under the Measures for the Administration of the Transmission of Audiovisual Programs over Internet and other Information Networks issued by the SARFT (“SARFT Measures”), which came into effect on October 11, 2004, Websites authorized to disseminate news must apply to the SARFT to obtain a Permit for the Network Transmission of Audiovisual Programs in order to disseminate streaming video online. In addition, SARFT issued the Catalogue of Classification of Internet Audio-Video Program Services (Trial) on April 1, 2010, pursuant to which the business of providing public program searching and watching services through the Internet to the public is classified as an Internet audio-video program service for which a Permit for the Network Transmission of Audiovisual Programs is required. On May 31, 2008, Sohu Internet received a Permit for the Network Transmission of Audiovisual Programs, issued by the SARFT. However, Sogou Information has not yet been granted such a license. If Sogou’s provision of video search services is later challenged by the SARFT, we may be subject to severe penalties, including fines, or the suspension of our video search services or even our operations. In addition, Sohu’s online video businesses are operated under various Websites, such as sohu.com, focus.cn and sogou.com, but current PRC laws and regulations are lack of clear provisions indicating whether it is permissible to provide video services over several Websites that are owned by a single company under one permit and the SARFT might claim that such operation under one permit is not allowed under the SARFT Measures. If the SARFT were to make such a claim, we could face penalties from the SARFT, such as fines, cancellation of our existing permit, or the forced discontinuation or restriction on our video services or even our operations. If we are ordered to suspend our services, our user traffic will be reduced and therefore our revenues will be negatively affected. In addition, the MOC has issued several sets of regulations with respect to online music search services, including the Provisional Regulations for the Administration of Online Culture (“Online Culture Regulation”) effective on July 1, 2003 and further amended on July 1, 2004, and the Notice on Strengthening and Improving the Content Censorship of Online Music Content (“MOC Notice”) issued on September 3, 2009. The MOC has stipulated that the provision of online music search services constitutes disseminating music products via the Internet for which an Online Culture Permit is required. Sogou Information accordingly applied for and was granted such a permit in November, 2010. In addition, the MOC requires that domestic music products be registered with the MOC within 30 days after being made available online, while imported music products must be approved by the MOC before being made available online. Due to the lack of relevant implementation rules, search companies, including Sogou, were unable to complete registration and approval procedures with the MOC. However, on January 7, 2011, March 17, 2011 and August 19, 2011 the MOC separately issued the Notice to Clean Up Illegal Online Music Product, Notice to Clean Up the second batch of Illegal Online Music Product and Notice to Clean Up the third batch of Illegal Online Music Product ( “New MOC Notices”) to further strengthen the supervision of online music search, which reiterated that domestic music products must be registered with the MOC within 30 days after being made available online, while imported music products must be approved by the MOC before being made available online. In addition, the New MOC Notices specifically mentioned that the three batches of 300 imported song that had never been approved by the MOC needed to be removed immediately and deleted from the search results of online music search service providers beginning February 28, 2011, April 30, 2011 and September 15, 2011, respectively. Compliance with the MOC’s filing and registration requirements for online music products may increase our costs of operation for the search business. Moreover, the 300 songs specified in the New MOC Notices may not be the final list. We are not able to register all of the online music products that appear in our search results. Therefore, if the MOC were to claim that we are not in compliance with MOC rules and regulations, we could face penalties, including fines. In addition, our search results for online music products may be negatively affected, which in turn would have an adverse effect on our search business. We cannot assure you that we have fully complied with or will in the future always comply with the MOC rules and regulations regarding approval and filing procedures for online music products. Any such failure that caused restrictions on the availability of some music research results could reduce our user satisfaction, and our attractiveness to users and advertisers. Compliance with the requirements of the MOC rules and regulations could make it difficult for us to maintain our music search business at an economically acceptable cost, and could force us to change our search business model. Furthermore, it is possible that the MOC or another PRC governmental authority in China will promulgate new laws, rules or regulations further restricting online music search business in the future. Any such restrictions could result in higher costs for our search engine operation, which would have an adverse effect on our profitability. In addition, the PRC government may promulgate new laws, rules or regulations at any time. If current or future laws, rules or regulations regarding Internet-related activities are interpreted to be inconsistent with our ownership structure and/or our business operations, our business could be severely impaired and we could be subject to severe penalties. 50 Table of Contents PRC laws and regulations mandate complex procedures for some acquisitions of Chinese companies by foreign investors, which could make it more difficult for us to make acquisitions in China. PRC laws and regulations, such as the M &A Rules, which were jointly issued by six PRC regulatory agencies on August 8, 2006 and became effective on September 8, 2006, the Anti-Monopoly Law and the MOFCOM Security Review Rules, established additional procedures and requirements that are expected to make merger and acquisition activities in China by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the MOFCOM be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise, or that the approval from the MOFCOM be obtained in circumstances where overseas companies established or controlled by PRC enterprises or residents acquire affiliated domestic companies. PRC laws and regulations also require certain merger and acquisition transactions to be subject to a merger control security review. The MOFCOM Security Review Rules, effective from September 1, 2011, further provide that, when deciding whether a specific merger or acquisition of a domestic enterprise by foreign investors is subject to a security review by the MOFCOM, the principle of substance over form should be applied and foreign investors are prohibited from bypassing the security review requirement by structuring transactions through proxies, trusts, indirect investments, leases, loans, control through contractual arrangements of offshore transaction. Factors that the MOFCOM considers in its review are whether (i) an important industry is involved, (ii) such transaction involves factors that have had or may have an impact on national economic security and (iii) such transaction will lead to a change in control of a domestic enterprise that holds a well-known PRC trademark or a time-honored PRC brand. If a business of any target company that we plan to acquire falls into the ambit of security review, we may not be able to successfully acquire such company. Complying with the requirements of the relevant regulation to complete any such transaction could be time-consuming, and any required approval process, including approval from the MOFCOM, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business. Even if we are in compliance with PRC governmental regulations relating to licensing and foreign investment prohibitions, the PRC government may prevent us from distributing, and we may be subject to liability for, content that it believes is inappropriate. The PRC has enacted regulations governing Internet access and the distribution of news and other information. In the past, the PRC government has stopped the distribution of information over the Internet that it believes to violate PRC law, including content that is obscene, incites violence, endangers national security, is contrary to the national interest or is defamatory. In addition, we may not publish certain news items, such as news relating to national security, without permission from the PRC government. Furthermore, the Ministry of Public Security has the authority to make any local Internet service provider block any Website maintained outside the PRC at its sole discretion. Even if we comply with PRC governmental regulations relating to licensing and foreign investment prohibitions, if the PRC government were to take any action to limit or prohibit the distribution of information through our network or to limit or regulate any current or future content or services available to users on our network, our business would be harmed. We are also subject to potential liabilities for content on our Websites that is deemed inappropriate and for any unlawful actions of our subscribers and other users of our systems under regulations promulgated by the MIIT, such potential liabilities including the imposition of fines or even the shutting down of the Website. Furthermore, we are required to delete content that clearly violates the laws of the PRC and report content that we suspect may violate PRC law. We may have difficulty determining the type of content that may result in liability for us and, if we are wrong, we may be prevented from operating our Websites. Sohu.com Inc. may need to rely on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by Sohu.com Limited and Changyou, our wholly-owned subsidiary and majority-owned subsidiary to fund any cash requirements we may have. Sohu.com Inc. may not be able to obtain cash from distributions because our subsidiaries and VIEs in China are subject to restrictions by PRC law or future debt covenants on paying such dividends or making other payments. Sohu.com Inc. is a holding company with no operating assets other than investments in Chinese operating entities through our intermediate holding companies, Sohu.com Limited and Changyou, our wholly-owned subsidiary and majority-owned subsidiary in the Cayman Islands, and our VIEs. Sohu.com Inc. may need to rely on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by Sohu.com Limited and Changyou for the cash requirements in excess of any cash raised from investors and retained by Sohu.com Inc. The primary source of any dividend payments made by Sohu.com Limited and Changyou to Sohu.com Inc. would need to be our subsidiaries in China after they receive payments from our VIEs under various services and other arrangements. It is possible that our China-based subsidiaries will not continue to receive payments in accordance with our contracts with our VIEs that such payments will become subject to restrictions imposed PRC law. Our subsidiaries and VIEs may incur debt on their own behalf in the future, and the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us through the intermediate companies. The PRC government also imposes controls on the convertibility of the RMB into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currencies out of China. We may experience difficulties in completing the administrative procedures necessary to obtain and remit foreign currencies. If we or any of our subsidiaries are unable to receive all of the revenues from our operations through these contractual or dividend arrangements, we may be unable to effectively finance our operations or pay dividends on our shares. 51 Table of Contents Dividends we receive from our operating subsidiaries located in the PRC are subject to PRC profit appropriation and PRC withholding tax. PRC legal restrictions permit payment of dividends by Sohu Software, Go2Map Software, Sohu Media, Sohu New Momentum, Video Tianjin, Sogou Technology, Sogou Network, AmazGame, Gamespace, ICE Information, 7Road Technology and Sohu Era, only out of their net income, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Under PRC law, Sohu Software, Go2Map Software, Sohu Media, Sohu New Momentum, Video Tianjin, Sogou Technology, Sogou Network, AmazGame, Gamespace, ICE Information, 7Road Technology and Sohu Era are also required to set aside 10% of their net income each year to fund certain reserve funds until these reserves equal 50% of the amount of paid-in capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. Furthermore, the CIT Law provides that a withholding tax at a rate of up to 20% may be applicable to dividends payable to non-PRC investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” to the extent that such dividends are derived from sources within the PRC. All of our foreign-invested enterprises have been subjected to withholding tax since January 1, 2008, generally at a 10% rate. Under the Arrangement Between the PRC and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region on the Avoidance of Double Taxation and Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income and Capital (“China-HK Tax Arrangement”), which became effective on January 1, 2007, the dividend withholding tax rate may be reduced to 5%, if a Hong Kong resident enterprise is considered a non-PRC resident enterprise and holds at least 25% of the equity interests in the PRC enterprise distributing the dividends, subject to approval of the PRC local tax authority. However, if the Hong Kong resident enterprise is not considered to be the beneficial owner of such dividends under applicable PRC tax regulations, such dividends may remain subject to withholding tax at a rate of 10%. On October 27, 2009, the PRC State Administration of Taxation issued a Notice on How to Understand and Determine the Beneficial Owners in Tax Agreement (“Circular 601”), which provides guidance on determining whether an enterprise is a “beneficial owner” under China’s tax treaties and tax arrangements. Circular 601 provides that, in order to be a beneficial owner, an entity generally must be engaged in substantive business activities and that a company that is set up for the purpose of avoiding or reducing taxes or transferring or accumulating profits, will not be regarded as a beneficial owner and will not qualify for treaty benefits such as preferential dividend withholding tax rates. If any of our Hong Kong subsidiaries is, in the light of Circular 601, considered to be a non-beneficial owner for purpose of the China-HK Tax Arrangement, any dividends paid to it by any of our PRC subsidiaries would not qualify for the preferential dividend withholding tax rate of 5%, but rather would be subject to the usual rate of 10%. Furthermore, to the extent that the VIEs have undistributed after-tax profits, we must pay tax on behalf of our employees who hold interests in the VIEs when the VIEs distribute dividends in the future. The current individual income tax rate is 20%. The non-U.S. activities of our non-U.S. subsidiaries and VIEs may be subject to U.S. taxation Sohu.com Inc. is a Delaware corporation and is subject to income taxes in the United States. The majority of our subsidiaries and VIEs are based in China and are subject to income taxes in the PRC. These China-based subsidiaries and VIEs conduct substantially all of our operations, and generate most of our income in China. In accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, we do not provide for U.S. federal income taxes or tax benefits on the undistributed earnings or losses of our non-U.S. subsidiaries or consolidated VIEs because, for the foreseeable future, we do not have the intention to repatriate those undistributed earnings or losses to the U.S., except that, under certain circumstances, Sohu.com Inc. may repatriate to the U.S. income that will be subject to U.S. Alternative Minimum Tax. However, certain activities conducted in the PRC may give rise to U.S. corporate income tax, even if there are no distributions to Sohu.com Inc. These taxes would be imposed on Sohu.com Inc. when its subsidiaries that are controlled foreign corporations (“CFCs”) generate income that is subject to Subpart F of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, or Subpart F. Passive income, such as rents, royalties, interest and dividend, is among the types of income subject to taxation under Subpart F. Any income taxable under Subpart F is taxable in the U.S. at federal corporate income tax rates of up to 35%. Subpart F income that is taxable to Sohu.com Inc., even if it is not distributed to Sohu.com, may also include income from intercompany transactions between Sohu.com Inc.’s non-U.S. subsidiaries and Changyou’s non-U.S. subsidiaries, or where Sohu.com Inc.'s non-U.S. subsidiaries makes an “investment in U.S. property,” within the meaning of Subpart F, such as holding the stock in, or making a loan to, a U.S. corporation. In prior years, Sohu.com Inc. has been able to not having to treat dividends received by its Cayman Islands subsidiary, Sohu.com Limited, from Changyou as Subpart F income, includible in Sohu.com Inc.’s taxable income in the U.S., by relying on what is commonly referred to as the CFC look-through rule. Under this rule, distributions from a lower-tier CFC to a higher-tier CFC are generally not Subpart F income. Applying this rule to the $136 million special cash dividend Sohu.com Limited received from Changyou in September 2012, no tax should be imposed on Sohu.com Inc. because Sohu.com Limited was able to avail itself of the CFC look-through rule. The CFC look-through rule is a temporary provision of the U.S. tax code that has been extended several times by the U.S. Congress. The provision is currently scheduled to expire for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2013. Unless further extended, the CFC look-through rule will be available for Sohu.com Inc.’s and Changyou.com Limited’s non-U.S. subsidiaries only through their taxable years ending November 30, 2014. Sohu.com Inc. would also be subject to U.S. corporate income tax under Subpart F to the extent that Sohu.com Inc.’s non-U.S. subsidiary sells Changyou ADSs at a price higher than its adjusted tax basis of such ADSs for U.S. federal income tax purposes. 52 Table of Contents Any such resulting U.S. corporate income tax imposed on Sohu.com Inc. would reduce our consolidated net income. Activities of Internet content providers are or will be subject to additional PRC regulations, which have not yet been put into effect. Our operations may not be consistent with these new regulations when put into effect, and, as a result, we could be subject to severe penalties. The MIIT has stated that the activities of Internet content providers are subject to regulation by various PRC government authorities, depending on the specific activities conducted by the Internet content provider. Various government authorities have stated publicly that they are in the process of preparing new laws and regulations that will govern these activities. The areas of regulation currently include online advertising, online news reporting, online publishing, provision of online or wireless music, online securities trading, the provision of industry-specific (e.g., drug-related) information over the Internet and foreign investment in value-added telecommunication services. For instance, the MOC issued Several Opinions of Development and Supervision of Online Music in November 2006. In accordance with the requirements of the MOC, we submitted most of the online music which we distributed in the PRC online or through wireless to the MOC for censoring and recording in March 2007. We may be required to be responsible for supervising nonprofit users’ distribution of online music on our portal. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we may be fined. Other aspects of our online operations may be subject to regulations in the future. Our operations may not be consistent with these new regulations when put into effect and, as a result, we may be subject to severe penalties as discussed above. Regulation and censorship of information distribution in China may adversely affect our business. China has enacted regulations governing Internet access and the distribution of news and other information. Furthermore, the Propaganda Department of the Chinese Communist Party takes the responsibility to censor news published in China to ensure, supervise and control a particular political ideology. In addition, the MIIT has published implementing regulations that subject online information providers to potential liability for contents included in their portals and the actions of subscribers and others using their systems, including liability for violation of PRC laws prohibiting the distribution of content deemed to be socially destabilizing. Furthermore, the MIIT may implement a requirement that users of blogs register under their real names. If such a regulation is implemented, our business may be negatively affected due to a decrease in the number of blog users. Furthermore, because many PRC laws, regulations and legal requirements with regard to the Internet are relatively new and untested, their interpretation and enforcement may involve significant uncertainty. In addition, the PRC legal system is a civil law system in which decided legal cases have limited binding force as legal precedents. As a result, in many cases a Website operator may have difficulties determining the type of content that may subject it to liability. Periodically, the Ministry of Public Security has stopped the distribution over the Internet of information which it believes to be socially destabilizing. Meanwhile, the Ministry of Public Security also has the authority to require any local Internet service provider to block any Website maintained outside China at its sole discretion. If the PRC government were to take action or exercise its authority to limit or eliminate the distribution of information through our portal or to limit or regulate current or future applications available to users of our portal, our business would be adversely affected. The State Secrecy Bureau, which is directly responsible for the protection of state secrets of all PRC government and Chinese Communist Party organizations, is authorized to block any Website it deems to be leaking state secrets or failing to meet the relevant regulations relating to the protection of state secrets in the distribution of online information. Under the applicable regulations, we may be held liable for any content transmitted on our portal. Furthermore, where the transmitted content clearly violates the laws of the PRC, we will be required to delete it. Moreover, if we consider transmitted content suspicious, we are required to report such content. We must also undergo computer security inspections, and if we fail to implement the relevant safeguards against security breaches, we may be shut down. In addition, under recently adopted regulations, Internet companies which provide bulletin board systems, chat rooms or similar services, such as our company, must apply for the approval of the State Secrecy Bureau. As the implementing rules of these new regulations have not been issued, we do not know how or when we will be expected to comply, or how our business will be affected by the application of these regulations. We may be subject to the PRC government’s ongoing crackdown on Internet pornographic content. The Chinese government has stringent supervisions on online pornographic information and has launched several crackdowns on Internet pornography in the last year. On December 4, 2009, the MIIT and other three PRC government authorities jointly issued the Incentives Measures for Report of Pornographic, Obscene and Vulgar Messages on Internet and Mobile Media (“Anti-Pornography Notice”) to further crackdown on online pornography. Pursuant to this Anti-Pornography Notice, rewards of up to RMB10,000 will be provided to Internet users who report Websites that feature pornography, and a committee has been established to review such reports to determine an appropriate award. We have deleted all Web pages with allegedly vulgar material from our relevant channels and communities. In addition, we have strengthened our internal censorship and supervision of links and content uploaded by the users. We have not, to date, received any penalty from the PRC government in this regard. However, there is no assurance that content considered vulgar by PRC government agencies will not appear in the future. In the event that we are accused by the government of hosting vulgar content, our reputation could be adversely affected. 53 Table of Contents Regulations requiring real-name-registration of micro-blogs in China may adversely affect our business. On December 26, 2011, the Beijing Municipal News Office, together with the Beijing Municipal Public Security Bureau, the Beijing Municipal Communications Administration and the Beijing Municipal Internet Information Office, jointly issued the Several Measures on the Administration of the Development of Micro-blog in Beijing (“Micro-blog Measures”), which took effect on the same date. The Micro-blog Measures stipulate that all micro-blogs operators in Beijing must require their users to register with real names and that all micro-blog operators must complete procedures required by the Internet information content regulatory authority of Beijing for the operation of micro-blog services. Pursuant to the Micro-blog Measures, all micro-blog operators must complete procedures required by the regulatory authority for the operation of micro-blog services and obtain real name registration of their users within three months after the effective date of the Micro-blog Measures. In order to comply with the Micro-blog Measures, we have added clauses into the agreements between the users of our micro-blog service and us requesting our micro-blog users to register using their real names. However, as the Micro-blog Measures are newly promulgated, we currently do not know how our micro-blog business will be affected by the application of the Micro-blog Measures. If the Beijing municipal government or other PRC government authorities were to take actions to tighten the supervision of real name registration of micro-blog users in accordance with the Micro-blog Measures, we might not be able to retain the active users of our micro-blog or attract new users of our micro-blog, which could have adverse impact on the stickiness of our micro-blog and thus adversely affect our business operations. Regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may limit our ability to acquire PRC companies and could adversely affect our business. In October 2005, the SAFE promulgated the Relevant Issues Concerning Foreign Exchange Control on Domestic Residents’ Corporate Financing and Roundtrip Investment through Offshore Special Purpose Vehicles (“Circular 75”). The SAFE has further issued a series of implementation guidance, including most recently the Notice of SAFE on Printing and Distributing the Implementing Rules for the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fund-Raising and Round-trip Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted via Offshore Special Purpose Companies (“Circular 19”), which went into effect on July 1, 2011. These regulations require PRC residents to register with the local SAFE branch before directly establishing or indirectly controlling any offshore company for the purpose of overseas capital financing with assets of or equity interests in PRC companies held by them and to file amendments to their registrations if their offshore companies experience material events involving capital variation, such as changes in share capital, share transfers, mergers and acquisitions, spin-off transactions, long-term equity or debt investments or providing guarantees. PRC residents’ failure to comply with the registration procedures may result in restrictions being imposed on the foreign exchange activities of the relevant PRC entity, including the payment of dividends and other distributions to its offshore parent, as well as restrictions on capital inflows from the offshore entity to the PRC entity. In an effort to comply with Circular 75 and related rules, we have requested our shareholders, and Changyou has requested its and 7Road’s shareholders, who are PRC residents to make the applications and registrations required under Circular 75 and related rules. However, it is possible that some or all of our, Changyou’s and 7Road’s shareholders who are PRC residents will not comply with all the requirements required by Circular 75 or related rules. In addition, Circular 19 requires compliance with certain additional registration procedures. For example, to apply for registration of a PRC resident’s investment in an offshore special purpose vehicle, the PRC resident must submit supporting documents evidencing such resident’s equity interest in the assets or equities of the PRC company. It is still uncertain how the guidance in Circular 19 will be interpreted and implemented and it may be difficult for our ultimate shareholders or beneficial owners who are PRC residents to provide sufficient supporting documents required by SAFE or to complete the required registration with SAFE in a timely manner, or at all. Any future failure by any of our, Changyou’s or 7Road’s shareholders who is a PRC resident, or controlled by a PRC resident, to comply with relevant requirements under these regulations could subject us, Changyou or 7Road to fines or sanctions imposed by the PRC government, including restrictions on our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends or make distributions to us and our ability to increase our investment in these subsidiaries. We may be subject to fines and legal sanctions if we or our employees who are PRC citizens fail to comply with PRC regulations relating to employee share options granted by overseas listed companies to PRC citizens. Under the Administration Measures on Individual Foreign Exchange Control issued by the PBOC and the related Implementation Rules issued by the SAFE, all foreign exchange transactions involving an employee share incentive plan, share option plan or similar plan participated in by PRC citizens may be conducted only with the approval of the SAFE. Under the Notice of Issues Related to the Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Stock Incentive Plan of Overseas Listed Company (“Offshore Share Incentives Rule”), issued by the SAFE on February 15, 2012, PRC citizens who are granted share options, restricted share units or restricted shares by an overseas publicly listed company are required to register with the SAFE or its authorized branch and comply with a series of other requirements. The Offshore Share Incentives Rule also provides procedures for registration of incentive plans, the opening and use of special accounts for the purpose of participation in incentive plans, and the remittance of funds for exercising options and gains realized from such exercises and sales of such options or the underlying shares, both outside and inside the PRC. We, and any of our PRC employees or members of our board of directors who have been granted share options, restricted share units or restricted shares, are subject to the Administration Measures on Individual Foreign Exchange Control, the related Implementation Rules, and the Offshore Share Incentives Rule. If we, or any of our PRC employees or members of our board of directors who receive or hold options, restricted share units or restricted shares, fail to comply with these registration and other procedural requirements, we may be subject to fines and other legal or administrative sanctions. 54 Table of Contents It may be difficult to enforce any civil judgments against us or our Board of Directors or officers, because most of our operating and/or fixed assets are located outside the United States. Although we are incorporated in the State of Delaware, most of our operating and fixed assets are located in the PRC. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to enforce judgments outside the United States obtained in actions brought against us in the United States, including actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States or of the securities laws of any state of the United States. In addition, certain of our directors and officers (principally based in the PRC) and all or a substantial portion of their assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon those directors and officers, or to enforce against them or us judgments obtained in United States courts, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States or of the securities laws of any state of the United States. We have been advised by our PRC counsel that, in their opinion, there is doubt as to the enforceability in the PRC, in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of United States courts, of civil liabilities predicated solely upon the federal securities laws of the United States or the securities laws of any state of the United States. If the status of our PRC subsidiaries and VIEs as “High and New Technology Enterprises” or “Software Enterprise” is revoked, we may have to pay additional taxes to make up any previously unpaid tax and may be subject to a higher tax rate, which would adversely affect our results of operations. In March 2007, the Chinese government enacted the Corporate Income Tax Law (“CIT Law”), and promulgated the related Implementing Regulations for the PRC Corporate Income Tax Law. The CIT Law and its implementing regulations went into effect on January 1, 2008. The CIT Law imposes, among other things, a unified income tax rate of 25% for both domestic and foreign invested enterprises. High and New Technology Enterprises (“NHTEs”) will enjoy a favorable tax rate of 15% for three years, but need to re-apply after the end of the three-year period. The Implementing Regulations for the PRC Corporate Income Tax Law also emphasize that the ownership of “core proprietary intellectual property” is essential to qualification for this preferential tax rate. Within the Sohu Group, there are five enterprises, Sohu Era, Sohu Media, Sogou Technology, AmazGame and Gamease, that were qualified as NHTEs in 2008 and re-qualified in 2011. Hence, for these enterprises the income tax rate is 15% for 2012 and 2013. There are two other enterprises, Sohu Internet and Sogou Information, that were qualified as NHTEs in 2009 and re-qualified in 2012. Therefore, for these enterprises the income tax rate is 15% for 2012 and the next two years. In addition, the CIT Law and its implementation rules provide that “Software Enterprise” can enjoy an income tax exemption for two years beginning with their first profitable year and a 50% tax reduction to rate of 12.5% for the subsequent three years. AmazGame and Gamease qualified as software enterprises and enjoyed an income tax exemption for the 2008 fiscal year and a 50% tax reduction to a rate of 12.5% for the 2009 fiscal year through the 2011 fiscal year. Shenzhen 7Road qualified as a software enterprise and enjoyed an income tax exemption for the 2009 and 2010 fiscal years and a 50% tax reduction to a rate of 12.5% for the 2011 and 2012 fiscal years. Shanghai ICE qualified as a software enterprise and enjoyed an income tax exemption for the 2010 and 2011 fiscal years and a 50% tax reduction to a rate of 12.5% for the subsequent three years. Gamespace qualified as a software enterprise and enjoyed and will be entitled to an income tax exemption for the 2012 and 2013 fiscal year and a 50% tax reduction to a rate of 12.5% for the subsequent three years. Guanyou Gamespace, ICE Information and 7Road Technology have been qualified as “software enterprises” and will be entitled to an income tax exemption for two years beginning with their first profitable year and a 50% tax reduction for the subsequent three years, if they continue to maintain their qualification. In addition, depending on the nature of the products provided, a value-added tax (“VAT”), at rate of 17% is imposed on revenues derived from products sold in domestic operations and exempts from VAT revenues from products sold in overseas operations. Shenzhen 7Road is required to pay VAT on revenues it derives from domestic operations, but is entitled to a tax refund which reduces its effective VAT rate to 3%. There are uncertainties regarding future interpretation and implementation of the CIT Law and its implementation rules. We cannot assure you that the NHTE and Software Enterprise qualifications of those operating entities, or their entitlement to an income tax exemption or refund of its VAT, will not be challenged by higher level tax authorities and be repealed, or that there will not be any future implementation rules that are inconsistent with current interpretation of the CIT Law. For example, according to a circular recently issued by the SAT, there will be new regulations promulgated by relevant authorities concerning new criteria to certify a Software Enterprise. Therefore, we cannot assure you that the qualification of any of our PRC subsidiaries or VIEs as a Software Enterprise will not be challenged in the future or whether such companies will able to take any further actions, such as re-application for Software Enterprise qualification, to enjoy such preferential tax treatments. If those operating entities cannot qualify for such income tax or VAT holidays, our effective income tax rate or VAT rate, as the case may be, will be increased significantly and we may have to pay additional income tax to make up the previously unpaid tax, which would reduce our net income. We may be deemed a PRC resident enterprise under the CIT Law and be subject to PRC taxation on our worldwide income. The CIT Law provides that enterprises established outside of China whose “de facto management bodies” are located within China are considered “resident enterprises” and are generally subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate on their worldwide income (including dividend income received from subsidiaries). Under the Implementing Regulations for the Corporate Income Tax Law, “de facto management body” is defined as a body that has material and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel and human resources, finances and treasury, and acquisition and disposition of properties and other assets of an enterprise. Although substantially all of our operational management is currently based in the PRC, it is unclear whether PRC tax authorities would require (or permit) us to be treated as a PRC-resident enterprise. If we were treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes, we will be subject to PRC tax on our worldwide income at the 25% uniform tax rate, which could have an impact on our effective tax rate and an adverse effect on our net income and the results of operations, although dividends distributed from our PRC subsidiaries to us could be exempted from Chinese dividend withholding tax, since such income is exempted under the CIT Law for PRC-resident recipients. 55 Table of Contents Dividends payable by us to our foreign investors and profits on the sale of our shares may be subject to tax under PRC tax laws. Under the Implementing Regulations for the Corporate Income Tax Law, PRC income tax at the rate of 10% is applicable to dividends payable to investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” not having an establishment or place of business in the PRC, or which do have such establishment or place of business but the relevant income is not effectively connected with the establishment or place of business, to the extent that such dividends have their sources within the PRC. Similarly, any profits realized through the transfer of shares by such investors are also subject to 10% PRC income tax if such profits are regarded as income derived from sources within the PRC. If we are considered a PRC “resident enterprise,” it is unclear whether dividends we pay with respect to our share, or the profits you may realize from the transfer of our shares, would be treated as income derived from sources within the PRC and be subject to PRC tax. If we are required under the Implementing Regulations for the Corporate Income Tax Law to withhold PRC income tax on dividends payable to our non-PRC investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” or if you are required to pay PRC income tax on the transfer of our shares, the value of your investment in our shares may be materially and adversely affected. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize our revenues effectively. Substantially all of our revenues and operating expenses are denominated in RMB. The RMB is currently freely convertible under the “current account”, which includes dividends, trade and service related foreign exchange transactions, but not under the “capital account”, which includes foreign direct investment. Currently, our China-based subsidiaries may purchase foreign exchange for settlement of “current account transactions”, including payment of dividends, without the approval of the SAFE. Our China-based subsidiaries may also retain foreign exchange in its current account (subject to a ceiling approved by the SAFE) to satisfy foreign exchange liabilities or to pay dividends. However, the relevant PRC governmental authorities may limit or eliminate our ability to purchase and retain foreign currencies in the future. Since a significant amount of our future revenues will be in the form of RMB, the existing and any future restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize revenue generated in RMB to fund our business activities outside China, if any, or expenditures denominated in foreign currencies. Foreign exchange transactions under the capital account are still subject to limitations and require approvals from the SAFE. This could affect our China-based subsidiaries’ ability to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing, including by means of loans or capital contributions from us. We may suffer currency exchange losses if the RMB depreciates relative to the U.S. Dollar. Our reporting currency is the U.S. Dollar. However, substantially all of our revenues are denominated in RMB. In July 2005, China reformed its exchange rate regime by establishing a managed floating exchange rate regime based on market supply and demand with reference to a basket of currencies. The RMB is no longer pegged to the U.S. dollar and the exchange rate will have some flexibility. Hence, considering the floating exchange rate regime, if the RMB depreciates relative to the U.S. Dollar, our revenues as expressed in our U.S. Dollar financial statements will decline in value. On May 19, 2007, the PBOC announced a policy to expand the maximum daily floating range of RMB trading prices against the U.S. dollar in the inter-bank spot foreign exchange market from 0.3% to 0.5%. While the international reactions to the RMB revaluation and widening of the RMB’s daily trading band have generally been positive, with the increased floating range of the RMB’s value against foreign currencies, the RMB may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar or other foreign currencies in the long term, depending on the fluctuation of the basket of currencies against which it is currently valued. On June 19, 2010, the PBOC announced that it has decided to proceed further with the reform of the RMB exchange rate regime to enhance the flexibility of the RMB exchange rate and that emphasis would be placed on reflecting market supply and demand with reference to a basket of currencies. While so indicating its intention to make the RMB’s exchange rate more flexible, the PBOC ruled out any sharp fluctuations in the currency or a one-off adjustment. On April 16, 2012, the PBOC enlarged the floating band of RMB’s trading prices against the U.S. dollar in the inter-bank spot foreign exchange market from 0.5% to 1% around the middle rate released by the China Foreign Exchange Trade System each day. In February 2013, the center point of the currency’s official trading band hit 6.2804, representing appreciation of more than 8.2% since June 19, 2010. In addition, there are very limited hedging transactions available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure, if at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert RMB into U.S. Dollars. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock has been and will likely continue to be volatile. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, which may make it difficult for stockholders to sell shares of our common stock when desired or at attractive prices. The market price of our common stock has been volatile and is likely to continue to be so. The initial public offering price of our common stock in July 2000 was $13.00 per share. The trading price of our common stock subsequently dropped to a low of $0.52 per share on April 9, 2001. During 2012, the trading price of our common stock ranged from a low of $33.75 per share to a high of $65.42 per share. On February 25, 2013, the closing price of our common stock was $45.28 per share. 56 Table of Contents In addition, the NASDAQ Global Select Market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for the securities of technology companies, and particularly Internet-related companies. The price for our common stock may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new products and media properties by us or our competitors, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us, and news reports relating to trends in our markets or general economic conditions. Additionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, all of whom have been granted share options or other stock awards. We are controlled by a small group of our existing stockholders, whose interests may differ from other stockholders. Dr. Charles Zhang beneficially owns approximately 20% of the outstanding shares of our common stock and is our largest stockholder. Our Chief Executive Officer, together with our other executive officers and members of our Board of Directors, beneficially own approximately 22% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Accordingly these stockholders acting together will have significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matters submitted to the stockholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations, the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. They will also have significant influence in preventing or causing a change in control. In addition, without the consent of these stockholders, we may be prevented from entering into transactions that could be beneficial to us. The interests of these stockholders may differ from the interests of the other stockholders. Anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law and our certificate of incorporation could delay or deter a change in control. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, as well as various provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, may make it more difficult to acquire our company or effect a change in control of our company, even if an acquisition or change in control would be in the interest of our stockholders or if an acquisition or change in control would provide our stockholders with a premium for their shares over then current market prices. For example, our certificate of incorporation provides for the division of our Board of Directors into two classes with staggered two-year terms and provides that stockholders have no right to take action by written consent and may not call special meetings of stockholders, each of which may make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our board in connection with, or obtain any necessary stockholder approval for, a proposed acquisition or change in control. The power of our Board of Directors to designate and issue shares of preferred stock could have an adverse effect on holders of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to designate and issue one or more series of preferred stock, having rights and preferences as the board may determine, and any such designations and issuances could have an adverse effect on the rights of holders of common stock. Registered public accounting firms in China, including our independent registered public accounting firm, are not inspected by the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, which deprives us and our investors of the benefits of such inspection. Auditors of companies whose shares are registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and traded publicly in the United States, including our independent registered public accounting firm, must be registered with the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“the “PCAOB”) and are required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess their compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards applicable to auditors. Our independent registered public accounting firm is located in, and organized under the laws of, the PRC, which is a jurisdiction where the PCAOB, notwithstanding the requirements of U.S. law, is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the Chinese authorities, which approval has not been granted for auditors such as our independent registered public accounting firm. This lack of PCAOB inspections in China prevents the PCAOB from fully evaluating audits and quality control procedures of our independent registered public accounting firm. As a result, we and investors in our common stock are deprived of the benefits of such PCAOB inspections. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of auditors in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our independent registered public accounting firm’s audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors outside of China that are subject to PCAOB inspections, which could cause investors and potential investors in our stock to lose confidence in our audit procedures and reported financial information and the quality of our financial statements. 57 Table of Contents Proceedings instituted recently by the SEC against five PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, may ultimately result in our financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In December 2012, the SEC instituted proceedings under Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the SEC’s Rules of Practice against five PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, alleging that these firms had violated U.S. securities laws and the SEC’s rules and regulations thereunder by failing to provide to the SEC the firms’ work papers related to their audits of certain PRC-based companies that are publicly traded in the United States. Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) grants to the SEC the authority to deny to any person, temporarily or permanently, the ability to practice before the SEC who is found by the SEC, after notice and opportunity for a hearing, to have willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of, any such laws or rules and regulations. While we cannot predict the outcome of the SEC’s proceedings, if our independent registered public accounting firm were denied, temporarily or permanently, the ability to practice before the SEC, our financial statements could be determined to not be in compliance with the requirements for financial statements of public companies with a class of securities registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. Such a determination could ultimately lead to the SEC’s revocation of the registration of our shares of common stock under the Exchange Act, which would cause the immediate delisting of our shares of common stock from the NASDAQ Global Select Market, and the effective termination of the trading market for our shares in the United States, which would be likely to have a significant adverse effect on the value of our shares of common stock. In addition, because the issues raised in the SEC proceedings would be likely to extend to all independent public accounting firms in the PRC, it may not be possible for us to attempt to address this issue by changing our independent registered public accounting firm. Risks Related to Our Financing Activities Changyou’s status as a public company could have an adverse impact on Sohu. Changyou’s American depositary shares, or ADSs, are listed and traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. As a separate publicly-listed company, Changyou may have interests that differ from, or may even be contrary to, those of Sohu, and we may have disagreements on certain matters. Our business might be adversely affected by any such disagreements. Changyou’s status as a publicly-listed company may have adverse U.S. tax consequences for us. As the Sohu Group has two listed companies, Sohu.com Inc. and Changyou.com Limited, which are regarded as separate legal entities for U.S. tax purposes, certain transactions between these two companies, as well as between their subsidiaries and VIEs, might expose Sohu.com Inc. to U.S. corporate income tax at a rate of 34%. Moreover, certain types of transactions by Changyou and its subsidiaries and VIEs—investing in U.S. properties, for example—might expose Sohu.com Inc. to the risk that the transactions will be subject to U.S. tax. If Changyou pays dividends, Sohu.com Inc., as one of the shareholders of Changyou, might be subject to U.S. corporate income tax at a rate of 34% for the dividends received. Under certain circumstances, when Sohu sells Changyou ADSs originally held by Sohu at a price higher than its U.S. tax basis, a portion of the proceeds will be subject to U.S. corporate income tax at a rate of 34%. Sogou’s equity financing could have an adverse effect on Sohu. Sogou, one of our subsidiaries, completed a $48 million equity financing on October 22, 2010. Our interest in Sogou was significantly diluted by the equity financing, with a corresponding reduction in our income from the Sogou business. Furthermore, as Sogou is no longer a wholly-owned subsidiary of us, it is possible that our and Sogou’s interests could diverge in the future as we may need to consider the interests of other shareholders of Sogou. If Sogou’s interests differ from, or are contrary to, our interests, our business operations may be adversely affected. In addition, if our search business does not break even or achieve profitability before the funds raised in Sogou’s recent financing have been exhausted or cannot meet Sogou’s significant needs for capital expenditures and we are unable to raise additional capital from our existing Sogou investors or different investors, we could be forced to suspend the operation of our search business and, even if we were able to raise additional capital our interest in Sogou would be further diluted. Moreover, since Sohu no longer holds 100% of Sogou, certain transactions between Sohu and Sogou, as well as between their subsidiaries and VIEs, might expose Sohu.com Inc. to 34% U.S. corporate income tax. Moreover, certain transactions entered into by Sogou and its subsidiaries and VIEs, such as investing in U.S. properties, might expose Sohu.com Inc. to the risk that these will be treated as transactions subject to U.S. tax. If Sogou were to pay a dividend to its shareholders, Sohu, as one of the shareholders of Sogou, could be subject to U.S. corporate income tax at 34% on the portion of the dividend it received. Risks Related to Changyou.com Limited The following risk factors are adapted from risk factors that are included in Changyou’s annual report on Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2012. 58 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Changyou’s Business and Industry Changyou’s limited operating history makes evaluating its business and prospects difficult. Changyou was incorporated on August 6, 2007 in the Cayman Islands as an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Sohu.com Inc. We transferred all of our MMOG business to Changyou in December 2007. Changyou acquired a majority interest in its Web games subsidiary 7Road in May 2011, Changyou acquired the 17173 Business from us in December 2011 and Changyou acquired the entities operating its cinema advertising business in January 2011. Changyou’s limited operating history in the each of these areas may not provide a meaningful basis for you to evaluate its business and prospects. Its business strategy has not been proven over a long period of time and we cannot be certain that Changyou will be able to successfully expand its MMOG business, its Web game business, the 17173 Business or its cinema advertising business. You should also consider additional risks and uncertainties that may be experienced by early stage companies operating in a rapidly developing and evolving industry. Some of these risks and uncertainties relate to Changyou’s ability to: • develop license or operate new MMOGs and Web, social and mobile games that are appealing to game players and meet its expected timetable for launches of new games; • raise its brand recognition and game player loyalty; • maintain and strengthen the 17173 Business and the leading position of the 17173.com Website among game information portals in China; • successfully adapt to evolving business models, industry trends and market environment by developing and investing in new business strategies, products, services and technologies, including new games other than MMOGs and Web games, such as social games and mobile games; and • maintain or expand its marketing efforts to attract more game players to its games and to the game information portal of the 17173 Business in an increasingly competitive business environment. If Changyou does not adapt its business to address these risks and uncertainties, Changyou’s ability to continue its success to date or to expand its business in the future may be impeded. Changyou’s business may not succeed in a highly competitive market. Competition in the online game market in China is becoming increasingly intense. There are a number of publicly-traded companies focusing on the MMOG and /or Web games markets in China with shares listed on NASDAQ, the New York Stock Exchange, the Hong Kong Stock Exchange and the Shenzhen Stock Exchange, including Tencent Holdings Limited, NetEase.com, Inc., Shanda Games Limited, Perfect World Co., Ltd., Giant Interactive Group Inc., NetDragon Websoft Inc., Kingsoft Corporation Limited, Taomee Holdings Limited, Shenzhen ZQGame Co. and YY Inc. In addition, there are many venture-backed private companies focusing on online game development, further intensifying the competition. Recently, many of Changyou’s competitors have been aggressively hiring talent for game development, increasing spending on marketing for games, bidding for licenses of games and penetrating into the Web, social and mobile game markets. Increased competition in Changyou’s current and intended markets may make it difficult for Changyou to retain its existing employees and attract new employees, and to sustain its growth rate. Furthermore, Changyou also faces intense competition for cost-effective marketing resources for its games, such as game-related Websites, which could drive up its marketing costs and decrease the effectiveness of its marketing campaigns. The 17173 Business, which derives revenue primarily from Changyou’s providing advertising services to advertisers on the 17173.com Website, faces intense competition for advertising business targeting online game players, which can be expected to increase significantly in the future. Changyou competes with other game information portals, such as duowan.com, operated by YY Inc., and game.qq.com, operated by Tencent Holdings Ltd., and other Internet portals which have, or may over time be able to build, competitive advantages over Changyou in terms of: • greater brand recognition among game players and advertising clients; • larger user and customer bases; • more extensive and well developed marketing and sales networks; and • substantially greater financial and technical resources. If Changyou is unable to sustain and enhance its brand recognition, provide quality products and services and meet other difficult technological and business challenges, then its users and advertising clients may become dissatisfied and move to a competitor’s portal for products and services, Changyou’s user base may decrease and its ability to generate advertising revenues on our 17173.com Website may decline as a result. 59 Table of Contents In order to compete effectively in the PRC, as well as in the worldwide market, Changyou must continue to spend significant resources in research and development, including through acquisitions, to enhance its technology and its existing games, advertising and other services, and introduce new game products and services, including games other than MMOGs and Web games, such as social and mobile games, in order for Changyou to adapt to industry trends and shifting demands of game players and advertising clients and to remain competitive. If Changyou’s products and services are not responsive to the needs of its game players and advertisers, are not appropriately timed with market opportunities, or are not effectively brought to market, or if Changyou’s competitors are more successful than Changyou is in developing compelling products or in attracting and retaining game players and advertisers, Changyou may not be able to recoup such expenditures. There are uncertainties regarding the future growth of the online game industry in China. The online game industry, from which Changyou derives substantially all of its revenues, is a relatively new and evolving industry. The growth of the online game industry and the level of demand and market acceptance of Changyou’s games are subject to a high degree of uncertainty. Changyou’s future operating results will depend on numerous factors affecting the online game industry, many of which are beyond its control, including: • the growth of personal computer, Internet and broadband users and penetration in China and other markets in which Changyou offers its games, and the rate of any such growth; • whether the online game industry, particularly in China and the rest of the Asia-Pacific region, continues to grow and the rate of any such growth; • general economic conditions in China, particularly economic conditions adversely affecting discretionary consumer spending, such as the slowdown in China’s economic growth that occurred between the first quarter of 2010 and the third quarter of 2012; • the availability and popularity of other forms of entertainment, particularly games of console systems, which are already popular in developed countries and may gain popularity in China; and • changes in consumer demographics and public tastes and preferences. There is no assurance that online games, and in particular MMOGs and Web games, will continue to be popular in China or elsewhere. A decline in the popularity of online games in general, or the MMOGs and Web games that Changyou operates, would adversely affect Changyou’s business and prospects. Changyou currently depends on TLBB for a majority of its revenues and on DDTank and Wartune for a significant portion of its revenues. Any decrease in the popularity of these games or interruption in their operation would adversely affect the operating results of Changyou. Changyou currently relies on its MMOG TLBB for a majority of its revenues and on its Web games DDTank and Wartune, for a significant portion of its revenues. Changyou launched TLBB in May 2007and 7Road launched DDTank and Wartune in March 2009 and December 2011, respectively. We cannot guarantee how long TLBB, DDTank and Wartune will continue to sustain their current levels of popularity. To prolong TLBB’s and DDTank’s lifespans, and to continue the initial success of Wartune, Changyou needs to continually improve and update them on a timely basis with new features that appeal to existing game players and attract new game players, and to market these new features. Despite its efforts to improve TLBB, DDTank and Wartune, the game players may nevertheless lose interest in these games over time. See “Risks Relating to Changyou’s Business and Industry—Changyou may not be successful in operating and improving its games to satisfy the changing demands of game players.” If Changyou fails to improve and update these games on a timely basis, or if its competitors introduce more popular games catering to its game player base, which, in the case of TLBB, could include games adapted from other novels written by Louis Cha, these games may lose their popularity, which could cause Changyou’s revenues to decrease. Furthermore, there could be interruptions in the operation of TLBB, DDTank or Wartune due to unexpected server interruptions, network failures or other factors that could harm Changyou’s reputation and prevent or deter game players from making purchases of virtual items, which could result in decreases in Changyou’s revenues. Changyou does not maintain insurance policies covering losses relating to its technology infrastructure and Changyou does not have business interruption insurance. 60 Table of Contents Changyou is not likely to sustain its recent growth rate. Changyou’s revenues have grown significantly in a relatively short period of time. Primarily due to the commercial success of TLBB, Changyou’s revenues, as restated for 2010 to reflect its acquisition of the 17173 Business, grew from $354.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 to $484.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, and $623.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, with the increases in 2011 and 2012 also being affected by 7Road’s Web games. Changyou’s net income attributable to Changyou.com Limited grew from $194.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, to $245.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 and $282.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. Changyou is not likely to sustain similar rates of growth in revenues or net income in future periods due to a number of factors, including, among others, the greater difficulty of growing at sustained rates from a larger revenue base, the uncertain level of popularity of its future games, the potential need to expend greater amounts in order to develop or acquire new games, technologies, assets and businesses, and uncertainty as to its ability to integrate such newly acquired games, technologies, assets and businesses. In particular, we expect Changyou to experience increases in its costs and expenses as it expands its business domestically and internationally and increase its investment in MMOGs as well as Web, social and mobile games in order to adapt to industry trends and an evolving market environment. Accordingly, you should not rely on the results of any prior period as an indication of Changyou’s future financial and operating performance. Changyou’s business could suffer if it does not successfully manage its current and future growth. Changyou has experienced a period of rapid growth and expansion that has placed, and will continue to place, strain on its management personnel, systems and resources. To accommodate the growth, Changyou anticipates that it will need to implement a variety of new and upgraded operational and financial systems, including online payment systems, procedures and controls, improvement of accounting and other internal management systems and security systems related to the foregoing, all of which require substantial management efforts and financial resources. Changyou will also need to continue to expand, train, manage and motivate its workforce, and manage its relationships with its distributors and joint operators, third-party service providers and game player base. All of these endeavors will require substantial management effort and skills and the incurrence of additional expenditures. Changyou may not be able to efficiently or effectively implement its growth strategies and manage the growth of its operations, and any failure to do so may limit its future growth and hamper its business strategy. Recent and potential future acquisitions and/or strategic alliances may have an adverse effect on Changyou’s ability to manage its business. Changyou has made acquisitions of, and may potentially acquire in the future, technologies, businesses or assets that are complementary to its business and/or enter into strategic alliances in order to leverage its position in the Chinese online game market and expand its business domestically and internationally. Such acquisitions or strategic alliances may expose Changyou to potential risks, including risks associated with the integration of new technologies, businesses and personnel, unforeseen or hidden liabilities, the diversion of management attention and resources from its existing business, and the inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset the costs and expenses of acquisitions or strategic alliances. Any difficulties encountered in the acquisition and strategic alliance process may have an adverse effect on Changyou’s ability to manage its business. In addition, acquired businesses may not perform to Changyou’s expectations for various reasons, including the loss of key personnel or key clients, and its strategic focus may change. As a result, Changyou may not realize the benefits it anticipated. If Changyou fails to integrate acquired technologies, businesses and assets or realize the expected benefits, it may not receive a return on its investment and its transaction costs for such acquisitions. Any negative development in Sohu’s market position or brand recognition may have an adverse effect on Changyou’s marketing efforts and the popularity of its games. Changyou is a majority owned subsidiary of Sohu and expect to continue to be part of the Sohu Group, as we are expected to remain the controlling shareholder of Changyou. Changyou has benefited, and we expect it to continue to benefit, from us in marketing its games and the 17173 Business. For example, Changyou has benefited from our large user base by marketing and advertising across our domains and using our single-user ID system, which provides our registered users easy access to Changyou’s games. Changyou and we have entered into a services agreement and an online links and advertising agreement, pursuant to which we provide links and advertising space on our Websites and related technical support to Changyou in connection with Changyou’s operation and promotion of the 17173 Business. Changyou also benefits from our strong brand recognition in China, which we believe has provided Changyou credibility and a broad marketing reach. If we lose our market position, the effectiveness of Changyou’s marketing efforts through its association with us could be adversely affected. In addition, any negative publicity associated with Sohu.com or its affiliated Websites will likely have an adverse impact on the effectiveness of Changyou’s marketing on those sites as well as its reputation and its brand. 61 Table of Contents Changyou is dependent upon its existing management, its key development personnel and its qualified technical personnel, and its business may be severely disrupted if Changyou lose their services. Changyou’s future success depends substantially on the continued services of its executive officers and its key development personnel, such as its Chief Executive Officer Tao Wang, its President Dewen Chen, its Chief Financial Officer Alex Ho, its Chief Operating Officer Xiaojian Hong and its Chief Information Officer Wendy Pan. If one or more of its executive officers or key development personnel were unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, Changyou might not be able to replace them easily or at all. In addition, if any of Changyou’s executive officers or key employees joins a competitor or forms a competing company, it may lose know-how, key professionals, staff members and suppliers. These executive officers and key employees could develop and operate games that could compete with and take game players away from its existing and future games. Although each of its executive officers and key personnel has entered into an employment agreement with Changyou with non-competition provisions, these non-competition provisions may not be enforceable in China. Game players’ spending on Changyou’s games may be adversely affected by continuing slower growth in the Chinese economy and adverse conditions in the global economy. Changyou relies on the spending of its game players for its revenues, which in turn depends on the players’ level of disposable income, perceived future earnings capabilities and willingness to spend. The real estate market in the PRC and the level of exports from the PRC have both experienced significant declines recently and, according to the National Bureau of Statistics of China, the growth rate of China’s gross domestic product, compared to that of the previous year, slowed from 10.3% in 2010 to 9.2% in 2011 and 7.5% in 2012. Such growth may continue to slow in the future, which could in turn result in a reduction in spending by its game players. In addition, the global economy recently experienced significant instability, with growth in the United States slowing and the European Community facing disruptions as a result of crises in the economies of Greece and Spain, among other countries. It is unclear how long such instability will continue, whether it will increase, whether it will lead to a renewed worldwide economic downturn such as the one that began in 2008, and how much adverse impact such instability or any such downturn might have on the economies of China and other jurisdictions where Changyou operate its games. Any such instability or adverse impact in China or in overseas markets could cause its game players to reduce their spending on Changyou’s games in China or overseas and reduce its revenues. Changyou may not be successful in operating and improving its games to satisfy the changing demands of game players. Changyou depends on purchases and continual consumption of virtual items by its game players to generate revenues, which in turn depend on the continued attractiveness of its games to the game players and their satisfactory game-playing experience. Various issues could arise that would cause Changyou’s games to be less attractive to its game players or could limit the continued attractiveness of its games. For example: • Changyou may fail to provide game updates, expansion packs and other enhancements in a timely manner due to technologies, resources or other factors; • Changyou’s game updates, expansion packs and new versions may contain program errors, and their installation may create other unforeseen issues that adversely affect the game-playing experience; • Changyou may fail to timely respond and /or resolve complaints from its game players; • Changyou may fail to eliminate computer “bots,” which can disrupt its games’ smooth operation and reduce the attractiveness of our games; and • Changyou’s game updates, expansion packs and other enhancements may change rules or other aspects of its games that its game players do not welcome, resulting in a reduction in the peak concurrent users, active paying accounts, average concurrent users, and/or revenues per active paying account of its MMOGs or a reduction in the active accounts, active charging accounts, peak concurrent users, average concurrent users and/or revenues per active charging account of its Web games. The failure to address the above-mentioned issues could adversely affect the game-playing experience of Changyou’s game players, damage the reputation of its games, shorten the lifespans of its games, and result in the loss of game players and a decrease in its revenues. Furthermore, for the games licensed from third parties, Changyou may not have access to the game source codes during the initial period of the license or at all. Without the source codes, Changyou has to rely on the licensors to provide updates and enhancements during the initial period, giving Changyou less control over the quality and timeliness of updates and enhancements. If the game players are not satisfied with the level of services they receive, they may choose to not play the games, leading to a decrease in Changyou’s revenues. 62 Table of Contents Changyou may fail to launch new games according to its timetable, and its new games may not be commercially successful, or may attract game players away from its existing games. Changyou must launch new games that can generate additional revenue and diversify its revenue sources in order to remain competitive. Changyou will not generate any meaningful revenue from a pipeline game until it is commercially launched after open beta testing, and we cannot assure you that Changyou will be able to meet its timetable for new game launches or that its new games will be successful. A number of factors, including technical difficulties, lack of sufficient game development personnel and other resources, failure to obtain or delays in obtaining relevant governmental authorities’ approvals and adverse developments in its relationships with the licensors or third-party operators of its new games could result in delayed launching of Changyou’s new games. In addition, we cannot assure you that Changyou’s new games will be as well received in the market as TLBB, DDTank and Wartune have been, and you should not view its historical game revenues, the success of TLBB, DDTank and the initial market acceptance of Wartune as indications of the long-term commercial success of Wartune or any of its other new or future games. There are many factors that may adversely affect the popularity of Changyou’s new games. For example, Changyou may fail to anticipate and adapt to future technical trends, new business models and changed game player preferences and requirements, fail to effectively plan and organize marketing and promotion activities, or fail to differentiate its new games from its existing games. If the new games Changyou introduces are not commercially successful, Changyou may not be able to generate sufficient revenues from new games to sustain or grow its results of operations or to recover its product development costs and sales and marketing expenses, which can be significant. In addition, Changyou’s new games may attract game players away from its existing games. For example, with Changyou’s increasingly diversified game portfolio, we cannot assure you that Changyou’s TLBB, DDTank and Wartune game players will not be attracted to play other newly launched games instead of TLBB, DDTank and Wartune. If this occurs, it will decrease Changyou’s existing games’ player bases, which could in turn make these games less attractive to other game players, resulting in decreased revenues from its existing games. Game players who switch from playing Changyou’s existing games to its new games may also spend less money to purchase virtual items in its new games than they would have spent if they had continued playing its existing games, resulting in an adverse effect on overall revenues of Changyou. Changyou’s MMOGs and Web games are currently accessed primarily through personal computers. As devices other than personal computers are increasingly used to access the Internet, we believe that Changyou must develop games for such devices if it is to maintain or increase its revenues, and it may not be successful in doing so. Devices other than personal computers, such as mobile phones and tablets, are used increasingly in China and in overseas markets to access the Internet. We believe that, for Changyou’s business to be successful, it will need to develop versions of its existing games, its pipeline games and any future games that work well with such devices. The games that Changyou develops for such devices may not function as smoothly as its existing games, and may not be attractive to game players in other ways. In addition, manufacturers of such devices may establish restrictive conditions for developers of applications to be used on such devices, and as a result its games may not work well, or at all, on such devices. As new devices are released or updated, Changyou may encounter problems in developing versions of its games for use on such devices and Changyou may need to devote significant resources to the creation, support, and maintenance of games for such devices. If Changyou is unable to successfully expand the types of devices on which its existing and future games are available, or if the versions of its games that Changyou creates for such devices do not function well or are not attractive to game players, its revenues may fail to grow and may decline. Changyou relies on third-party operators to jointly operate most of its Web games with it. Changyou’s majority-owned subsidiary 7Road, which is the developer and operator of Changyou’s most successful Web games to date, largely relies on third-party joint operators to attract users to play its games and for most of the marketing of its games, and operations through third-party joint operators account for a substantial majority of 7Road’s revenues. If third-party joint operators of 7Road’s games experience network disruptions, cease to offer 7Road’s games over their platforms, fail to effectively promote 7Road’s games on their platforms or attract game players, or terminate 7Road’s joint operation agreements in advance of their expiration dates during any particular period, 7Road’s revenues, and hence Changyou’s consolidated revenues, for that period will be adversely affected and 7Road’s and Changyou’s reputation could be harmed. 63 Table of Contents Changyou generates substantially all of its game revenues under the item-based revenue model, which has a short history of commercial application and presents risks related to consumer preferences and regulatory restrictions. Substantially all of Changyou’s games, including MMOGs and Web games, are operated under the item-based revenue model. Under this revenue model, Changyou’s game players are able to play the games for free if they so choose, but are charged for the purchase of virtual items in the games. Changyou currently expects that substantially all of its online game revenues, including revenues from games currently in its pipeline, will continue to be generated under the item-based revenue model. The item-based revenue model requires Changyou to design games that not only attract game players to spend more time playing, but also encourage them to purchase virtual items. The sale of virtual items requires Changyou to track closely consumer tastes and preferences, especially as to in-game consumption patterns. If Changyou fails to design and price virtual items so as to incentivize game players to purchase them, it may not be able to effectively translate its game player base and their playing time into revenues. The item-based revenue model does not have a long history of proven commercial application. In addition, the item-based revenue model may cause additional concerns with PRC regulators who have been implementing regulations designed to reduce the amount of time that Chinese youths spend on online games and intended to limit the total amount of virtual currency issued by online game operators and the amount purchased by individual game players. A revenue model that does not charge for time played may be viewed by the PRC regulators as inconsistent with these goals. The item-based revenue model may not continue to be commercially successful and in the future Changyou may need to change its revenue model to a time-based or other revenue model. Any change in revenue model could result in disruption of Changyou’s game operations, a decrease in the number of its game players and a decline in its revenues. Changyou relies on recorded data for game revenue recognition and tracking of game players’ consumption patterns of virtual items. If Changyou’s data systems fail to operate effectively, such failure will not only affect the completeness and accuracy of its revenue recognition, but also its ability to design and improve virtual items that appeal to game players. Changyou’s game operations revenues are generated through the sale of its prepaid game cards or online direct sale of game points, and Changyou’s recognition of those revenues depends on such factors as whether the virtual items purchased by game players are considered consumable or perpetual and, in the case of 7Road’s joint operation arrangements with third-party joint operators, whether the games are hosted on 7Road’s servers or the third parties’ servers. Changyou relies on its data systems to record and monitor the purchase and consumption of virtual items by its game players and the types of virtual items purchased. If its data systems fail to accurately record the purchase and consumption information of the virtual items, Changyou may not be able to accurately recognize its revenues. In addition, various factors affect the estimated lives of perpetual virtual items, such as the average period that game players typically play its games and other game player behavior patterns, the acceptance and popularity of expansion packs, promotional events launched and market conditions, and Changyou relies on its billing systems to capture such historical game player behavior patterns and other information. If such information is not accurately recorded, or if Changyou does not have sufficient information due to the short operating history of any of its games, Changyou will not be able to accurately estimate the lives of, or the estimated average period the game players play its games with respect to, the perpetual virtual items, which will also affect its ability to accurately recognize its revenues from such perpetual virtual items. If the data systems of Changyou were damaged by system failure, network interruption, or virus infection, or attacked by a hacker, the integrity of data would be compromised, which could adversely affect Changyou’s revenue recognition and the completeness and accuracy of its recognized revenues. In addition, Changyou relies on its data systems to record game player purchase and consumption patterns, based on which Changyou improves its existing virtual items and designs new virtual items. For example, Changyou intends to increase development efforts on the number and variety of virtual items that its game players like to purchase, and it may also adjust prices accordingly. If its data systems fail to record data accurately, Changyou’s ability to improve existing virtual items or design new virtual items that are appealing to its game players may be adversely affected, which could in turn adversely affect its revenues. The successful operation of Changyou’s business and implementation of its growth strategies, including its ability to accommodate additional game players and advertising clients in the future, depend upon the performance and reliability of the Internet infrastructure and fixed telecommunications networks in China. Almost all access to the Internet in China is maintained through state-owned telecommunications operators under the administrative control and regulatory supervision of the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, or MIIT. Changyou relies on this infrastructure to provide data communications capacity primarily through local telecommunications lines. Although the PRC government has announced plans to develop the national information infrastructure, this infrastructure may not be developed as planned or at all. In addition, Changyou will have no access to alternative networks and services, on a timely basis if at all, in the event of any infrastructure disruption or failure. The Internet infrastructure in China may not support the demands necessary for continued growth in Internet usage. 64 Table of Contents Most of Changyou’s revenues generated by the 17173 Business are from online advertising. The online advertising market includes many uncertainties, which could cause Changyou’s revenues from the 17173 Business to fail to grow or to decline. The17173 Business, which derives revenue primarily from providing advertising services on the 17173.com Website, had online advertising revenues of $42.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, representing 6.8% of Changyou’s total revenues for the year. Changyou’s ability to maintain or grow advertising revenues from the 17173 Business may be adversely affected by any of the following risk factors: • The online advertising market is new and rapidly evolving, particularly in China. As a result, many of our current and potential advertising clients have limited experience using the Internet for advertising purposes and historically have not devoted a significant portion of their advertising budgets to Internet-based advertising; • Changes in government policy could restrict or curtail Changyou’s online advertising services; • Advertising clients may adopt new methods and strategies other than online advertising to promote their brands, which would have an adverse impact on the advertising revenue of Changyou; and • The acceptance of the Internet as a medium for advertising depends on the development of a measurement standard. No standards for the measurement of the effectiveness of online advertising have been widely accepted. Industry-wide standards may not develop sufficiently to support the Internet as an effective advertising medium. If these standards do not develop, advertisers may choose not to advertise on the Internet in general, or through Changyou’s Websites. In addition, Changyou’s ability to generate and maintain significant online advertising revenues will also depend upon: • the development of a large base of users possessing demographic characteristics attractive to advertising clients; • the acceptance of online advertisements as an effective method of business marketing; • the effectiveness of our advertising delivery, tracking and reporting systems; and • the extent of resistance from existing or potential customers to online advertising prices. The expansion of Internet advertisement blocking software may result in a decrease in advertising revenues. The development of Web software that blocks Internet advertisements before they appear on a user’s screen may hinder the growth of online advertising. The expansion of advertisement blocking on the Internet may decrease Changyou’s revenues from the 17173 Business, because, when an advertisement is blocked, it is not downloaded from the server, which means that it will not be tracked as a delivered advertisement. In addition, advertisers may choose not to advertise on the Internet or on Changyou’s 17173.com Website because of the use by third parties of Internet advertisement blocking software. Changyou’s cinema advertising business has generated losses since Changyou acquired it and it may not be able to maintain or expand the revenues that it receives from cinema advertising services. Changyou’s cinema advertising business, which generates revenues through contracts that it enters into with advertisers to place their advertisements in pre-film advertising slots in movie theatres, has not been profitable since Changyou acquired it in January 2011. Changyou receives the cinema advertising rights for such pre-film advertising slots under contracts with various theatres and film production companies. We cannot assure you that Changyou will be able to develop, maintain or expand the types of relationships with movie theatres and film production companies that will permit it to receive or preserve its existing rights or obtain any additional rights to pre-movie advertisement slots. Any failure to develop, maintain or expand such relationships could prevent Changyou from increasing its cinema advertising revenues and prevent the business from becoming profitable and also could result in a decrease in its cinema advertising revenues. Changyou incurs additional costs and face significant risks when it operates, licenses, or jointly operates with third-party joint operators, its games outside of China and seeks to expand its operations to select markets. If Changyou fails to manage these risks, its growth and business prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Changyou currently licenses TLBB and DMD to, and jointly operates DDTank and Wartune with third-party operators in regions outside of China, including Taiwan, Hong Kong, Vietnam and Malaysia. Changyou plans to continue to license TLBB and DMD, and jointly operate DDTank and Wartune, and other future games in these and other overseas markets. Changyou has expanded its direct MMOG operations to select markets, such as the United States, Malaysia and Korea, and expects to expand its direct game operations (through local wholly-owned subsidiaries) to other overseas markets. Identifying appropriate overseas markets, negotiating with potential third-party licensees or joint operators and managing Changyou’s relationships with its licensees and joint operators all require substantial management effort and skills and the incurrence of significant expenses. Licensing games and operating them overseas directly or jointly with third-party joint operators also require translation of its games into the local languages of the overseas markets in which Changyou plans to license or operate, and may require customization as well, both of which require significant additional expense. There are additional risks associated with the licensing or direct or joint operation of the games overseas, including: • difficulties in identifying and maintaining good relationships with licensees or joint operators who are knowledgeable about, and can effectively distribute and operate the games in, overseas markets; 65 Table of Contents • difficulties and costs relating to compliance with the different legal requirements and commercial terms in the overseas markets in which Changyou licenses or directly or jointly operates its games, such as game export regulatory procedures, taxes and other restrictions and expenses; • difficulties in maintaining the reputation of Changyou and its games, when its games are operated by licensees or joint operators in overseas markets pursuant to their own standards; • changes in the political, regulatory or economic conditions in a foreign country or region, or public policies toward online games; • exposure to different regulatory systems governing the protection of intellectual property and the regulation of online games, the Internet and the export of technology; • difficulties in verifying revenues generated from the games by the licensees for purposes of determining royalties payable to Changyou; • inherent difficulties and delays in contract enforcement and collection of receivables through the use of foreign legal systems. • difficulties in protecting the intellectual property of Changyou; • difficulties in managing its overseas employees when Changyou operate its games directly overseas; • the risk that the regulatory authorities in foreign countries or administrative regions may impose withholding taxes, or place restrictions on repatriation of Changyou’s profits; and • fluctuations in currency exchange rates. If Changyou is unable to manage these risks effectively, its ability to license or operate its games overseas either directly or jointly with third-party joint operators may be impaired. Rapid technological changes may increase the game development costs of Changyou. The online game industry is evolving rapidly, so Changyou needs to anticipate new technologies and evaluate their possible market acceptance. In addition, government authorities or industry organizations may adopt new standards that apply to game development. Any new technologies and new standards may require increases in expenditures for MMOG or Web, social or mobile game development and operations, and Changyou will need to adapt its business to cope with the changes and support these new services to be successful. If Changyou falls behind in adopting new technologies or standards, its existing games may lose popularity, and its newly developed games may not be well received in the marketplace. The proliferation of “cheating” programs and scam offers that seek to exploit Changyou’s games and players harms the game-playing experience and may lead players to stop playing its games. Unrelated third parties have developed, and may continue to develop, “cheating” programs that enable players to exploit Changyou’s games, play them in an automated way or obtain unfair advantages over other players who play fairly. These programs harm the experience of players who play fairly and may disrupt the economics of Changyou’s games. In addition, unrelated third parties may attempt to scam its players with fake offers for virtual goods. Changyou needs to devote significant resources to discover, disable and prevent such programs and activities, and if Changyou is unable to do so quickly, its operations may be disrupted, its reputation may be damaged and players may stop playing its games. This may lead to lost revenue and increased costs for Changyou to develop technological measures to combat such programs and activities. Changyou’s business may be harmed if its games are not featured in a sufficient number of Internet cafés in China. A substantial number of game players access Changyou’s games through Internet cafés in China. Due to limited hardware capacity, Internet cafés generally feature a limited number of games on their computers. Changyou thus competes with a growing number of other online game operators to ensure that its games are featured on these computers. This competition is intensified by restrictions by the PRC Ministry of Culture, or MOC, on the establishment of new Internet cafés and on the total number of Internet cafés nationwide. It is necessary for Changyou to maintain good relationships with Internet café operators, require its distributors to maintain a sales presence in a large number of Internet cafés, and conduct periodical promotional activities in select Internet cafés and other general sales and marketing efforts to ensure that Changyou’s games are featured in a sufficient number of Internet cafés. If Changyou fails to maintain good relationships with Internet café operators, or if it and/or its distributors fail to successfully persuade Internet cafés to feature its games, its revenues may be adversely affected. 66 Table of Contents Changyou may fail to maintain a stable and efficient physical distribution network for its prepaid game cards. Online payment systems in China are in a developmental stage and are not as widely available to or accepted by consumers in China as they are in the United States. Changyou relies heavily on a physical distribution network composed of third-party distributors to cover a network of retail outlets across China for the sales of its prepaid game cards to its game players. As a result, Changyou’s revenues could be adversely affected by under-performance by its distributors, such as a failure to meet minimum sales or penetration targets or to establish an extensive retail network. Changyou generally signs one-year agreements with its distributors. Changyou may not continue to maintain favorable relationships with them. In addition, the distributors may violate the distribution agreements. Such violations may include, among other things, their: • failure to maintain minimum price levels for Changyou’s prepaid game cards in accordance with the distribution agreements; • failure to properly promote Changyou’s MMOGs in local Internet cafés and other important outlets, or cooperate with Changyou’s sales and marketing team’s efforts in their designated territories; and • selling Changyou’s prepaid game cards outside their designated territories. In the past, some of Changyou’s distributors have failed to carry out their obligations in accordance with Changyou’s distribution agreements with them, which resulted in its termination of Changyou’s distribution relationships with them. If Changyou decides to penalize, suspend or terminate its distributors for acting in violation of its distribution agreements, or if the distributors fail to address violations committed by any of their retail outlets in a timely manner, Changyou’s ability to effectively sell its prepaid game cards in any given territory could be negatively impacted, which would adversely affect its revenues. Changyou could be liable for breaches in the security of its online payment platforms and those of third parties with whom it transact business, and any such breaches could cause its customers to lose confidence in the integrity of the payment systems that Changyou uses. Currently, Changyou sells a substantial portion of its virtual prepaid game cards and game points to its game players through third-party online payment platforms. In these online transactions, secure transmission of confidential information, such as customers’ credit card numbers and expiration dates, personal information and billing addresses, over public networks is essential if Changyou is to maintain its consumers’ confidence in it. In addition, we expect that an increasing amount of Changyou’s sales will be conducted over the Internet as a result of the growing use of online payment systems. As a result, the risk of associated online crime will increase. The current security measures of Changyou and those of the third parties with whom Changyou transacts business may not be adequate. Changyou must be prepared to increase its security measures and efforts so that its game players have confidence in the reliability of the online payment systems that it uses, which will require Changyou to incur additional expense. Such increased security measures may still not make its online payment systems completely safe. In addition, Changyou does not have control over the security measures of its third-party online payment vendors. Breaches in the security of online payment systems that Changyou uses could expose it to litigation and liability for failing to secure confidential customer information, and could harm its reputation, ability to attract customers and ability to encourage customers to purchase virtual items. Changyou relies on advertising agencies to sell the online advertising services of the 17173 Business. If current trends of consolidation of advertising agencies in the Chinese market continue, the bargaining power of the large advertising agencies resulting from such consolidation may permit them to require that Changyou pay higher sales rebates, which would adversely affect Changyou’s gross margin. Most of the online advertising services of the 17173 Business are distributed by, and most of the online advertising revenues of the 17173 Business are derived from, advertising agencies. In 2012, for example, Changyou engaged four advertising agencies, which contributed approximately 90% of the online advertising revenues of the 17173 Business. In consideration for these agencies’ services, Changyou is required to pay certain percentages of revenues as sales rebates. If the online advertising market is consolidated and effectively controlled by a small number of large advertising agencies, such advertising agencies may be in a position to demand higher sales rebates based on increased bargaining power, which could negatively affect Changyou’s online advertising growth, as Changyou books its online advertising revenue net of its sales rebates to advertising agencies. As Changyou grows its business and expand into new types of games and platform, Changyou will need to hire a significant number of new employees. If Changyou is unable to attract a sufficient number of qualified new employees or retain its existing employees, its business prospects may be adversely affected. As Changyou grows its business and expand into social and mobile games, the game platform business and international markets, Changyou will need to increase the number of its employees, including senior-level executives, experienced project managers, game development personnel and game operation professionals. The number of its employees increased 33.9% between the end of 2011 and the end of 2012. Changyou’s industry in China is characterized by high demand and intense competition for talent, particularly for game developers and related technical personnel, and Changyou may not be able to attract a sufficient number of additional qualified new employees or retain sufficient existing employees to meet the growth of its business, which would adversely affect its growth strategy and its business prospects. 67 Table of Contents Changyou may be exposed to infringement or misappropriation claims by third parties, which, if determined adversely to it, could subject it to significant liabilities and other costs. The success of Changyou depends largely on its ability to use and develop its technology and know-how without infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties. We cannot assure you that third parties will not assert intellectual property claims against Changyou. Changyou is subject to additional risks if entities licensing to its intellectual property, including, for example, game source codes, do not have adequate rights in any such licensed materials. The validity and scope of claims relating to the intellectual property of game development and technology involve complex scientific, legal and factual questions and analyses and, therefore, tend to be uncertain. If third parties assert copyright or patent infringement or violation of other intellectual property rights against Changyou, it will have to defend itself in litigation or administrative proceedings, which can be both costly and time consuming and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of its technical and management personnel. An adverse determination or settlement in any such litigation or proceedings to which Changyou may become a party could subject Changyou to significant liability to third parties, or require it to seek licenses from third parties, pay ongoing royalties, or redesign its games or subject it to injunctions prohibiting the development and operation of its games. In addition, in the case of 7Road, Changyou’s potential exposure to litigation alleging that its games infringe the intellectual property of others may extend to potential claims against the third-party joint operators of 7Road’s games. 7Road typically agrees in its agreements with joint operators to indemnify the joint operators against claims of infringement relating to 7Road’s games. As a result, Changyou may have to defend 7Road’s joint operators with respect to any allegations against them with respect to infringement by 7Road’s games, which could be both costly and time consuming. Changyou may need to incur significant expenses to enforce its proprietary rights, and if it is unable to protect such rights, its competitive position and financial performance could be harmed. Changyou regards its intellectual property and proprietary rights as critical to its success. In particular, Changyou has spent a significant amount of time and resources in developing its current games and its pipeline games. Changyou’s ability to protect its proprietary rights in connection with its games is critical for their success and its overall financial performance. While Changyou has registered software in China for copyright protection and it has taken various measures to protect its source codes, such measures may not sufficient to protect its proprietary information and intellectual property. Intellectual property rights and confidentiality protection in China may not be as effective as they are in the United States and other developed countries. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology is difficult and expensive. In addition, while Changyou has registered some trademarks relating to its games in the PRC and other jurisdictions, and has applied for additional registrations of trademarks, in some instances it may not succeed in obtaining registration of trademarks that it has applied in different languages, such as English. We cannot assure you that these pending or future trademark applications will be approved. Any failure to register trademarks in any country or region may limit Changyou’s ability to protect its rights in such country or region under relevant trademark laws, and it may even need to change the name or the relevant trademark in certain cases, which may adversely affect its branding and marketing efforts. Despite Changyou’s efforts to protect its intellectual property, online game developers may copy its ideas and designs, and other third parties may infringe its intellectual property rights. For example, certain third parties have misappropriated the source codes of previous versions of TLBB and have set up unauthorized servers in China and elsewhere to operate TLBB to compete with Changyou. Although in response it has taken measures to enforce its intellectual property rights, such measures may not be successful in eliminating these unauthorized servers. The existence of unauthorized servers may attract game players away from Changyou’s games and may result in decreases in its revenues. Litigation relating to intellectual property rights may result in substantial costs to Changyou and diversion of resources and management attention away from Changyou’s business, and may not be successful. In addition, Changyou’s ideas and certain of its designs , if not fixed in a tangible form of expression or registered with the appropriate PRC authorities, may not be protected by patents or other intellectual property rights. As a result, Changyou may be limited in its ability to assert intellectual property rights against online game developers who independently develop ideas and designs that compete with Changyou. Changyou may not have exclusive rights to trademarks, designs and technologies that are crucial to its business. Changyou has applied for initial registrations in the PRC and overseas, and/or changes in registrations relating to transfers of its key trademarks in the PRC, including ChangYou.com, cyou.com, 7Road, TLBB, TL logos, Blade Online, DMD, DDTank, Wartune, Haishen and 17173 and the corresponding Chinese versions of the marks, so as to establish and protect its exclusive rights to these marks. Changyou has also applied for patents relating to the design of its games and to technology intended to enhance the functionalities of its games. Changyou has succeeded in registering the trademarks ChangYou.com, cyou.com, 7Road, TLBB, TL logos, DMD, DDTank, and 17173 in the PRC under certain classes. The applications for initial registration, and/or changes in registrations relating to transfers, of other marks and/or of some of these marks under other classes are still under examination by the Trademark Office of the State Administration for Industry & Commerce of the PRC, or the SAIC, and relevant authorities overseas. Changyou’s patent applications are still under examination by the State Intellectual Property Office of the PRC. Approvals of Changyou’s initial trademark applications, and/or of changes in registrations relating to such transfers, or of its patent applications, are subject to determinations by the Trademark Office of the SAIC, the State Intellectual Property Office of the PRC and relevant authorities overseas that there are no prior rights in the applicable territory. We cannot assure you that these applications will be approved. Any rejection of these applications could adversely affect Changyou’s rights to the affected marks, designs and technologies. In addition, even if these applications are approved, we cannot assure you that any registered trademark or issued patent will be sufficient in scope to provide adequate protection of Changyou’s rights. 68 Table of Contents Breaches in the security of Changyou’s server network could cause disruptions in its service, facilitate piracy of its intellectual property, or compromise confidential information of its game players. Changyou stores on its servers and transmits over the Internet considerable and continually increasing amounts of data, much of which is essential to the operation of its business or is highly confidential information concerning its business and its game players. In addition, the expansion of Changyou’s business to include Web, social and mobile games and its need to comply with PRC regulations requiring real-name registration of its game players are likely to cause the amount of personal data concerning its game players that is transmitted over its networks to increase over time. Any breaches of its network by hackers could cause severe disruptions in its service, allow piracy of the source code used in the operation of its games and allow pirated versions of its games to enter the marketplace, or result in the release of confidential personal or financial information of its game players, any of which could have an adverse impact on Changyou’s business, its revenues, and its reputation among game players. We expect that, in order to minimize the likelihood of such breaches as its business expands and the amount of confidential and sensitive data increases, Changyou will expend considerable resources to maintain and enhance the effectiveness of its security systems. Changyou may be subject to, and may expend significant resources in defending against, claims regarding the content and services it provides over its Websites. As Changyou’s services may be used to download and distribute information to others, there is a risk that claims may be made against it for defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement or based on the nature and content of such information. Furthermore, Changyou could be subject to claims related to the online activities of its users and incur significant costs in its defense. In the past, claims regarding the nature and content of information that was posted online by users have been made in the United States against companies that provide online services. Changyou could be exposed to liability for the selection of listings that may be accessible through its Websites or through content and materials that its users may post in classified, message boards, chat rooms or other interactive services. If any information provided through Changyou’s services contains errors, third parties may make claims against Changyou for losses incurred in reliance on the information. Changyou do not carry any liability insurance against of the foregoing risks. Changyou does not have business insurance coverage. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products, or offer them at a high price. As a result, Changyou does not have any business liability, loss of data or disruption insurance coverage for its operations in China or the operations of its joint operators in China and overseas. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster might result in Changyou’s incurring substantial costs and the diversion of its resources. The limited use of personal computers in China and the relatively high cost of Internet access in relation to per capita gross domestic product may limit the development of the Internet in China and impede Changyou’s growth. The penetration rate for personal computers in China is significantly lower than it is in the United States and other developed countries. Furthermore, the cost of Internet access in China is still relatively high as compared to other developed countries. The limited use of personal computers in China and the relatively high cost of Internet access may limit the growth of the business of Changyou. In addition, there may be increases in Internet access fees or telecommunication fees in China. If that happens, the number of Changyou’s game players may decrease or the growth of its game player base may be adversely impacted. Slow growth of, or a decrease in, the traffic on the 17173.com Website may also cause the advertising clients of Changyou to reduce their use of Changyou’s online advertising services, reducing its online advertising revenues. Changyou faces risks related to health epidemics and other natural disasters. Changyou’s business could be adversely affected by the effects of avian flu, SARS, H1N1 or other epidemics or outbreaks. China reported a number of cases of SARS in 2003, which resulted in the closure by the PRC government of many businesses to prevent the transmission of the disease. Similarly, there were many businesses in China that were affected by the outbreak of the H1N1 virus in 2009, and in recent years there have been reports of occurrences of avian flu in various parts of China, including a few confirmed human cases and deaths. Any prolonged recurrence of avian flu, SARS, H1N1 or other adverse public health developments in China may have an adverse effect on the business operations of Changyou. Adverse effects could include illness and loss of Changyou’s management and key employees, as well as temporary closure of its offices and related other businesses, such as server operations, upon which Changyou relies, and a decrease in the number of its game players. Such loss of management and key employees or closures would severely disrupt the business operations of Changyou. Changyou has not adopted any written preventive measures or contingency plans to combat any future outbreak of avian flu, SARS, H1N1 or any other epidemic. In addition, other major natural disasters may also adversely affect Changyou’s business by, for example, causing disruptions of the Internet network or otherwise affecting access to its games. 69 Table of Contents Substantially all of Changyou’s revenues are generated through Gamease, Shenzhen 7Road, Guanyou Gamespace, and Shanghai ICE, its VIEs, and it relies on payments made by Gamease, Shenzhen 7Road, Guanyou Gamespace, Shanghai ICE to AmazGame, 7Road Technology, Gamespace and ICE Information, Changyou’s subsidiaries, pursuant to contractual arrangements to transfer any such revenues to AmazGame, 7Road Technology, Gamespace and ICE Information. Any restriction on such payments and any increase in the amount of PRC taxes applicable to such payments may adversely affect Changyou’s business and its ability to pay dividends to its shareholders, including us. Changyou conducts substantially all of its operations through Gamease, Shenzhen 7Road, Guanyou Gamespace, and Shanghai ICE, its VIEs, which generate substantially all of its revenues. As Changyou’s VIEs are not owned by Changyou’s subsidiaries, they are not able to make dividend payments to Changyou’s subsidiaries. Instead, each of AmazGame, 7Road Technology, Gamespace and ICE Information, Changyou’s subsidiaries in China, entered into a number of contracts with its corresponding VIE, pursuant to which the VIE pays the PRC subsidiary of Changyou for certain services that the PRC subsidiary of Changyou provides to the VIE. However, depending on the nature of services provided, certain of these payments are subject to PRC taxes, including business taxes and value-added tax (“VAT”), which effectively reduce the amount that Changyou receives from the VIEs. The PRC government might impose restrictions on such payments or change the tax rates applicable to such payments. Any such restrictions on such payment or increases in the applicable tax rates could limit Changyou’s ability to receive payments from the VIEs or limit the amount of such payments, and could in turn adversely affect its business and its net income and its ability to pay dividends to its shareholders, including us. Changyou operates some of its existing games, and plans to operate certain of its pipeline and future games, with internet publishing numbers that Changyou obtained through unrelated third-party electronic publishing entities. If the GAPP challenges the commercial operation of any of Changyou’s games that are operated with Internet publishing numbers obtained through third-party publishing entities, Changyou may be subject to various penalties, including restrictions on its operations. Under PRC regulations issued by the GAPP and the MIIT relating to the regulation of online publication, an internet publishing license is required for online game operators, and a publishing number obtained under such a license is required for each game in operation and publicly available in the PRC. Changyou publishes its games SJQY, DDTank, Wartune and certain of its other existing games with publishing numbers obtained through third party licensed electronic publishing entities. Changyou’s VIE Shanghai ICE is still in the process of applying for an Internet publishing license and 7Road intends to continue to publish certain of its pipeline and future games with publishing numbers obtained through third parties. See “Specific Regulations—Regulation of the Online Game Services—Online Games and Cultural Products”. Current PRC regulations are not clear as to the consequence of obtaining publishing numbers through third-party electronic publishing entities. Changyou’s past and expected future practices might be challenged by the GAPP, which could subject Changyou to various penalties, including fines, confiscation of publishing equipment and the revenues generated from the publishing activities, the revocation of its business license, or the forced discontinuation of or restrictions on its operations. If Changyou is found to be in violation of current or future PRC laws and regulations regarding Internet-related services and telecom-related activities, Changyou could be subject to severe penalties. The PRC has enacted regulations that apply to Internet-related services and telecom-related activities. While many aspects of these regulations remain unclear, they purport to limit and require licensing of various aspects of the provision of Internet information and content, online games, and online advertising services. Under regulations issued by the SARFT, Websites authorized to disseminate news must apply to the SARFT to obtain a Permit for the Network Transmission of Audiovisual Programs in order to disseminate streaming video online. Under additional SARFT regulations, the business of providing public program searching and watching services through the Internet to the public is classified as an Internet audio-video program service for which a Permit for the Network Transmission of Audiovisual Programs is required. Changyou’s online video services offered on the 17173.com Website are operated by Guanyou Gamespace through a permit held by Sohu Internet and Guanyou Gamespace has not yet been granted such a permit directly. If the video services conducted by Guanyou Gamespace are later challenged by the SARFT, Changyou may be subject to severe penalties, including fines, or the suspension of its video services or even its operations. If Changyou is ordered to suspend the video services provided under 17173.com Website, its user traffic will be reduced and therefore Changyou’s revenues derived from online advertising will be negatively affected. In addition, Guanyou Gamespace is in the process of renewing its ICP license and Online Culture Operating Permit to include the 17173 Business. If Guanyou Gamespace is unable to obtain such renewals, Changyou may not be allowed to continue the operation of the 17173 Business or be subject to severe penalties. In addition, the PRC government may promulgate new laws or regulations at any time. If current or future laws or regulations regarding Internet-related activities are interpreted to be inconsistent with Changyou’s ownership structure and/or its business operations, Changyou’s business could be severely impaired and it could be subject to severe penalties. 70 Table of Contents Regulation and censorship of information disseminated over the Internet in China may adversely affect Changyou’s business, and Changyou may be liable for information displayed on, retrieved from or linked to its Websites. The PRC government has adopted regulations governing Internet access and the distribution of news and other information over the Internet. Under these regulations, Internet content providers and Internet publishers are prohibited from posting or displaying over the Internet any content that, among other things, violates PRC laws and regulations, impairs the national dignity of China, or is obscene, superstitious, fraudulent or defamatory. When Internet content providers and Internet publishers, including online game operators, find that information falling within the above scope is transmitted on their Websites or is stored in their electronic bulletin service systems, they are required to terminate the transmission of such information or delete such information immediately, keep records, and report to relevant authorities. Failure to comply with these requirements could result in the revocation of Changyou’s ICP license and other required licenses and the closure of Changyou’s Websites. Internet content providers may also be held liable for prohibited information displayed on, retrieved from or linked to their Websites. In addition, the MIIT has published regulations that subject Internet content providers to potential liability for the actions of game players and others using their Websites, including liability for violations of PRC laws prohibiting the dissemination of content deemed to be socially destabilizing. As these regulations are subject to interpretation by the relevant authorities, it is not possible for Changyou to determine in all cases the type of content that could result in liability for it as an MMOG developer and operator, a developer and operator of Web, social and mobile games and an operator of the 17173 Business. In addition, Changyou may not be able to control or restrict the content of other Internet content providers linked to or accessible through its Websites, or content generated or placed on its Websites by its game players, despite its attempt to monitor such content. To the extent that regulatory authorities find any portion of Changyou’s content objectionable, they may require Changyou to curtail its games, which may reduce its game player base, the amount of time its games are played or the purchases of virtual items. Changyou may be subject to the PRC government’s ongoing crackdown on Internet pornographic content. The Chinese government has stringent regulations on online pornographic information and has launched several crackdowns on Internet pornography. Regulations jointly issued by the MIIT and three other government authorities jointly provide for rewards of up to RMB10,000 to Internet users who report Websites that feature pornography and the MIIT established a committee to review such reports to determine an appropriate award. Changyou has not, to date, received any penalty from the PRC government in this regard. However, it is possible that content considered pornographic or vulgar by PRC government agencies will appear in the future on Websites or games that Changyou operates. In the event that Changyou is accused by the government of hosting pornographic or vulgar content, Changyou’s business and reputation could be adversely affected. There are currently no laws or regulations in the PRC governing property rights of virtual assets and therefore it is not clear what liabilities, if any, Changyou may have relating to the loss of virtual assets by its game players. In the course of playing the games, some virtual assets, such as game player experience, skills and weaponry, are acquired and accumulated. Such virtual assets can be highly valued by game players and in some cases are traded among game players for real money or assets. In practice, virtual assets can be lost for various reasons, such as data loss caused by delay of network service by a network crash, or by hacking activities. There are currently no PRC laws and regulations governing property rights of virtual assets. As a result, it is unclear who the legal owner of virtual assets is and whether the ownership of virtual assets is protected by law. In addition, it is unclear under PRC law whether an operator of online games such as Changyou would have any liability (whether in contract, tort or otherwise) for loss of such virtual assets by game players. Based on several judgments regarding the liabilities of online game operators for loss of virtual assets by game players, the courts have generally required the online game operators to provide well-developed security systems to protect such virtual assets owned by game players. In the event of a loss of virtual assets, Changyou may be sued by game players and may be held liable for damages. Changyou’s online game operations may be adversely affected by implementation of new anti-fatigue-related regulations. The PRC government may decide to adopt more stringent policies to monitor the online game industry as a result of adverse public reaction to perceived addiction to online games, particularly by minors. Eight PRC government authorities, including the GAPP, the Ministry of Education and the MIIT, jointly issued the Anti-Fatigue Notice, requiring all Chinese online game operators to adopt an “anti-fatigue system” in an effort to curb addiction to online games by minors. Under the anti-fatigue system, three hours or less of continuous play is defined to be “healthy,” three to five hours is defined to be “fatiguing,” and five hours or more is defined to be “unhealthy.” Game operators are required to reduce the value of game benefits for minor game players by half when those game players reach the “fatigue” level, and to zero when they reach the “unhealthy” level. In addition, online game players in China are now required to register their identity card numbers before they can play an online game. This system allows game operators to identify which game players are minors. These restrictions could limit Changyou’s ability to increase its business among minors. If these restrictions were expanded to apply to adult game players in the future, Changyou’s revenues could be adversely affected. 71 Table of Contents These eight PRC government authorities subsequently promulgated additional regulations, including a Notice on Initializing the verification of Real-name Registration for Anti-Fatigue System on Internet Games (the “Real-name Regulation Notice”), to strengthen the implementation of the anti-fatigue system and real-name registration. The Real-name Registration Notice’s main focus is to prevent minors from using an adult’s identity to play Internet games and, accordingly, provides stringent punishment for online game operators for not implementing the anti-fatigue and real name registration measures properly and effectively. The most severe punishment contemplated by the Real-name Registration Notice is termination of the operation of the online game if it is found to be in violation of the Anti-Fatigue Notice, the Real-name Registration Notice or the Monitor System Circular. The Real-name Registration Notice increases Changyou’s operating risks, as Changyou will be required to spend more resources on the real-name verification and anti-fatigue system, which will lead to an increase in its operation costs. In addition, the amount of time that minors will be able to spend playing online games such as Changyou’s will be further limited, which can be expected to lead to a reduction in Changyou’s revenues. Furthermore, if Changyou is found to be violating these regulations, it may be required to suspend or discontinue its online game operations. The PRC government has implemented tight regulation of Internet cafés, which are currently one of the primary places where Changyou’s games are played. Strict government regulation of Internet cafés could restrict Changyou’s ability to maintain or increase its revenues and its game player base. Internet cafés are one of the primary places where Changyou’s games are played. In April 2001, the PRC government began tightening its regulation and supervision of Internet cafés. In particular, a large number of Internet cafés without requisite government licenses were closed. In addition, the PRC government imposed capital and facility requirements for the establishment of Internet cafés. The PRC government’s policy encourages the development of a limited number of national and regional Internet café chains and discourages the establishment of independent Internet cafés, and the total number of Internet cafés nationwide is restricted and controlled by the relevant authorities. PRC governmental authorities may from time to time impose stricter requirements, such as limits on the ages of customers and on hours of operation, among others, as a result of the occurrence or perception of, or media attention on, gang fights, fires and other incidents in or related to Internet cafés. So long as Internet cafés remain as one of the primary places for game players to play Changyou’s games, a reduction in the number, or any slowdown in the growth, of Internet cafés or restrictions on their operations in China could limit Changyou’s ability to maintain or increase its revenues and its game player base. Restrictions on virtual currency may adversely affect the online game revenues of Changyou. The online game revenues of Changyou are collected through the sale of its prepaid cards or online sale of game points. The Notice on the Reinforcement of the Administration of Internet Cafés and Online Games (“Internet Cafés Notice”), issued by the MOC in 2007, directs the PBOC, to strengthen the administration of virtual currency in online games to avoid any adverse impact on the PRC economy and financial system. The Internet Cafés Notice places strict limits on the total amount of virtual currency issued by online game operators in the PRC and the amount purchased by individual users in the PRC, and requires a clear division between virtual transactions and real transactions carried out by way of electronic commerce. The Internet Cafés Notice also provides that virtual currency should only be used to purchase virtual items. In 2009, the MOC and the MOFCOM jointly issued the Notice on Strengthening the Administration of Online Game Virtual Currency (“Virtual Currency Notice”). In the Virtual Currency Notice, the MOC and the MOFCOM for the first time defined “virtual currency” as a type of virtual exchange instrument issued by online game operators, purchased directly or indirectly by the game user by exchanging legal currency at a certain exchange rate, saved outside the game programs, stored in servers provided by online game operators in electronic record format and represented by specific numeric units. In addition, the Virtual Currency Notice categorizes companies involved with virtual currency in the PRC as either issuers or trading platforms and prohibits companies from simultaneously operating both as issuers and as trading platforms. One of the Virtual Currency Notice’s stated intended objectives is to limit the circulation of virtual currency and thereby reduce concerns that it may impact real world inflation. Specifically, the Virtual Currency Notice requires online game operators to report the total amount of their issued virtual currency on a quarterly basis and game operators are prohibited from issuing disproportionate amounts of virtual currencies in order to generate revenues. In addition, the Virtual Currency Notice reiterates that virtual currency can only be provided to users in exchange for an RMB payment and can only be used to pay for virtual goods and services of the issuers. Online game operators are prohibited from providing lucky draws or lotteries which are conducted on the condition that participants contribute cash or virtual currencies in exchange for game props or virtual currencies, and from providing virtual currency trading services to minors. The Virtual Currency Notice places additional potentially burdensome obligations on online game operators, including a requirement that operators keep transaction data records for no less than 180 days, which means that Changyou must design and operate its databases so that it can maintain users’ information for the minimum required period, resulting in higher costs for its online game operations. Changyou must tailor its business model carefully in order to comply with the overall requirements of the Virtual Currency Notice, in a manner which can be expected to result in relatively lower sales of its prepaid cards or game points, coins and an adverse impact on its online game revenue. 72 Table of Contents Changyou’s business may be adversely affected by public opinion and governmental policies in China as well as in other jurisdictions where Changyou operates its MMOGs and Web games or licenses its MMOGs and Web games to third parties. Currently, most of Changyou’s game players in China are young males, many of whom are students. Due to a relatively high degree of game player loyalty to MMOGs or Web games, easy access to personal computers and Internet cafés, and the lack of other appealing forms of entertainment in China, many teenagers in China frequently play online games. This may result in these teenagers spending less time on or refraining from other activities, including education, vocational training, sports, and resting, which could result in adverse public reaction and stricter government regulation. For example, the PRC government has promulgated anti-fatigue-related regulations to limit the amount of time minors can play online games. Adverse public opinion could discourage game players from playing Changyou’s games, and could result in government regulations that impose additional limitations on the operations of online games as well as game players’ access to online games. For example, under the Monitor System Circular online game operators are required to adopt various measures to maintain a system to communicate with the parents of minors playing online games and are required to monitor the activities of the minors and suspend the accounts of minors if so requested by their parents. We believe that stricter government regulations, such as regulations imposing stricter age and hour limits, limiting the issuance of virtual currency by online game operators or the amount of virtual currency that can be purchased by an individual game player, and extending anti-fatigue-related regulations to adults, could be implemented in the future. And such adverse public opinion or tightened government regulations could adversely affect Changyou’s ability to maintain or increase its revenues. In addition, the PRC State Administration of Taxation (“SAT”), has announced that it will tax game players on the income derived from the trading of virtual currencies at the rate of 20%. It is currently unclear how the tax will be collected or if there will be any effect on Changyou’s game players or its business, but collection of such a tax might discourage players who are interested in trading virtual currencies from playing the games of Changyou, which could reduce its revenues. Moreover, similar adverse public reaction may arise, and similar government policies may be adopted, in other jurisdictions where Changyou licenses or operates its games, which could similarly adversely affect Changyou’s revenues. PRC laws and regulations governing the online game industry in China are evolving and subject to future changes. Changyou may fail to obtain or maintain all applicable permits, approvals, registrations and filings. The online game industry in China is highly regulated by the PRC government. Various regulatory authorities of the PRC central government, such as the PRC State Council, the MIIT, the GAPP, the MOC and the Ministry of Public Security, are empowered to issue and implement regulations governing various aspects of the online game industry. Changyou is required to obtain applicable permits, approvals and registrations from, or make necessary filings with, different regulatory authorities in order to operate its online games. For example, as an online game operator in China, Changyou must obtain an ICP license from the MIIT’s local office, an Online Cultural Operating Permit from the MOC and an Internet publishing license from the GAPP in order to distribute games through the Internet. Any online game Changyou operates needs to be approved by the GAPP prior to its launch and filed with the MOC within 30 days after its launch. Once a new online game or any upgrade, expansion pack or new version of any existing game is launched, such new game or such upgrade, expansion pack or new version of such existing game must be filed with the MOC and approval must be obtained from the GAPP for online publication. Shenzhen 7Road’s and Shanghai ICE’s current ICP licenses do not specifically permit the operation of BBS services, and it is unclear whether Shenzhen 7Road and Shanghai ICE are required to each have an ICP license that specifically permits such services, as the PRC State Council has issued a decision that such specific approval is not required for an ICP, but local authorities generally continue to require such specific approval for BBS services. If Changyou fails to maintain any of its permits, approvals or registrations, to make any necessary filings, or to apply for and obtain any new permits, approvals or registrations or make any new filings on a timely basis, it may be subject to various penalties, including fines and a requirement that it discontinues or limits its operations. As the online game industry is at an early stage of development in China, new statutes laws and regulations may be adopted from time to time to require additional licenses and permits other than those Changyou currently has, and address new issues that arise. In addition, substantial uncertainties exist regarding the interpretation and implementation of current and any future PRC laws applicable to the online game industry. For example, there is ambiguity as to the division of authority and responsibilities between the GAPP and the MOC with respect to regulating online games and, as a result, there may be overlapping approval requirements with respect to some aspects of Changyou’s games or its game operations. Furthermore, as mobile games are a new type of online game, there are uncertainties relating to whether a game developer, such as Changyou, which provides mobile games to mobile device users, needs to obtain a separate operating license in addition to the ICP license that it has already obtained. For any mobile games it launches, Changyou may be required to apply for a separate operating license for the mobile applications. Therefore, Changyou may not be able to obtain timely, or at all, required licenses or any other new license required in the future, and it may be found to be in violation of current or future PRC laws, which could impede its ability to conduct business. 73 Table of Contents Further strengthened supervision of the online game industry may adversely affect the online game operation of Changyou. In the GAPP Notice, the GAPP stated that it is the only governmental department with authority for examination and pre-approval of online games, and that all online game operators must obtain an internet publishing license to provide online game services. Under the GAPP Notice, additional approvals from the GAPP are required when game operators release new versions or expansion packs, or make any changes to the originally approved online game. In addition, on July 1, 2009, the GAPP issued a Notice on Strengthening the Approval and Administration of Imported Online Games, in which the GAPP stated that it is the only governmental department authorized by the PRC State Council to approve the importation of online games from offshore copyright owners. In the event of any failure to meet the above-mentioned requirements, an operator may face heavy penalties, such as being ordered to stop operation, or having its business license revoked. The online game business of Changyou may be adversely affected by these two GAPP notices. The launch of expansion packs and imported games might be delayed because of the extra approval required. Such delay in releasing expansion packs or imported games may result in higher costs for the online game operation of Changyou and have an adverse effect on its game revenue. On June 3, 2010, the MOC issued the Interim Measures for Online Games Administration (“Online Game Measures”), which became effective on August 1, 2010, aiming to further strengthen the MOC’s supervision of the online game industry. Specifically, the Online Game Measures reiterate that the MOC has the power to review the content of all online games except online game publications that have been pre-approved by the GAPP. However, the Online Game Measures do not clearly specify what constitutes “online game publication.” Furthermore, the Online Game Measures provide that all domestic online games must be filed with the MOC, while all imported online games are subject to a content review prior to their launch. If a substantial change (for example, any significant modification to a game’s storyline, language, tasks, or trading system) is made to an existing imported or domestic online game, it will be subject to a new content review. The online game business of Changyou may be adversely affected by the Online Game Measures. The Online Game Measures do not set forth any specific procedure for the required filing and content review procedures for online games and therefore may cause delay when Changyou tries to file or apply for content review with the MOC. In addition, for Changyou’s imported licensed games, the requirement for a prior approval of any substantial change may cause delay in releasing expansion packs, which may result in higher costs of the online game operation of Changyou and have an adverse effect on its game revenue. In addition, the Online Game Measures do not resolve certain inconsistencies and ambiguities resulting from pronouncements included in previous notices issued by the GAPP and the MOC. Because there is ambiguity in the scope of the authority and the roles and responsibilities of governmental departments, such as the MOC and the GAPP, with oversight of the online game industry, Changyou may face stricter scrutiny of the day-to-day operations of its online game business. If any of the online game operating entities of Changyou cannot comply with any of the stipulations of any PRC governmental department regarding the online game industry, Changyou may be subject to various penalties and its online game business may be adversely affected. Changyou’s business may be adversely affected if it cannot obtain a payment service license On June 14, 2010, the PBOC issued the Administrative Measure on the Payment Services of Non-Financial Institutions (“Payment Measures”), which went into effect on September 1, 2010. Under the Payment Measures, Payment Services are defined as the provision of capital transfer services by non-financial institutions acting as intermediaries, including services rendered in connection with network-based payments, issuance and settlement services for pre-paid cards and acquiring services for bank cards. The Payment Measures require all non-financial institutions engaging in Payment Services to obtain a Payment Service License from the PBOC. Failure to obtain a Payment License will lead to termination of the right to provide payment services. Given that the definition of “network-based payments” in the Payment Measures is vague, we are not sure whether or not Changyou’s fee collection activity related to its online game operations could be deemed to constitute a kind of payment service under the Payment Measures. If Changyou is required to apply for a Payment Service License under the Payment Measures, we cannot assure you that it will be able to obtain the required license in a timely manner. If Changyou is required to and cannot obtain such a license, its business will be adversely affected. Contract drafting, interpretation and enforcement in China involve significant uncertainty. Changyou has entered into numerous contracts governed by PRC law, many of which are material to its business. As compared with contracts in the United States, contracts governed by PRC law tend to contain less detail and are not as comprehensive in defining contracting parties’ rights and obligations. As a result, contracts in China are more vulnerable to disputes and legal challenges. In addition, contract interpretation and enforcement in China is not as developed as in the United States, and the result of any contract dispute is subject to significant uncertainties. Therefore, there is no assurance that Changyou will not be subject to disputes under its material contracts, and if such disputes arise, there is no assurance that Changyou will prevail. Due to the materiality of certain contracts to Changyou’s business, such as the license agreements with Louis Cha regarding Changyou’s rights to develop and operate TLBB and DMD, any dispute involving such contracts, even without merit, may materially and adversely affect Changyou’s reputation and its business operations, and may cause the price of its ADSs to decline. 74 Table of Contents Heightened scrutiny of acquisition transactions by PRC tax authorities may have a negative impact on Changyou’s business operations and its acquisition strategy. Pursuant to the Notice on Strengthening Administration of Enterprise Income Tax for Share Transfers by Non-PRC Resident Enterprises (“SAT Circular 698”), issued by the SAT effective on January 1, 2008, where a non-resident enterprise transfers the equity interests of a PRC tax resident enterprise indirectly by disposition of the equity interests of an overseas holding company, or an Indirect Transfer, and such overseas holding company is located in a tax jurisdiction that has an effective tax rate of less than 12.5% and does not impose income tax on foreign income of its residents, the non-resident enterprise must report the Indirect Transfer to tax authorities in the PRC. Using a “substance over form” principle, the PRC tax authorities may disregard the existence of the overseas holding company if it lacks a reasonable commercial purpose and was established for the purpose of reducing, avoiding or deferring PRC tax. As a result, gains derived from an Indirect Transfer may be subject to PRC withholding tax at a rate of up to 10%. SAT Circular 698 also provides that, where a non-PRC resident enterprise transfers its equity interests in a PRC tax resident enterprise to related parties of the non-PRC resident enterprise at a price lower than the fair market value, the PRC tax authorities have the power to make a reasonable adjustment to the taxable income resulting from the transaction. The SAT released the Announcement on Several Issues concerning the Administration of Income Tax of Non-tax-resident Enterprises (“SAT Public Notice 24”), which went into effect on April 1, 2011, to clarify several issues related to SAT Circular 698. Under SAT Public Notice 24, the term “effective tax” refers to the effective tax on the gain derived from the disposition of equity interests of an overseas holding company; and the term “does not impose income tax” refers to cases where the gain derived from disposition of the equity interests of an overseas holding company is not subject to income tax in the country or region where the overseas holding company is a resident. There is uncertainty as to the application of SAT Circular 698. For example, while the term “Indirect Transfer” is not clearly defined, it appears that PRC tax authorities are authorized to request information from a wide range of foreign entities that have no direct link to China. Moreover, the relevant PRC authorities have not issued any formal rules as to the process and format for reporting an Indirect Transfer to the PRC tax authorities. In addition, there are not any formal rules as to how it is determined whether a foreign investor lacks a commercial purpose and was established in order to reduce, avoid or defer PRC tax. SAT Circular 698 may be determined by PRC tax authorities to be applicable to the historical reorganization of 7Road, including Changyou’s acquisition of a controlling interest in 7Road, if any of the steps in the 7Road’s reorganization were determined by PRC tax authorities to lack a reasonable commercial purpose. As a result, the transfer of 7Road’s shares by certain shareholders to other parties may be subject to income tax on capital gains generated from such transfers of the shares, and PRC tax authorities might, at their discretion, adjust any capital gains and impose tax return filing obligations on the transferring shareholders or require Changyou to provide assistance for an investigation by PRC tax authorities. Although SAT Circular 698 contains an exemption for transfers of publicly traded stock in a PRC tax resident enterprise, it remains unclear whether Changyou will be deemed a PRC tax resident enterprise and whether such exemption will be applicable to the transfer of Changyou’s shares or ADSs. If Changyou is regarded as a non-PRC tax resident enterprise, PRC tax authorities may deem any future transfer of its ordinary shares or ADSs by its shareholders or holders of its ADSs to be subject to these regulations, which may subject such shareholders or holders of its ADSs to additional reporting obligations or tax burdens. In the case of failure to comply with these circulars by such shareholders or holders of Changyou’s ADSs, the PRC tax authorities may take actions, including requesting Changyou to provide assistance for their investigation, which could have a negative impact on its business operations. In addition, since Changyou may pursue acquisitions as one of its growth strategies, and may conduct acquisitions involving complex corporate structures, PRC tax authorities might, at their discretion, adjust the amount of capital gains or request that Changyou submit additional documentation for their review in connection with any potential acquisitions, which may cause Changyou to incur additional acquisition costs or delay its acquisition timetable. Changyou’s operating results for a particular period could fall below its expectations or the expectations of investors or research analysts, resulting in a decrease in the price of its ADSs. Changyou’s operating results may vary significantly from period to period as a result of factors beyond its control, such as the slowdown in China’s economic growth that occurred between the first quarter of 2010 and the third quarter of 2012, caused in part by measures adopted by the Chinese government intended to slow such growth and to temper real estate prices and inflation, and the significant instability recently experienced in the worldwide economy, with growth in the United States slowing, and the European Community facing disruptions as a result of crises in the economies of Greece and Spain, among other countries, and such factors may be difficult to predict for any given period. Other factors also could cause significant fluctuations in the operating results of Changyou, including the timing and success of its new game launches, its costs of developing and launching new games, and the level of user activity of Changyou’s games in China during particular fiscal quarters. If Changyou’s operating results for any period fall below its expectations or the expectations of investors or research analysts, the price of Changyou’s ADSs is likely to decrease. 75 Table of Contents Changyou may need additional capital and may sell additional ADSs or other equity securities or incur indebtedness, which could result in dilution of our interest in Changyou or increase Changyou’s debt service obligations. Changyou may require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions it may decide to pursue. If the cash resources of Changyou are insufficient to satisfy its cash requirements, it may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities or equity-linked debt securities could result in dilution of our interest in Changyou. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict the operations of Changyou. We cannot assure that financing will be available in acceptable amounts and terms, if at all. Changyou might be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which would result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to us a holder of its ordinary shares. A non-U.S. corporation will be considered a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”), for any taxable year if either (i) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or (ii) at least 50% of the value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets during a taxable year) is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. We expect that Changyou will not be treated as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes for the current taxable year ending November 30, 2013. Our expectation is based on Changyou’s current and anticipated operations and the composition of its earnings and assets (including goodwill) for the 2013 taxable year, including the current and expected valuation of its assets based on the market price of its ADSs. However, Changyou currently holds, and we expect it to continue to hold, a substantial amount of cash and the value of its other assets may be based in part on the market price of its ADSs, which is likely to fluctuate in the future (and may fluctuate considerably given that market prices of Internet and online game companies historically have been especially volatile). Furthermore, it is not entirely clear how the contractual arrangements between Changyou and its consolidated variable interest entities will be treated for purposes of the PFIC rules. In addition, the actual PFIC status of Changyou for any taxable year will not be determinable until the close of such taxable year. Accordingly, there is no guarantee that Changyou will not be a PFIC for any taxable year. PFIC status depends on the composition of the assets and income of Changyou and the value of its assets (including, among others, a pro rata portion of the income and assets of each subsidiary in which it owns, directly or indirectly, at least 25% (by value) of the equity interest) from time to time. If Changyou was treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which we hold its Class A ordinary shares of Class B ordinary shares, certain adverse United States federal income tax consequences could apply us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 