ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS If we fail to forecast demand for our products accurately, we may incur product shortages, delays in product shipments or excess or insufficient product inventory. We generally do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers. Because production lead times often exceed the amount of time required to fulfill orders, we often must build in advance of orders, relying on an imperfect demand forecast to project volumes and product mix. Our demand forecast accuracy can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including inaccurate forecasting by our customers, changes in market conditions, new part introductions by our competitors that lead to our loss of previous design wins, adverse changes in our product order mix and demand for our customers’ products or models. Even after an order is received, our customers may cancel these orders or request a decrease in production quantities. Any such cancellation or decrease subjects us to a number of risks, most notably that our projected sales will not materialize on schedule or at all, leading to unanticipated revenue shortfalls and excess or obsolete inventory which we may be unable to sell to other customers. Alternatively, if we are unable to project customer 10 Table of Contents requirements accurately, we may not build enough products, which could lead to delays in product shipments and lost sales opportunities in the near term, as well as force our customers to identify alternative sources, which could affect our ongoing relationships with these customers. We have in the past had customers dramatically increase their requested production quantities with little or no advance notice and after they had submitted their original order. We have on occasion been unable to fulfill these revised orders within the time period requested. Either overestimating or underestimating demand would lead to excess, obsolete or insufficient inventory, which could harm our operating results, cash flow and financial condition, as well as our relationships with our customers. We receive a substantial portion of our net revenue from a small number of OEM customers and distributors, and the loss of, or a significant reduction in, orders from those customers or our other largest customers would adversely affect our operations and financial condition. We received an aggregate of approximately 88%, 90% and 84% of our net revenue from our ten largest customers for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Any action by one of our largest customers that affects our orders, product pricing or vendor status could significantly reduce our net revenue and harm our financial results. We receive a substantial portion of our net revenue from a small number of customers. For example, for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, Samsung and LG Electronics were our largest customers. Sales to Samsung represented 27%, 33% and 20% of our net revenue in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Additionally, we sell to a number of contract manufacturers of Samsung. Sales to Samsung and its contract manufacturers represented 31%, 41% and 36% of our net revenue in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Sales to LG Electronics represented 17%, 24% and 25% of our net revenue in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We anticipate that we will continue to be dependent on these customers for a significant portion of our net revenue in the immediate future; however, we do not have long-term contractual purchase commitments from them, and we cannot assure you that they will continue to be our customers. Because our largest customers account for such a significant part of our business, the loss of, or a decline in sales to, any of our major customers would negatively impact our business. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and we expect our operating results to continue to fluctuate. Our revenues are difficult to predict and have varied significantly in the past from period to period. We expect our revenues and expense levels to continue to vary in the future, making it difficult to predict our future operating results. In particular, we experience seasonality and variability in demand for our products as our customers manage their inventories. Our customers tend to increase inventory of our products in anticipation of the peak fourth quarter buying season for the mobile consumer electronic devices in which our products are used, which often leads to sequentially lower sales of our products in the first calendar quarter and, potentially, late in the fourth calendar quarter. Additional factors that could cause our results to fluctuate include: • the forecasting, scheduling, rescheduling or cancellation of orders by our customers, particularly in China and other emerging markets; • costs associated with litigation, especially related to intellectual property; • liquidity and cash flow of our distributors, suppliers and end-market customers; • changes in manufacturing costs, including wafer, test and assembly costs, and manufacturing yields, product quality and reliability; • the timing and availability of adequate manufacturing capacity from our manufacturing suppliers; 11 Table of Contents • our ability to successfully define, design and release new products in a timely manner that meet our customers’ needs; • the timing, performance and pricing of new product introductions by us and by our competitors; • general economic conditions in the countries where we operate or our products are used; • changes in exchange rates, interest rates, tax rates and tax withholding; • geopolitical stability, especially affecting China, Taiwan and Asia in general; and • changes in domestic and international tax laws. Unfavorable changes in any of the above factors, most of which are beyond our control, could significantly harm our business and results of operations. We may be required to record additional significant charges to earnings if our goodwill becomes impaired. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, we review our goodwill for impairment each year as of September 30th and when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. The carrying value of our goodwill may not be recoverable due to factors indicating a decrease in the value of the Company, such as a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced estimates of future cash flows and slower growth rates in our industry. Estimates of future cash flows are based on an updated long-term financial outlook of our operations. However, actual performance in the near-term or long-term could be materially different from these forecasts, which could impact future estimates. For example, a significant decline in our stock price and/or market capitalization may result in goodwill impairment. We may be required to record a charge to earnings in our financial statements during a period in which an impairment of our goodwill is determined to exist, which may negatively impact our results of operations. We may be required to record impairment charges in future quarters as a result of the decline in value of our investments in auction rate securities. As of December 31, 2010, our investment portfolio included interest bearing auction rate securities (ARS) with a fair value of $1.6 million. Our ARS represent investments in debt obligations collateralized by Federal Family Education Program student loans. At the time of acquisition, these ARS investments were intended to provide liquidity via an auction process that resets the applicable interest rate at predetermined calendar intervals, allowing investors to either roll over their holdings or gain immediate liquidity by selling such interests at par. The monthly auctions historically provided a liquid market for these securities. However, beginning in 2008, uncertainties in the credit markets have affected all of our holdings in ARS and auctions for our investments in these securities have failed to settle on their respective settlement dates. Auctions for our investments in these securities continued to fail through December 31, 2010. If the current market conditions deteriorate further, the anticipated recovery in market values does not occur, or if we determine that we intend to sell the ARS, it is possible that we will be required to sell the ARS before a recovery of the auction process, or that we will not recover the entire amortized cost basis of the ARS, and we may be required to record impairment charges in future quarters which may negatively impact our results of operations. We may be unsuccessful in developing and selling new products or in penetrating new markets. We operate in a dynamic environment characterized by rapidly changing technologies and industry standards and technological obsolescence. Our competitiveness and future success depends on our ability to design, develop, manufacture, assemble, test, market and support new products and enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis. A fundamental shift in technologies in any of our product markets could harm our competitive position within these markets. Our failure to anticipate these shifts, to develop new technologies or 12 Table of Contents to react to changes in existing technologies could materially delay our development of new products, which could result in product obsolescence, decreased net revenue and a loss of design wins to our competitors. Our understanding is that our overall product acceptance rate is typical for the semiconductor analog sector due to ongoing competition, long design-in and qualification cycles, late introduction and/or product not meeting exact customer requirements. In some instances, our products were designed into a customer’s product or system but our customer’s product failed to gain market acceptance so no substantial business resulted. In other cases, we may introduce a product before the market is ready to accept or require the features offered in our product, in which revenues may result at a later and somewhat unpredictable date in the future. As part of our continued efforts to grow and diversify our product offerings, we continue to expand our family of LED driver system solutions for LED backlit LCD televisions and also recently introduced our first µSwitcher converter family of ultra-compact switching regulators. The success of these and all of our new products depends on accurate forecasts of long-term market demand and future technological developments, as well as on a variety of specific implementation factors, including: • effective marketing, sales and service; • timely and efficient completion of process design and device structure improvements and implementation of manufacturing, assembly and test processes; and • the quality, performance and reliability of the product. If we fail to introduce new products or penetrate new markets, our revenues will likely decrease over time and our financial condition could suffer. We may not have the expertise we need to successfully define or develop products for new market opportunities, and we may lack the sales connections and applications expertise to secure orders for such products. Identifying and hiring such resources may be difficult and we may not be successful in identifying and hiring necessary personnel. Attempts to balance product development and sales efforts between new and existing applications may delay our entrance into new markets and make it more difficult to penetrate new customers and application opportunities in the future. Due to defects and failures that may occur, our products may not meet specifications, which may cause customers to return or stop buying our products and may expose us to product liability claims. Our customers generally establish demanding specifications for quality, performance and reliability that our products must meet. Integrated circuits as complex as ours often encounter development delays and may contain undetected defects or failures when first introduced or after commencement of commercial shipments, which might require product replacement or recall. In addition, our customers may not use our products in a way that is consistent with our published specifications. If defects and failures occur in our products during the design phase or after, or our customers use our products in ways that are not consistent with their intended use, we could experience lost revenues, increased costs, including warranty expense and costs associated with customer support, delays in or cancellations or rescheduling of orders or shipments, or product returns or discounts, any of which would harm our operating results. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources, including any available insurance, to satisfy any asserted claims. The nature of the design process requires us to incur expenses prior to earning revenues associated with those expenses, and we will have difficulty selling our products if system designers do not design our products into their electronic systems. We devote significant time and resources to working with our customers’ system designers to understand their future needs and to provide products that we believe will meet those needs. If a customer’s system designer initially chooses a competitor’s product for a particular electronic system, it becomes significantly more difficult 13 Table of Contents for us to sell our products for use in that electronic system because changing suppliers can involve significant cost, time, effort and risk for our customers. We often incur significant expenditures in the development of a new product without any assurance that our customers’ system designers will select our product for use in their electronic systems. We often are required to anticipate which product designs will generate demand in advance of our customers expressly indicating a need for that particular design. In some cases, there is minimal or no demand for our products in our anticipated target applications. Even if our products are selected by our customers’ system designers, a substantial period of time will elapse before we generate revenues related to the significant expenses we have incurred. The reasons for this delay generally include the following elements of our product sales and development cycle timeline and related influences: • our customers usually require a comprehensive technical evaluation of our products before they incorporate them into their electronic systems; • it can take up to 12 months from the time our products are selected to complete the design process; • it can take an additional 9 to 12 months or longer to complete commercial introduction of the electronic systems that use our products, if they are introduced at all; • original equipment manufacturers typically limit the initial release of their electronic systems to evaluate performance and consumer demand; and • the development and commercial introduction of products incorporating new technology are frequently delayed. We estimate that the overall sales and development cycle timeline of an average product is approximately 16 months. Additionally, even if system designers use our products in their electronic systems, we cannot assure you that these systems will be commercially successful. As a result, we are unable to accurately forecast the volume and timing of our orders and revenues associated with any new product introductions. Any increase in the manufacturing cost of our products could reduce our gross margins and operating profit. The semiconductor business exhibits ongoing competitive pricing pressure from customers and competitors. Accordingly, any increase in the cost of our products, whether by adverse purchase price variances or adverse manufacturing cost variances, will reduce our gross margins and operating profit. We do not have many long-term supply agreements with our manufacturing suppliers and, consequently, we may not be able to obtain price reductions or anticipate or prevent future price increases from our suppliers. The average selling price of our products may decline, or a change in the mix of product orders may occur, either of which could reduce our gross margins. During a power management product’s life, its selling price tends to decrease for a particular application. As a result, to maintain gross margins on our products, we must continue to identify new applications for our products, reduce manufacturing costs for our existing products and introduce new products. If we are unable to identify new, high gross margin applications for our existing products, reduce our production costs or sell new, high gross margin products, our gross margins will suffer. A sustained reduction in our gross margins could harm our future operating results, cash flow and financial condition, which could lead to a significant drop in the price of our common stock. 14 Table of Contents Because we receive a substantial portion of our net revenue through distributors, their financial viability and ability to access the capital markets could impact our ability to continue to do business with them and could result in lower net revenue, which could adversely affect our operating results and our customer relationships. We obtain a portion of our net revenue through sales to distributors located in Asia who act as our fulfillment representatives. For example, sales to distributors accounted for 39%, 24% and 31% of our net revenue for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In the normal course of their operation as fulfillment representatives, these distributors typically perform functions such as order scheduling, shipment coordination, inventory stocking, payment and collections and, when applicable, currency exchange between purchasers of our products and these distributors. Our distributors’ compensation for these functions is reflected in the price of the products we sell to these distributors. Many of our current distributors also serve as our sales representatives procuring orders for us to fill directly. If these distributors are unable to pay us in a timely manner or if we anticipate that they will not pay us, we may elect to withhold future shipments, which could adversely affect our operating results. If one of our distributors experiences severe financial difficulties, becomes insolvent or declares bankruptcy, we could lose product inventory held by that distributor and we could be required to write off the value of any receivables owed to us by that distributor. We could also be required to record bad debt expense in excess of our reserves. We may not be successful in recognizing these indications or in finding replacement distributors in a timely manner, or at all, any of which could harm our operating results, cash flow and financial condition. Our distributor arrangements often require us to accept product returns and to provide price protection and if we fail to properly estimate our product returns and price protection reserves, this may adversely impact our reported financial information. A substantial portion of our sales are made through third-party distribution arrangements, which include stock rotation rights that generally permit the return of up to 5% of the previous three months’ purchases. We generally accept these returns quarterly. We record estimated returns for stock rotation at the time of shipment. Our arrangements with our distributors typically also include price protection provisions if we reduce our list prices. We record reserves for price protection at the time we decide to reduce our list prices. In the future, we could receive returns or claims that are in excess of our estimates and reserves, which could harm our operating results. If our relationship with any of our distributors deteriorates or terminates, it could lead to a temporary or permanent loss of revenues until a replacement sales channel can be established to service the affected end-user customers, as well as inventory write-offs or accounts receivable write-offs. In addition, we also may be obligated to repurchase unsold products from a distributor if we decide to terminate our relationship with that distributor. Our current backlog may not be indicative of future sales. Due to the nature of our business, in which order lead times may vary, and the fact that customers are generally allowed to reschedule or cancel orders on short notice, we believe that our backlog is not necessarily a good indicator of our future sales. Our quarterly net revenue also depends on orders booked and shipped in that quarter. Because our lead times for the manufacturing of our products generally take six to ten weeks, we often must build in advance of orders. This exposes us to certain risks, most notably the possibility that expected sales will not occur, which may lead to excess inventory, and we may not be able to sell this inventory to other customers. In addition, we supply LG Electronics, one of our largest customers, through its central hub and we do not record backlog with respect to the products we ship to the hub. Therefore, our backlog may not be a reliable indicator of future sales. 15 Table of Contents We face risks in connection with our internal control over financial reporting and any related remedial measures that we undertake to correct any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. In accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we are required to report annually on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) and Rule 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. This report must include disclosure of any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. In preparation for issuing this management report, we document, evaluate, and test our internal control over financial reporting. No material weakness will be considered remediated until our remedial efforts have operated for an appropriate period, have been tested, and management has concluded that they are operating effectively. We cannot be certain that any measures we take to remediate a material weakness will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting and that we will successfully remediate the material weakness. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will not in the future identify further material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that we have not discovered to date, which may impact the reliability of our financial reporting and financial statements. If consumer demand for mobile consumer electronic devices declines, our net revenue will decrease. Our products are used primarily in the mobile consumer electronic devices market. For the foreseeable future, we expect to see the significant majority of our net revenue continues to come from this market, especially in wireless handsets. If consumer demand for these products declines and fewer mobile customer electronic devices are sold, our net revenue will decrease significantly. For example, in the second half of 2008, we experienced a significant decrease in worldwide billings to our customers, suggesting that our customers were reacting to decreased consumer demand for their end products. In an adverse economic climate such as the current economic downturn, consumers are less likely to prioritize purchasing new mobile consumer electronic devices or upgrading existing devices. In addition, if we are unsuccessful in identifying alternative markets for our products in a timely manner, our operating results will suffer dramatically. Substantially all of our manufacturing suppliers, customers and operations are located in Asia, which subjects us to additional risks, including regional economic influences, logistical complexity, political instability and natural disasters including earthquakes. We conduct, and expect to continue to conduct, almost all of our business with companies that are located outside the United States. Based on ship-to locations, substantially all of our net revenue for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 came from customers in Asia, particularly South Korea, Taiwan, China and Japan. A vast majority of our contract manufacturing operations are located in South Korea, Taiwan, Malaysia and China. In addition, we have a design center in Shanghai, China. As a result of our international focus, we face several challenges, including: • increased complexity and costs of managing international operations; • longer and more difficult collection of receivables; • political and economic instability; • limited protection of our intellectual property; • unanticipated changes in local regulations, including tax regulations; • timing and availability of import and export licenses; and • foreign currency exchange fluctuations relating to our international operating activities. 16 Table of Contents Our corporate headquarters in Santa Clara, California, our operations office in Chupei, Taiwan, and the production facilities of one of our wafer fabrication suppliers and several of our assembly and test suppliers in Hsinchu and across Taiwan are located near seismically active regions and are subject to periodic earthquakes. We do not maintain earthquake insurance and our business could be damaged in the event of a major earthquake or other natural disaster. In addition to risks in our operations from natural disasters, our customers are also subject to these risks. Any disaster impacting our customers could result in loss of orders, delay of business and temporary regional economic recessions. We are also more susceptible to the regional economic impact of health crises. Because we anticipate that we will continue to rely heavily on foreign companies or United States companies operating in Asia for our future growth, the above risks and issues that we do not currently anticipate could adversely affect our ability to conduct business and our results of operations. We outsource our wafer fabrication, testing, packaging, warehousing and shipping operations to third parties, and rely on these parties to produce and deliver our products according to requested demands in specification, quantity, cost and time. We rely on third parties for substantially all of our manufacturing operations, including wafer fabrication, wafer probe testing, wafer thinning, assembly, final test, warehousing and shipping. Furthermore, for certain packages, at times we rely on a single manufacturer. We depend on these parties to supply us with material of a requested quantity in a timely manner that meets our standards for yield, cost and manufacturing quality. Any problems with our manufacturing supply chain could adversely impact our ability to ship our products to our customers on time and in the quantity required, which in turn could cause an unanticipated decline in our sales and possibly damage our customer relationships. The current economic downturn could adversely affect the financial strength of our vendors and adversely impact their ability to manufacture product, resulting in a shortage or delay in product shipments to our customers. Our products are manufactured at a limited number of locations. If we experience manufacturing problems at a particular location or with a particular supplier, we would be required to transfer manufacturing to a backup supplier. Converting or transferring manufacturing from a primary supplier to a backup fabrication facility could be expensive and could take as long as 6 to 12 months. During such a transition, we would be required to meet customer demand from our then-existing inventory, as well as any partially finished goods that can be modified to the required product specifications. We do not seek to maintain sufficient inventory to address a lengthy transition period because we believe it is uneconomical to keep more than minimal inventory on hand. As a result, we may not be able to meet customer needs during such a transition, which could delay shipments, cause a production delay or stoppage for our customers, result in a decline in our sales and damage our customer relationships. Should we be required to manufacture safety stock and finished goods to insure against any supply interruptions to our customers, there is no guarantee that our customers would necessarily purchase the extra material and excess inventory may result. There is no guarantee we would be able to sell that excess inventory to other customers and we may have to write-off this material as an expense adversely affecting our financial performance. In addition, a significant portion of our sales are to customers that practice just-in-time order management from their suppliers, which gives us a very limited amount of time in which to process and complete these orders. As a result, delays in our production or shipping by the parties to whom we outsource these functions could reduce our sales, damage our customer relationships and damage our reputation in the marketplace, any of which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. 17 Table of Contents The loss of any of our key personnel could seriously harm our business, and our failure to attract or retain specialized technical and management talent could impair our ability to grow our business. The loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could seriously harm our business. In particular, our ability to define and design new products, gain new customers and grow our business depends on the continued contributions of Richard K. Williams, our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Technical Officer, as well as our senior level sales, finance, operations, technology and engineering personnel. Our future growth will also depend significantly on our ability to recruit and retain qualified and talented managers and engineers, along with key manufacturing, quality, sales and marketing staff members. There remains intense competition for these individuals in our industry, especially those with power and analog semiconductor design and applications expertise. We cannot assure you we will be successful in finding, hiring and retaining these individuals. If we are unable to recruit and retain such talent, our product and technology development, manufacturing, marketing and sales efforts could be impaired. In economic downturns where consumer demand for our customer’s products is reduced or delayed, we expect lower net revenue and reduced profitability. In response to these downturns, we may implement certain cost reduction actions including spending controls, forced holidays and company shutdowns, employee layoffs, shortened work-weeks and involuntary salary reductions. For example, in 2010 we reduced our US workforce by approximately 15%. It is uncertain what affect such measures may have on our ability to retain key talent and staff members, or our ability to rehire employees should business improve. Changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns could adversely affect our results. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by lower than anticipated earnings in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated earnings in countries where we have higher statutory rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof. Further, as a result of certain ongoing employment and capital investment commitments made by us, our income in certain countries is subject to reduced tax rates, and in some cases is wholly exempt from tax. Our failure to meet such commitments could adversely impact our effective tax rate. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We compete against companies with substantially greater financial and other resources, and our market share or gross margins may be reduced if we are unable to respond to competitive challenges effectively. The analog, mixed-signal, or analog with digital, and power management semiconductor industry in which we operate is highly competitive and dynamic, and we expect it to remain so. Our ability to compete effectively depends on defining, designing and regularly introducing new products that meet or anticipate the power management needs of our customers’ next-generation products and applications. We compete with numerous domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have greater financial and other resources with which to pursue marketing, technology development, product design, manufacturing, quality, sales and distribution of their products. We consider our primary competitors to be Maxim Integrated Products, Inc., Linear Technology Corporation, Intersil Corporation, Texas Instruments Incorporated, Semtech Corporation, National Semiconductor Corporation, Richtek Technology Corporation, austriamicrosystems and Rohm Co., LTD. We expect continued competition from existing competitors as well as from new entrants into the power management semiconductor market. Our ability to compete depends on a number of factors, including: • our success in identifying new and emerging markets, applications and technologies, and developing power management solutions for these markets; 18 Table of Contents • our products’ performance and cost effectiveness relative to that of our competitors’ products; • our ability to deliver products in large volume on a timely basis at a competitive price; • our success in utilizing new and proprietary technologies to offer products and features previously not available in the marketplace; • our ability to recruit application engineers and designers; and • our ability to protect our intellectual property. We cannot assure you that our products will compete favorably or that we will be successful in the face of increasing competition from new products and enhancements introduced by our existing competitors or new companies entering this market. Intellectual property litigation could result in significant costs, reduce sales of our products and cause our operating results to suffer. The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights and positions, which has resulted in protracted and expensive litigation for many companies. We have in the past received, and expect that in the future we may receive, communications from various industry participants alleging our infringement of their patents, trade secrets or other intellectual property rights. Any lawsuits resulting from such allegations could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidate our proprietary rights. Any potential intellectual property litigation also could force us to do one or more of the following: • stop selling products or using technology that contain the allegedly infringing intellectual property; • incur significant legal expenses; • pay damages to the party claiming infringement; • redesign those products that contain the allegedly infringing intellectual property; and • attempt to obtain a license to the relevant intellectual property from third parties, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. Furthermore, we have in the past agreed, and may in the future agree, to indemnify certain of our customers, distributors, suppliers, subcontractors and their affiliates for attorneys’ fees and damages and costs awarded against these parties in certain circumstances in which our products are alleged to infringe third-party intellectual property rights. These obligations could lead us to incur additional costs in related intellectual property litigation involving these parties, which could cause our operating results to suffer. We initiated a lawsuit against Linear Technology Corporation in February 2006 for unfair business practices, interference with existing and prospective customers and trade libel, as well as a declaration of patent invalidity and non-infringement. In a related case, the International Trade Commission has initiated an investigation and subsequent enforcement action against AATI at the request of Linear Technology. Uncertainty over the outcome of our litigation with Linear Technology may cause our customers or potential customers to elect not to include our products that are the subject of this litigation into the design of their systems. Once a customer’s system designer initially chooses a competitor’s product for a particular electronic system, it becomes significantly more difficult for us to sell our products for use in that electronic system, because changing suppliers can involve significant cost, time, effort and risk for our customers. As a result, our litigation with Linear Technology or any similar future litigation may result in on-going expenses on a quarterly basis. If we are unsuccessful in any such litigation, our business and our ability to compete in foreign markets 19 Table of Contents could be harmed, and we could be enjoined from selling the accused products, either directly or indirectly, which could have a material adverse impact on our net revenue, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See Part II, Item 1 – Legal Proceedings. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights adequately could impair our ability to compete effectively or to defend ourselves from litigation, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements to protect our proprietary technologies and know-how. While we have been issued 106 patents as of December 31, 2010, the rights granted to us may not be meaningful or provide us with any commercial advantage. For example, these patents could be challenged or circumvented by our competitors or be declared invalid or unenforceable in judicial or administrative proceedings. The failure of our patents to adequately protect our technology might make it easier for our competitors to offer similar products or technologies. Our foreign patent protection is generally not as comprehensive as our United States patent protection and may not protect our intellectual property in some countries where our products are sold or may be sold in the future. Even if foreign patents are granted, effective enforcement in foreign countries may not be available. Many United States-based companies have encountered substantial intellectual property infringement in foreign countries, including countries where we sell products. Monitoring unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and costly. It is possible that unauthorized use of our intellectual property may occur without our knowledge. We cannot assure you that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our intellectual property. Our failure to effectively protect our intellectual property could reduce the value of our technology in licensing arrangements or in cross-licensing negotiations, and could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may in the future need to initiate infringement claims or litigation. Litigation, whether we are a plaintiff or a defendant, can be expensive, time-consuming and may divert the efforts of our technical staff and managerial personnel, which could harm our business, whether or not such litigation results in a determination favorable to us. Any acquisitions we make could disrupt our business, result in integration difficulties or fail to realize anticipated benefits, which could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. We may choose to acquire companies, technologies, assets and personnel that are complementary to our business, including for the purpose of expanding our new product design capacity, introducing new design, market or application skills or enhancing and expanding our existing product lines. In October 2006, we acquired Analog Power Semiconductor Corporation and related assets and personnel, primarily located in Shanghai, China. In June 2008, we acquired Elite Micro Devices, located in Shanghai, China. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following: • difficulties in integrating the operations, systems, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired companies; • diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business and the challenges of managing larger and more widespread operations resulting from acquisitions; • difficulties in entering markets in which we may have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors may have stronger market positions; • the potential loss of key employees, customers, distributors, suppliers and other business partners of the companies we acquire following and continuing after announcement of acquisition plans; • improving and expanding our management information systems to accommodate expanded operations; • insufficient revenue to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions; and • addressing unforeseen liabilities of acquired businesses. 20 Table of Contents Acquisitions may also cause us to: • issue capital stock that would dilute our current stockholders’ percentage ownership; • use a substantial portion of our cash resources or incur debt; • assume liabilities; • record goodwill or incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets; and • incur large and immediate write-offs and other related expenses. Any of these factors could prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits of an acquisition, and our failure to realize these benefits could adversely affect our business. In addition, we may not be successful in identifying future acquisition opportunities or in consummating any acquisitions that we may pursue on favorable terms, if at all. Any transactions that we complete may impair stockholder value or otherwise adversely affect our business and the market price of our stock. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions could materially harm our financial condition and operating results. Our operating results, financial condition and cash flows may be adversely impacted by worldwide political and economic uncertainties and specific conditions in the markets we address, including the cyclical nature of and volatility in the semiconductor industry. The semiconductor industry has historically exhibited cyclical behavior which at various times has included significant downturns in customer demand. These conditions have caused significant variations in product orders and production capacity utilization, as well as price erosion. Because a significant portion of our expenses is fixed in the near term or is incurred in advance of anticipated sales, we may not be able to decrease our expenses rapidly enough to offset any unanticipated shortfall in net revenue. If this situation were to occur, it could adversely affect our operating results, cash flow and financial condition. Additionally, general worldwide economic conditions have recently experienced a downturn due to slower economic activity, concerns about inflation and deflation, fears of recession, increased energy costs, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns in the wired and wireless communications markets, recent international conflicts and terrorist and military activity and the impact of natural disasters and public health emergencies. Our operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions and their impact on consumer spending, which has recently deteriorated significantly in many countries and regions, including the United States and Asia, and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. For example, some of the factors that could influence consumer spending include conditions in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, labor and healthcare costs, access to credit, consumer confidence and other factors affecting consumer spending behavior. These and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and on our financial condition and operating results. In addition, these conditions make it extremely difficult for our customers, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and they could cause United States and foreign businesses to slow spending on our products and services, which would delay and lengthen sales cycles. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent economic recovery, worldwide, or in the semiconductor industry. If the economy or markets in which we operate do not continue at their present levels, our business, financial condition and results of operations will likely be materially and adversely affected. We could be adversely affected by violations of the United States’ Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. The United States’ Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with 21 Table of Contents these anti-bribery laws. There can be no assurance that our internal controls and procedures always will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. If we are found to be liable for FCPA violations, we could suffer from criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 