Item 1A. Risk Factors” and other sections of this report, which describe factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Our Company does not undertake, and specifically disclaims, any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of such statements. 11 Readers are urged not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements in order to reflect any event or circumstance that may arise after the date of this report, other than as may be required by applicable law or regulation. Readers are urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made by us in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission which attempt to advise interested parties of the risks and factors that may affect our business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. If one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, our actual results may vary materially from those expected or projected. Risks Related to our Business Set forth below are various risks and uncertainties that could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flow. We have minimal operating history, which raises substantial doubt as to our ability to successfully develop profitable business operations. We have a limited operating history. Our business operations must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered in establishing a business in the oil and natural gas industries. As a result of our recent acquisition of mineral leases we have yet to generate revenues from operations and have been focused on organizational, start-up, market analysis, exploratory drilling and fund raising activities. There is nothing at this time on which to base an assumption that our business operations will prove to be successful or that we will ever be able to operate profitably. Our future operating results will depend on many factors, including: ▪ our ability to raise adequate working capital; ▪ success of our development and exploration; ▪ demand for natural gas and oil; ▪ the level of our competition; ▪ our ability to attract and maintain key management and employees; and ▪ our ability to efficiently explore, develop and produce sufficient quantities of marketable natural gas or oil in a highly competitive and speculative environment while maintaining quality and controlling costs. To achieve profitable operations, we must, alone or with others, successfully execute on the factors stated above, along with continually developing ways to enhance our production efforts, when commenced. Despite our best efforts, we may not be successful in our exploration or development efforts, or obtain required regulatory approvals. There is a possibility that some, or all, of our wells may never produce natural gas or oil. We are highly dependent on Michael Reger, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman and Ryan Gilbertson, Chief Financial Officer. The loss of either of them, upon whose knowledge, leadership and technical expertise we rely, would harm our ability to execute our business plan. Our success depends heavily upon the continued contributions of Michael Reger and Ryan Gilbertson, whose knowledge, leadership and technical expertise would be difficult to replace, and on our ability to retain and attract experienced engineers, geoscientists and other technical and professional staff. If we were to lose their services, our ability to execute our business plan would be harmed and we may be forced to cease operations until such time as we could hire a suitable replacement for them. Mr. Reger and Mr. Gilbertson recently entered into employment agreements with the Company, however, their employment is “at-will”. Between them they control directly or indirectly approximately 23% of our outstanding shares as of March 31, 2008. Our management team does not have extensive experience in public company matters, which could impair our ability to comply with legal and regulatory requirements. Our management team has had limited public company management experience or responsibilities, which could impair our ability to comply with legal and regulatory requirements such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and applicable federal securities laws, including filing required reports and other information required on a timely basis. It may be expensive to implement and effect programs and policies in an effective and timely manner that adequately respond to increased legal, regulatory compliance and reporting requirements imposed by such laws and regulations, and we may not have the resources to do so. Our failure to comply with such laws and regulations could lead to the imposition of fines and penalties and further result in the deterioration of our business. 12 Our lack of diversification will increase the risk of an investment in the Company, and our financial condition and results of operations may deteriorate if we fail to diversify. Our business focus is on the oil and gas industry in a limited number of properties, initially in Montana and North Dakota. Larger companies have the ability to manage their risk by diversification. However, we will lack diversification, in terms of both the nature and geographic scope of our business. As a result, we will likely be impacted more acutely by factors affecting our industry or the regions in which we operate than we would if our business were more diversified, enhancing our risk profile. If we cannot diversify our operations, our financial condition and results of operations could deteriorate. Strategic relationships upon which we may rely are subject to change, which may diminish our ability to conduct our operations. Our ability to successfully acquire additional properties, to discover reserves, to participate in drilling opportunities and to identify and enter into commercial arrangements with customers will depend on developing and maintaining close working relationships with industry participants and on our ability to select and evaluate suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. These realities are subject to change and may impair our ability to grow. To develop our business, we will endeavor to use the business relationships of our management to enter into strategic relationships, which may take the form of joint ventures with other private parties and contractual arrangements with other oil and gas companies, including those that supply equipment and other resources that we will use in our business. We may not be able to establish these strategic relationships, or if established, we may not be able to maintain them. In addition, the dynamics of our relationships with strategic partners may require us to incur expenses or undertake activities we would not otherwise be inclined to in order to fulfill our obligations to these partners or maintain our relationships. If our strategic relationships are not established or maintained, our business prospects may be limited, which could diminish our ability to conduct our operations. Competition in obtaining rights to explore and develop oil and gas reserves and to market our production may impair our business. The oil and gas industry is highly competitive. Other oil and gas companies may seek to acquire oil and gas leases and other properties and services we will need to operate our business in the areas in which we expect to operate. This competition is increasingly intense as prices of oil and natural gas on the commodities markets have risen in recent years. Additionally, other companies engaged in our line of business may compete with us from time to time in obtaining capital from investors. Competitors include larger companies which, in particular, may have access to greater resources, may be more successful in the recruitment and retention of qualified employees and may conduct their own refining and petroleum marketing operations, which may give them a competitive advantage. In addition, actual or potential competitors may be strengthened through the acquisition of additional assets and interests. If we are unable to compete effectively or adequately respond to competitive pressures, this inability may materially adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition. 13 We may be unable to obtain additional capital that we will require to implement our business plan, which could restrict our ability to grow. We expect that our current capital and our other existing resources will be sufficient only to provide a limited amount of working capital, and the revenues generated from our properties in Montana and North Dakota alone may not be sufficient to fund both our continuing operations and our planned growth. We will require additional capital to continue to operate our business beyond the initial phase of our current properties, and to further expand our exploration and development programs to additional properties. We may be unable to obtain additional capital required. Future acquisitions and future exploration, development, production and marketing activities, as well as our administrative requirements (such as salaries, insurance expenses and general overhead expenses, as well as legal compliance costs and accounting expenses) will require a substantial amount of additional capital and cash flow. We may pursue sources of additional capital through various financing transactions or arrangements, including joint venturing of projects, debt financing, equity financing or other means. We may not be successful in locating suitable financing transactions in the time period required or at all, and we may not obtain the capital we require by other means. If we do not succeed in raising additional capital, our resources may not be sufficient to fund our planned expansion of operations going forward. Any additional capital raised through the sale of equity may dilute the ownership percentage of our stockholders. This could also result in a decrease in the fair market value of our equity securities because our assets would be owned by a larger pool of outstanding equity. The terms of securities we issue in future capital transactions may be more favorable to our new investors, and may include preferences, superior voting rights and the issuance of other derivative securities, and issuances of incentive awards under equity employee incentive plans, which may have a further dilutive effect. Our ability to obtain needed financing may be impaired by such factors as the capital markets (both generally and in the oil and gas industry in particular), our status as a new enterprise without a significant demonstrated operating history, the location of our oil and natural gas properties and prices of oil and natural gas on the commodities markets (which will impact the amount of asset-based financing available to us) and/or the loss of key management. Further, if oil and/or natural gas prices on the commodities markets decline, our revenues will likely decrease and such decreased revenues may increase our requirements for capital. If the amount of capital we are able to raise from financing activities, together with our revenues from operations, is not sufficient to satisfy our capital needs (even to the extent that we reduce our operations), we may be required to cease our operations. We may incur substantial costs in pursuing future capital financing, including investment banking fees, legal fees, accounting fees, securities law compliance fees, printing and distribution expenses and other costs. We may also be required to recognize non-cash expenses in connection with certain securities we may issue, such as convertible notes, which may adversely impact our financial condition. We may not be able to effectively manage our growth, which may harm our profitability. Our strategy envisions expanding our business. If we fail to effectively manage our growth, our financial results could be adversely affected. Growth may place a strain on our management systems and resources. We must continue to refine and expand our business capabilities, our systems and processes and our access to financing sources. As we grow, we must continue to hire, train, supervise and manage new employees. We cannot assure that we will be able to: ▪ meet our capital needs; ▪ expand our systems effectively or efficiently or in a timely manner; ▪ allocate our human resources optimally; ▪ identify and hire qualified employees or retain valued employees; or ▪ incorporate effectively the components of any business that we may acquire in our effort to achieve growth. If we are unable to manage our growth, our operations and our financial results could be adversely affected by inefficiency, which could diminish our profitability. 14 Our business may suffer if we do not attract and retain talented personnel. Our success will depend in large measure on the abilities, expertise, judgment, discretion, integrity and good faith of our management and other personnel in conducting the business of the Company. We have a small management team, and the loss of a key individual or inability to attract suitably qualified staff could materially adversely impact our business. Our success depends on the ability of our management and employees to interpret market and geological data correctly and to interpret and respond to economic market and other conditions in order to locate and adopt appropriate investment opportunities, monitor such investments, and ultimately, if required, to successfully divest such investments. Further, no assurance can be given that our key personnel will continue their association or employment with us or that replacement personnel with comparable skills can be found. We have sought to and will continue to ensure that management and any key employees are appropriately compensated; however, their services cannot be guaranteed. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our business may be adversely affected. Our hedging activities could result in financial losses or could reduce our net income, which may adversely affect your investment in our common stock. In order to manage our exposure to price risks in the marketing of our oil and natural gas production, we may enter into oil and natural gas price hedging arrangements with respect to a portion of our expected production. While intended to reduce the effects of volatile oil and natural gas prices, such transactions may limit our potential gains and increase our potential losses if oil and natural gas prices were to rise substantially over the price established by the hedge. In addition, such transactions may expose us to the risk of loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which: ▪ our production is less than expected; ▪ there is a widening of price differentials between delivery points for our production and the delivery point assumed in the hedge arrangement; or ▪ the counterparties to our hedging agreements fail to perform under the contracts. Risks Related To Our Industry Our exploration for oil and gas is risky and may not be commercially successful, and the advanced technologies we use cannot eliminate exploration risk, which could impair our ability to generate revenues from our operations. Our future success will depend on the success of our exploratory drilling program. Oil and gas exploration involves a high degree of risk. These risks are more acute in the early stages of exploration. Our ability to produce revenue and our resulting financial performance are significantly affected by the prices we receive for oil and natural gas produced from wells on our acreage. Especially in recent years, the prices at which oil and natural gas trade in the open market have experienced significant volatility, and will likely continue to fluctuate in the foreseeable future due to a variety of influences including, but not limited to, the following: ▪ domestic and foreign demand for oil and natural gas by both refineries and end users; ▪ the introduction of alternative forms of fuel to replace or compete with oil and natural gas; ▪ domestic and foreign reserves and supply of oil and natural gas; ▪ competitive measures implemented by our competitors and domestic and foreign governmental bodies; ▪ political climates in nations that traditionally produce and export significant quantities of oil and natural gas (including military and other conflicts in the Middle East and surrounding geographic region) and regulations and tariffs imposed by exporting and importing nations; ▪ weather conditions; and ▪ domestic and foreign economic volatility and stability. Oil and natural gas prices have generally increased over the past five years. A reversing of that general trend could significantly impact the price paid for the oil and natural gas we produce, which could significantly limit our ability to acquire additional acreage and pursue development and production efforts on our existing acreage. A significant decrease in oil and natural gas prices could also adversely impact our ability to raise additional capital to pursue future drilling activities. 15 Our expenditures on exploration may not result in new discoveries of oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities. It is difficult to project the costs of implementing an exploratory drilling program due to the inherent uncertainties of drilling in unknown formations, the costs associated with encountering various drilling conditions, such as over-pressured zones and tools lost in the hole, and changes in drilling plans and locations as a result of prior exploratory wells or additional seismic data and interpretations thereof. Even when used and properly interpreted, three-dimensional (3-D) seismic data and visualization techniques only assist geoscientists in identifying subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators. They do not allow the interpreter to know conclusively if hydrocarbons are present or economically producible. In addition, the use of three-dimensional (3-D) seismic data becomes less reliable when used at increasing depths. We could incur losses as a result of expenditures on unsuccessful wells. If exploration costs exceed our estimates, or if our exploration efforts do not produce results which meet our expectations, our exploration efforts may not be commercially successful, which could adversely impact our ability to generate revenues from our operations. We may not be able to develop oil and gas reserves on an economically viable basis, and our reserves and production may decline as a result. If we succeed in discovering oil and/or natural gas reserves, we cannot assure that these reserves will be capable of production levels we project or in sufficient quantities to be commercially viable. On a long-term basis, our viability depends on our ability to find or acquire, develop and commercially produce additional oil and natural gas reserves. Without the addition of reserves through acquisition, exploration or development activities, our reserves and production will decline over time as reserves are produced. Our future reserves will depend not only on our ability to develop then-existing properties, but also on our ability to identify and acquire additional suitable producing properties or prospects, to find markets for the oil and natural gas we develop and to effectively distribute our production into our markets. Future oil and gas exploration may involve unprofitable efforts, not only from dry wells, but from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net revenues to return a profit after drilling, operating and other costs. Completion of a well does not assure a profit on the investment or recovery of drilling, completion and operating costs. In addition, drilling hazards or environmental damage could greatly increase the cost of operations, and various field operating conditions may adversely affect the production from successful wells. These conditions include delays in obtaining governmental approvals or consents, shut-downs of connected wells resulting from extreme weather conditions, problems in storage and distribution and adverse geological and mechanical conditions. While we will endeavor to effectively manage these conditions, we cannot be assured of doing so optimally, and we will not be able to eliminate them completely in any case. Therefore, these conditions could diminish our revenue and cash flow levels and result in the impairment of our oil and natural gas interests. Estimates of oil and natural gas reserves that we make may be inaccurate and our actual revenues may be lower than our financial projections. We will make estimates of oil and natural gas reserves, upon which we will base our financial projections. We will make these reserve estimates using various assumptions, including assumptions as to oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. Some of these assumptions are inherently subjective, and the accuracy of our reserve estimates relies in part on the ability of our management team, engineers and other advisors to make accurate assumptions. Economic factors beyond our control, such as interest rates, will also impact the value of our reserves. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex, and will require us to use significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each property. As a result, our reserve estimates will be inherently imprecise. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves may vary substantially from those we estimate. If actual production results vary substantially from our reserve estimates, this could materially reduce our revenues and result in the impairment of our oil and natural gas interests. 16 Drilling new wells could result in new liabilities, which could endanger our interests in our properties and assets. There are risks associated with the drilling of oil and natural gas wells, including encountering unexpected formations or pressures, premature declines of reservoirs, blow-outs, craterings, sour gas releases, fires and spills, among others. The occurrence of any of these events could significantly reduce our revenues or cause substantial losses, impairing our future operating results. We may become subject to liability for pollution, blow-outs or other hazards. We intend to obtain insurance with respect to these hazards; however, such insurance has limitations on liability that may not be sufficient to cover the full extent of such liabilities. The payment of such liabilities could reduce the funds available to us or could, in an extreme case, result in a total loss of our properties and assets. Moreover, we may not be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates that are considered reasonable. Oil and natural gas production operations are also subject to all the risks typically associated with such operations, including premature decline of reservoirs and the invasion of water into producing formations. Decommissioning costs are unknown and may be substantial. Unplanned costs could divert resources from other projects. We may become responsible for costs associated with abandoning and reclaiming wells, facilities and pipelines which we use for production of oil and natural gas reserves. Abandonment and reclamation of these facilities and the costs associated therewith is often referred to as “decommissioning.” We have not yet determined whether we will establish a cash reserve account for these potential costs in respect of any of our properties or facilities, or if we will satisfy such costs of decommissioning from the proceeds of production in accordance with the practice generally employed in oilfield operations. If decommissioning is required before economic depletion of our properties or if our estimates of the costs of decommissioning exceed the value of the reserves remaining at any particular time to cover such decommissioning costs, we may have to draw on funds from other sources to satisfy such costs. The use of other funds to satisfy such decommissioning costs could impair our ability to focus capital investment in other areas of our business. Our inability to obtain necessary facilities could hamper our operations. Oil and gas exploration and development activities are dependent on the availability of drilling and related equipment, transportation, power and technical support in the particular areas where these activities will be conducted, and our access to these facilities may be limited. To the extent that we conduct our activities in remote areas, needed facilities may not be proximate to our operations, which will increase our expenses. Demand for such limited equipment and other facilities or access restrictions may affect the availability of such equipment to us and may delay exploration and development activities. The quality and reliability of necessary facilities may also be unpredictable and we may be required to make efforts to standardize our facilities, which may entail unanticipated costs and delays. Shortages and/or the unavailability of necessary equipment or other facilities will impair our activities, either by delaying our activities, increasing our costs or otherwise. We may have difficulty distributing our production, which could harm our financial condition. In order to sell the oil and natural gas that we are able to produce, we may have to make arrangements for storage and distribution to the market. We will rely on local infrastructure and the availability of transportation for storage and shipment of our products, but infrastructure development and storage and transportation facilities may be insufficient for our needs at commercially acceptable terms in the localities in which we operate. This could be particularly problematic to the extent that our operations are conducted in remote areas that are difficult to access, such as areas that are distant from shipping and/or pipeline facilities. These factors may affect our ability to explore and develop properties and to store and transport our oil and natural gas production and may increase our expenses. Furthermore, weather conditions or natural disasters, actions by companies doing business in one or more of the areas in which we will operate, or labor disputes may impair the distribution of oil and/or natural gas and in turn diminish our financial condition or ability to maintain our operations. Prices and markets for oil and natural gas are unpredictable and tend to fluctuate significantly, which could reduce profitability, growth and the value of our business. Oil and natural gas are commodities whose prices are determined based on world demand, supply and other factors, all of which are beyond our control. World prices for oil and natural gas have fluctuated widely in recent years, and rose to record levels on a nominal basis in 2006. We expect that prices will fluctuate in the future. Price fluctuations will have a significant impact upon our revenue, the return from our reserves and on our financial condition generally. Price fluctuations for oil and natural gas commodities may also impact the investment market for companies engaged in the oil and gas industry. Prices may not remain at current levels. Future decreases in the prices of oil and natural gas may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, the future results of our operations and quantities of reserves recoverable on an economic basis. 17 Increases in our operating expenses will impact our operating results and financial condition. Exploration, development, production, marketing (including distribution costs) and regulatory compliance costs (including taxes) will substantially impact the net revenues we derive from the oil and natural gas that we produce. These costs are subject to fluctuations and variation in different locales in which we will operate, and we may not be able to predict or control these costs. If these costs exceed our expectations, this may adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, we may not be able to earn net revenue at our predicted levels, which may impact our ability to satisfy our obligations. Penalties we may incur could impair our business. Failure to comply with government regulations could subject us to civil and criminal penalties, could require us to forfeit property rights, and may affect the value of our assets. We may also be required to take corrective actions, such as installing additional equipment or taking other actions, each of which could require us to make substantial capital expenditures. We could also be required to indemnify our employees in connection with any expenses or liabilities that they may incur individually in connection with regulatory action against them. As a result, our future business prospects could deteriorate due to regulatory constraints, and our profitability could be impaired by our obligation to provide such indemnification to our employees. Environmental risks may adversely affect our business. All phases of the oil and gas business present environmental risks and hazards and are subject to environmental regulation pursuant to a variety of federal, state and municipal laws and regulations. Environmental legislation provides for, among other things, restrictions and prohibitions on spills, releases or emissions of various substances produced in association with oil and gas operations. The legislation also requires that wells and facility sites be operated, maintained, abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of applicable regulatory authorities. Compliance with such legislation can require significant expenditures and a breach may result in the imposition of fines and penalties, some of which may be material. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner we expect may result in stricter standards and enforcement, larger fines and liability and potentially increased capital expenditures and operating costs. The discharge of oil, natural gas or other pollutants into the air, soil or water may give rise to liabilities to governments and third parties and may require us to incur costs to remedy such discharge. The application of environmental laws to our business may cause us to curtail our production or increase the costs of our production, development or exploration activities. Our insurance may be inadequate to cover liabilities we may incur. Our involvement in the exploration for and development of oil and gas properties may result in our becoming subject to liability for pollution, blow-outs, property damage, personal injury or other hazards. Although we expect to obtain insurance in accordance with industry standards to address such risks, such insurance has limitations on liability that may not be sufficient to cover the full extent of such liabilities. In addition, such risks may not, in all circumstances, be insurable or, in certain circumstances, we may choose not to obtain insurance to protect against specific risks due to the high premiums associated with such insurance or for other reasons. The payment of such uninsured liabilities would reduce the funds available to us. If we suffer a significant event or occurrence that is not fully insured, or if the insurer of such event is not solvent, we could be required to divert funds from capital investment or other uses towards covering our liability for such events. 18 Our business will suffer if we cannot obtain or maintain necessary licenses. Our operations will require licenses, permits and in some cases renewals of licenses and permits from various governmental authorities. Our ability to obtain, sustain or renew such licenses and permits on acceptable terms is subject to change in regulations and policies and to the discretion of the applicable governments, among other factors. Our inability to obtain, or our loss of or denial of extension of, any of these licenses or permits could hamper our ability to produce revenues from our operations. Challenges to our properties may impact our financial condition. Title to oil and gas interests is often not capable of conclusive determination without incurring substantial expense. While we intend to make appropriate inquiries into the title of properties and other development rights we acquire, title defects may exist. In addition, we may be unable to obtain adequate insurance for title defects, on a commercially reasonable basis or at all. If title defects do exist, it is possible that we may lose all or a portion of our right, title and interests in and to the properties to which the title defects relate. If our property rights are reduced, our ability to conduct our exploration, development and production activities may be impaired. To mitigate tile problems it is common industry practice to obtain a Title Opinion from a qualified oil and gas attorney prior to the drilling operations of a well. We will rely on technology to conduct our business and our technology could become ineffective or obsolete. We rely on technology, including geographic and seismic analysis techniques and economic models, to develop our reserve estimates and to guide our exploration, development and production activities. We will be required to continually enhance and update our technology to maintain its efficacy and to avoid obsolescence. The costs of doing so may be substantial, and may be higher than the costs that we anticipate for technology maintenance and development. If we are unable to maintain the efficacy of our technology, our ability to manage our business and to compete may be impaired. Further, even if we are able to maintain technical effectiveness, our technology may not be the most efficient means of reaching our objectives, in which case we may incur higher operating costs than we would were our technology more efficient. Risks Related to our Common Stock There has been a limited trading market for our common stock. There has been a limited trading market for our common stock on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board. The lack of an active market may impair the ability of our investors to sell their shares of common stock at the time they wish to sell them or at a price that they consider reasonable. The lack of an active market may also reduce the fair market value of the shares of our common stock. An inactive market may also impair our ability to raise capital by selling shares of capital stock and may impair our ability to acquire other companies or technologies by using our common stock as consideration. We have begun trading on the American Stock exchange, which we expect to generally increase liquidity for our stockholders, although no assurances can be given that liquidity will in fact improve. 19 The market price of our common stock is, and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. The market price of our common stock is likely to continue to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: ▪ dilution caused by our issuance of additional shares of common stock and other forms of equity securities, which we expect to make in connection with future capital financings to fund our operations and growth, to attract and retain valuable personnel and in connection with future strategic partnerships with other companies; ▪ announcements of new acquisitions, reserve discoveries or other business initiatives by our competitors; ▪ our ability to take advantage of new acquisitions, reserve discoveries or other business initiatives; ▪ fluctuations in revenue from our oil and gas business as new reserves come to market; ▪ changes in the market for oil and natural gas commodities and/or in the capital markets generally; ▪ changes in the demand for oil and natural gas, including changes resulting from the introduction or expansion of alternative fuels; ▪ quarterly variations in our revenues and operating expenses; ▪ changes in the valuation of similarly situated companies, both in our industry and in other industries; ▪ changes in analysts’ estimates affecting our company, our competitors and/or our industry; ▪ changes in the accounting methods used in or otherwise affecting our industry; ▪ additions and departures of key personnel; ▪ announcements of technological innovations or new products available to the oil and gas industry; ▪ announcements by relevant governments pertaining to incentives for alternative energy development programs; ▪ fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of capital in the capital markets; and ▪ significant sales of our common stock, including sales by selling stockholders following the registration of shares under a prospectus. These and other factors are largely beyond our control, and the impact of these risks, singly or in the aggregate, may result in material adverse changes to the market price of our common stock and/or our results of operations and financial condition. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly, and these fluctuations may cause the price of our common stock to decline. Our operating results will likely vary in the future primarily as the result of fluctuations in our revenues and operating expenses, including the coming to market of oil and natural gas reserves that we are able to discover and develop, expenses that we incur, the prices of oil and natural gas in the commodities markets and other factors. If our results of operations do not meet the expectations of current or potential investors, the price of our common stock may decline. Stockholders will experience dilution upon the exercise of options. As of December 31, 2007, we had authorized the issuance of up to 2,000,000 shares of common stock underlying options that may be granted, of which options for 1,660,000 shares of common stock had already been granted, and of those granted, 660,000 remain outstanding, pursuant to the Company’s 2006 Incentive Stock Option Plan. If the holders of those remaining outstanding options exercise those options, stockholders may experience dilution in the net tangible book value of our common stock. Further, the sale or availability for sale of the underlying shares in the marketplace could depress our stock price. Because our common stock was deemed a low-priced “Penny” stock at times during 2007, an investment in our common stock may be considered high risk and subject to marketability restrictions. Our common stock traded at or below $5.00 at times during calendar year 2007, which qualified our common stock as a “penny stock,” as defined in Rule 3a51-1 under the Securities Exchange Act. At such times as the trading price of our common stock is less than $5.00 per share, trading in the common stock is subject to the penny stock rules of the Securities Exchange Act specified in rules 15g-1 through 15g-10. Those rules require broker-dealers, before effecting transactions in any penny stock, to: § Deliver to the customer, and obtain a written receipt for, a disclosure document; § Disclose certain price information about the stock; § Disclose the amount of compensation received by the broker-dealer or any associated person of the broker-dealer; § Send monthly statements to customers with market and price information about the penny stock; and § In some circumstances, approve the purchaser’s account under certain standards and deliver written statements to the customer with information specified in the rules. There can be no assurance that our common stock will continue to trade above $5.00 per share. Consequently, the penny stock rules may restrict the ability or willingness of broker-dealers to sell the common stock and may affect the ability of holders to sell their common stock in the secondary market and the price at which such holders can sell any such securities. These additional procedures could also limit our ability to raise additional capital in the future. 20 We do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We do not intend to declare dividends for the foreseeable future, as we anticipate that we will reinvest any future earnings in the development and growth of our business. Therefore, investors will not receive any funds unless they sell their common stock, and stockholders may be unable to sell their shares on favorable terms or at all. Investors cannot be assured of a positive return on investment or that they will not lose the entire amount of their investment in our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 