ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors This report contains forward-looking statements regarding our business and expected future performance as well as assumptions underlying or relating to such statements of expectation, all of which are “forward looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We are subject to many risks and uncertainties that may materially affect our business and future performance and cause those forward-looking statements to be inaccurate. Words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “forecasts,” “estimates,” “seeks,” “may result in,” “focused on,” “continue to,” and similar expressions often identify forward-looking statements. In this report, forward-looking statements include, without limitation, the following: • Our expectations and beliefs regarding future conduct and growth of our business; • Our expectations regarding channel partners and the anticipated timing and magnitude of revenue from these partners; • Our expectations regarding sales of the Sammsoft software products we purchased and our ability to source, develop and distribute additional software products; • Our expectations regarding our ability to deliver premium technology services efficiently; • Our ability to hire, train, manage and retain personal technology experts in a home-based model; • Our beliefs and expectations regarding the introduction of new services and products; • Our expectations regarding cash flows and expenses, including cost of goods sold, sales and marketing, research and development efforts, and administrative expenses; • Our assessment of seasonality, mix of revenue, and other trends for our business; • Our expectations regarding the costs and other effects of acquisition and disposition transactions; • Our expectations regarding unit volumes, pricing and other factors in the PC market and the effects of such factors on our business; • Our beliefs regarding the impact of global economic instability on our business; 9 Table of Contents • The assumptions underlying our Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates, including our assumptions regarding revenue recognition; assumptions used to estimate the fair value of share-based compensation; assumptions regarding the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets; and expected accounting for income taxes; and • The expected effects of the adoption of new accounting standards. An investment in our stock involves risk, and we caution investors that forward-looking statements are only predictions based on our current expectations about future events and are not guarantees of future performance. We encourage you to read carefully all information provided in this report and in our other filings with the SEC before deciding to invest in our stock or to maintain or change your investment. Forward-looking statements are based on information as of the filing date of this report, and we undertake no obligation to publicly revise or update any forward-looking statement for any reason. Because forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from our stated expectations. These factors are described below. This list does not include all risks that could affect our business, and if these or any other risks or uncertainties materialize, or if our underlying assumptions prove to be inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and from our expected future results. Our business has not been profitable and may not achieve profitability in future periods. We have not been profitable since 2005. We intend to make significant investments in support of our business, and we expect to continue to sustain losses in 2010. If we fail to achieve revenue growth as a result of these additional investments or if such revenue growth does not result in our achieving profitability, the market price of our common stock will likely decline. We expect to continue to consume cash until we reach higher revenue levels. A sustained period of losses would result in an increased usage of cash to fund our operating activities and a corresponding reduction in our cash balance. Our business has a limited operating history and is based on a relatively new business model. Our Consumer business is a technology-enabled services business launched in 2007 to provide online care for the digital home and microbusiness. Prior to 2007, we operated only our Enterprise business, which we sold in the second quarter of 2009. We are executing a plan to grow our business by providing premium technology services to consumers both through channel partners and directly. We may not be able to offer these services successfully. All of our personal technology experts are home-based, which requires a high degree of coordination and quality control of employees working from diverse and remote locations. We are currently experiencing financial losses in our business and we expect to continue to use significant cash and incur significant costs to support this initiative. These investments, which typically are made in advance of revenue, may not yield increased revenue to offset these expenses. As a result of these factors, the future revenue and income potential of our business is uncertain. Any evaluation of our business and our prospects must be considered in light of these factors and the risks and uncertainties often encountered by companies in our early stage of development. Some of these risks and uncertainties relate to our ability to do the following: • Maintain our current relationships, and develop new relationships, with channel partners and consumers; • Reach consumers directly in a cost-effective fashion; • Hire, train, manage and retain our home-based personal technology experts; • Meet anticipated growth targets; • Manage our business to provide services on an efficient basis in order to achieve profitability; • Successfully introduce new, and adapt our existing, services and products for consumers; 10 Table of Contents • Respond effectively to competition; • Adapt to industry consolidation; • Respond to government regulations relating to our business; • Attract and retain qualified management and employees; and • Manage our expanding operations and implement and improve our operational, financial and management controls. If we are unable to address these risks, our business, results of operations and prospects could suffer. Our quarterly results have in the past, and may in the future, fluctuate significantly. Our quarterly revenue and operating results have in the past and may in the future fluctuate from quarter to quarter. As a result, we believe that quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year comparisons of our revenue and operating results may not be accurate indicators of future performance. Several factors that have contributed or may in the future contribute to fluctuations in our operating results include: • Demand for our services and products; • Our ability to increase the efficiency and capacity of our service delivery organization; • The performance of our channel partners; • Our reliance on a small number of channel partners for a substantial portion of our revenue; • Our ability to attract and retain customers and channel partners; • The rate of expansion of our offerings and our investments therein; • The price and mix of products and services we or our competitors offer; • Changes in the PC market relating to unit volume, pricing and other factors and the effects of such changes on our business; • Instability in the global macroeconomic climate and its effect on our and our channel partners’ operations; • Our ability to adapt to our customers’ needs in a market space defined by frequent technological change; • Seasonal trends resulting from consumer spending patterns; • The amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures in our business; • Diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns and disruption of our ongoing business as a result of acquisitions or divestitures by us; • Potential losses on investments, or other losses from financial instruments we may hold that are exposed to market risk; and • The exercise of judgment by our management in making accounting decisions in accordance with our accounting policies. 11 Table of Contents Our inability to meet future financial performance targets that we announce or that are published by research analysts could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. From time to time, we provide guidance related to our future financial performance. In addition, financial analysts may publish their own expectations of our future financial performance. Because our quarterly revenue and our operating results fluctuate and are difficult to predict, future financial performance is difficult to predict. In the past, we have failed to meet our guidance and our stock price has declined. Generally, the market prices of technology companies have been extremely volatile. Stock prices of many technology companies have often fluctuated in a manner unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. In the past, following periods of market volatility, stockholders have often initiated securities class action litigation relating to the stock trading and price volatility of the technology company in question. Any securities litigation we may become involved in could result in our incurring substantial defense costs and diverting resources and the attention of management from our business. Our Enterprise business historically generated a substantial portion of our revenue. After its sale we are a smaller company, and in order to succeed, we will need to achieve profitability in our Consumer business. In June 2009, we sold our Enterprise business, which has historically been the source of a substantial portion of our revenue. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, revenue from our continuing operations was $17.5 million. In order to succeed, we will need to achieve profitability in our Consumer business. Given that the sole focus of our business is now our Consumer operations, expectations from stockholders and analysts that we produce improved financial results for our Consumer business are heightened as compared to the periods prior to the sale of the Enterprise business, when the diversity of our revenue streams could enable one of our segments to offset weakness in the other segment. Because a small number of customers and channel partners have historically accounted for and may in future periods account for the substantial majority of our revenue, delays of specific programs or losses of certain customers could decrease our revenue substantially. In 2009, one customer, Office Depot, accounted for the substantial majority of our total revenue after giving effect to the sale of our Enterprise business. Although we are implementing and expanding programs with several other channel partners, Office Depot will, at least in the near term, account for a substantial majority of our total revenue. Over the course of 2009, the percentage of revenue attributable to Office Depot has decreased each quarter. We expect the percent of revenue attributable to Office Depot to decline further in 2010 as we expand our service channel partnerships and grow our software business. Our agreement with Office Depot has a limited initial term and provides for a renewal period if agreed to by the parties. Even if the agreement continues to be renewed, however, it does not require Office Depot to do any minimum amount of business with us, and therefore Office Depot could decide at any time to reduce or eliminate its use of our services. Our revenue could decline significantly because of the loss or decline in activity of Office Depot or the delay or loss of a significant program by other channel partners. Additionally, we may not obtain new channel partners or customers. The failure to obtain significant new channel partners or the loss or decline of significant channel partners would have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Further risks associated with the loss or decline in a significant channel partner are detailed in “Our failure to establish and expand successful partnerships to sell our services and products would harm our operating results” below. Our failure to establish and expand successful partnerships to sell our services and products would harm our operating results. Our current business model requires us to establish and maintain relationships with third parties who market and sell our services and products. Failure to establish or maintain third-party relationships in our business, particularly with firms that sell our services and products, could materially and adversely affect the success of our business. We sell to numerous consumers through each of these channel partners, and therefore a delay in the 12 Table of Contents launch or rollout of our services with even one of these channel partners could cause us to miss revenue targets. The process of establishing a relationship with a channel partner can be complex and time consuming, and we must pass multiple levels of review in order to be selected. If we are unable to establish a sufficient number of new channel partners on a timely basis our sales will suffer. There is also the risk that, once established, our programs with these channel partners may take longer than we expect to produce revenue or may not produce revenue at all. One or more of our key channel partners, including Office Depot, may also discontinue selling our services, offer them only on a limited basis or devote insufficient time and attention to promoting them to their customers. Some of our partners may prefer not to work with us if we also partner with their competitors. If any of these key channel partners merge with a competitor, all of these risks could be exacerbated. Each of these risks could reduce our sales and significantly harm our operating results. If we fail to hire, train and manage our personal technology experts in a manner that provides an adequate level of support for our customers, our reputation and financial performance could be harmed. Our business depends in part on our ability to attract, manage and retain our personal technology experts in order to satisfy demand for our services. If we are unable to hire, train and manage adequate numbers of competent personal technology experts, our service levels could decline, which could harm our reputation, cause us to lose customers and channel partners and adversely affect our financial performance. Although our service delivery and communications infrastructure enables us to monitor and manage these personal technology experts remotely, because they are home-based and geographically dispersed, we could experience difficulties meeting services levels. In addition, any problems we encounter retaining personal technology experts could seriously jeopardize our service delivery operations and our revenue. From time to time, we enter into relationships with third parties to provide on-site services for certain customers. We may be less able to manage the quality of services provided by third-party onsite service providers as directly as we would our own employees. In addition, providing these services may be more costly. We also face the risk that disruptions or delays in these third parties’ communications and information technology infrastructure could cause lengthy interruptions in the availability of our services. Any of these risks could harm our operating results. Disruptions in our information technology and service delivery infrastructure and operations, including interruptions or delays in service from our third-party web hosting provider, could impair the delivery of our services and harm our business. We depend on the continuing operation of our information technology and communication systems and those of our external service providers. Any damage to or failure of those systems could result in interruptions in our service, which could reduce our revenues and damage our reputation. The technology we use to serve customers is hosted at a third-party facility located in the United States. This facility is operated by a publicly held company specializing in operating such facilities, and we do not control the operation of this facility. As it briefly did recently, this facility may experience unplanned outages and other technical difficulties, and it is vulnerable to damage or interruption from fires, floods, earthquakes, telecommunications and connectivity failures, power failures, and similar events. This facility is also subject to risks from vandalism, break-ins, intrusion, and other malicious attacks. Despite substantial precautions taken, such as disaster recovery planning and back-up procedures, a natural disaster, act of terrorism or other unanticipated problem could cause a loss of information and data and lengthy interruptions in the availability of our services and hosted solutions offerings, as our backup systems may not be able to meet our needs for an extended period of time. We rely on hosted systems maintained by third-party providers to deliver technology services to consumers, including taking customer orders, handling telecommunications for customer calls, and tracking sales and service delivery. Any interruption or failure of our internal or external systems could prevent us or our service providers from accepting orders and delivering services, or cause company and consumer data to be unintentionally disclosed. Our continuing efforts to upgrade and enhance the security and reliability of our information technology and communications infrastructure could be very costly, and we may have to expend significant resources to remedy problems such as a security breach or service interruption. Interruptions in our services resulting from labor 13 Table of Contents disputes, telephone or internet failures, power or service outages, natural disasters or other events, or a security breach could reduce our revenue, increase our costs, cause customers and channel partners to fail to renew or to terminate their use of our offerings, and harm our reputation and our ability to attract new customers. Changes to the cost of online advertising may negatively impact our ability to acquire customers. Our software revenue stream is highly dependent on obtaining advertising placements in a cost-effective manner. Periodically a disruptive trend will impact the online advertising space, significantly increasing the cost of online advertising and therefore compromising our ability to purchase advertisements. If such a trend were to occur, our costs for advertising may increase beyond our forecasts, and our operating results would be negatively impacted. We must compete successfully in the markets in which we operate or our business will suffer. We compete in markets that are highly competitive, subject to rapid change and significantly affected by new service introductions and other market activities of industry participants. We compete with a number of companies in the market for online technology services and software products. In addition, our channel partners may develop similar offerings internally. The markets for our services and software products are still rapidly evolving, and we may not be able to compete successfully against current and potential competitors. Our ability to expand our business will depend on our ability to maintain our technological advantage, introduce timely enhanced products to meet growing support needs, deliver on-going value to our customers and scale our business. Competition in our markets could reduce our market share or require us to reduce the price of products and services, which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. The competitors in our markets for services and software can have some or all of the following comparative advantages: longer operating histories; greater economies of scale; greater financial resources; greater engineering and technical resources; greater sales and marketing resources; stronger strategic alliances and distribution channels; products with different functions and feature sets; and greater brand recognition than we have. We expect new competitors to continue to enter our services market given its relatively early stage, and we expect our software market to remain competitive. Our future service and product offerings may not achieve market acceptance. If we fail to develop enhanced versions of our services and products in a timely manner or to provide services and products that achieve rapid and broad market acceptance, we may not maintain or expand our market share. We may fail to identify new service and product opportunities for our current market or new markets that we enter in the future. In addition, our existing services and products may become obsolete if we fail to introduce new services and products that meet new customer demands or support new standards. While we are developing new services and products, there can be no assurance that they will gain market acceptance or generate material revenue for us. We have limited control over factors that affect market acceptance of our services and products, including the willingness of channel partners to offer our services and products and customer preferences for competitors’ services, products and delivery models. We rely on a third party to develop certain of our Sammsoft software products. If our relationship with that third party were to deteriorate, or if the third party were unable to develop innovative and saleable products, we could be forced to identify a new developer and our future revenue could suffer. We may make acquisitions that may not prove successful. We have made acquisitions in the past and may make additional acquisitions in the future. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates at prices we consider appropriate. If we do identify an appropriate 14 Table of Contents acquisition candidate, we may not be able to successfully negotiate the terms of the acquisition. Our management may not be able to effectively implement our acquisition program and internal growth strategy simultaneously. The integration of acquisitions involves a number of risks and presents financial, managerial and operational challenges. We may have difficulty, and may incur unanticipated expenses related to, integrating management and personnel from these acquired entities with our management and personnel. Our failure to identify, consummate or integrate suitable acquisitions could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We cannot readily predict the timing, size or success of our future acquisitions. Even successful acquisitions could have the effect of reducing our cash balances. Acquisitions and divestitures could involve a number of other potential risks to our business, including the following, any of which could harm our business results: • Unanticipated costs and liabilities and unforeseen accounting charges or fluctuations; • Delays and difficulties in delivery of services and products; • Failure to effectively integrate or separate management information systems, personnel, research and development, marketing, sales and support operations; • Loss of key employees; • Economic dilution to gross and operating profit; • Diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns and disruption of our ongoing business; • Difficulty in maintaining controls and procedures; • Uncertainty on the part of our existing customers about our ability to operate after a transaction; • Loss of customers; • Loss of partnerships; • Declines in revenue and increases in losses; • Failure to realize the potential financial or strategic benefits of the acquisition or divestiture; and • Failure to successfully further develop the combined or remaining technology, resulting in the impairment of amounts recorded as goodwill or other intangible assets. We may realize losses on our investments in auction-rate securities or be unable to liquidate these investments at desired times in desired amounts. At December 31, 2009, we had $22.7 million, fair value, of auction-rate securities (“ARS”). Historically, our ARS were highly liquid, and used a Dutch auction process that resets the applicable interest rate at predetermined intervals, typically every 28 to 35 days, to provide liquidity at par. However, as a result of disruption in the global credit and capital markets, the auctions for all of our ARS failed beginning in February 2008 when sell orders exceeded buy orders. Accordingly, we were unable to sell any of our ARS. Of the $24.1 million, par value, of ARS as of December 31, 2009, approximately $20.5 million is held by UBS and has been classified as trading securities because of the ARS put option described below. Accordingly, during the year of 2009 the realized loss on the ARS put option was fully offset with the realized gain on the UBS ARS. In November 2008, we accepted an offer from UBS, entitling UBS, at any time during a two-year period from June 30, 2010 through July 2, 2012, to buy our ARS originally purchased from UBS at par value. In accepting the offer, we granted UBS the authority to sell or auction the ARS at par at any time up until the expiration date of the offer and released UBS from any claims relating to the marketing and sale of ARS. As part of this offer, we not only received a guarantee from UBS to purchase our UBS ARS holdings at par value, but also the right to a loan from UBS at no net cost to us for up to the amount of the par value of our eligible ARS holdings. Prior to any sale of our ARS, ARS will continue to accrue and pay interest as determined by the auction process or the terms specified in the ARS if the auction process fails. UBS’s obligations under the offer are not 15 Table of Contents secured by its assets and do not require UBS to obtain any financing to support its performance obligations under the offer. UBS has disclaimed any assurance that it will have sufficient financial resources to satisfy its obligations under the offer. If UBS has insufficient funding to buy back the ARS and the auction process continues to fail, then we may incur further losses on the carrying value of the ARS and we may not be able to liquidate them. Under applicable accounting rules we must re-value our UBS ARS and ARS put option each reporting period. This means that changes in their value will be recorded as interest income (expense) and other, net, in our consolidated statement of operations. In any period, a change in value of our ARS put option may be offset, at least in part, by a corresponding change in the value of our ARS or vice versa. The remaining ARS were held by another investment advisor who has not made an offer similar to UBS. Accordingly, we have continued to classify the ARS issued by this adviser as available-for-sale securities. The unrealized loss on these ARS as of December 31, 2009 has been recorded in other comprehensive income. If market conditions deteriorate further, we may be required to record additional unrealized losses in other comprehensive income or as impairment charges. We will not be able to liquidate these investments unless the issuer calls the security, a successful auction occurs, a buyer is found outside of the auction process, or the security matures and the issuer is able to meet its obligations pursuant to such security. Our systems collect, access, use, and store personal customer information and enable customer transactions, which poses security risks, requires us to invest significant resources to prevent or correct problems caused by security breaches, and may harm our business. A fundamental requirement for online communications, transactions and support is the secure collection, storage and transmission of confidential information. Our systems collect and store confidential and/or personal information of our individual customers as well as our channel partners and their customers users, including credit card information, and our employees and contractors may access and use that information in the course of providing services. In addition, we collect and retain personal information of our employees in the ordinary course of our business. We and our third-party contractors use commercially available technologies to secure this information. Despite these measures, third parties may attempt to breach the security of our data or that of our customers. In addition, errors in the storage or transmission of data could breach the security of that information. We may be liable to our customers for any breach in security and any breach could subject us to governmental or administrative proceedings or monetary penalties, damage our relationships with channel partners and harm our business and reputation. Also, computers are vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, which could lead to interruptions, delays or loss of data. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to comply with mandatory privacy and security standards required by law, industry standard, or contract, and to further protect against security breaches or to correct problems caused by any security breach. We are exposed to risks associated with credit card and payment fraud and with credit card processing. Certain of our customers use credit cards to pay for our services and products. We may suffer losses as a result of orders placed with fraudulent credit cards or other payment data. Our failure to detect or control payment fraud could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We are also subject to payment card association operating standards and requirements, as in effect from time to time. Compliance with those standards requires us to invest in network and systems infrastructure and processes. Failure to comply with these rules or requirements may subject us to fines, potential contractual liabilities, and other costs, resulting in harm to our business and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents Privacy concerns and laws or other domestic or foreign regulations may require us to incur significant costs and may reduce the effectiveness of our solutions, and our failure to comply with those laws or regulations may harm our business and cause us to lose customers. Our software contains features that allow our personal technology experts to access, control, monitor or collect information from computers running our software. Federal, state and foreign government bodies and agencies, however, have adopted or are considering adopting laws and regulations restricting or otherwise regulating the collection, use and disclosure of personal information obtained from consumers and individuals. Those regulations could require costly compliance measures, could reduce the efficiency of our operations, or could require us to modify or cease to provide our systems or services. Liability for violation of, costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by such laws and regulations may limit the use and adoption of our services and reduce overall demand for them. Even the perception of privacy concerns, whether or not valid, may harm our reputation and inhibit adoption of our solutions by current and future customers. In addition, we may face claims about invasion of privacy or inappropriate disclosure, use, storage, or loss of information obtained from our customers. Any imposition of liability could harm our reputation, cause us to lose customers and cause our operating results to suffer. We rely on third-party technologies and our inability to use or integrate third-party technologies could delay service development and could harm our business. We license technologies from third parties which are integrated into our services. Our use of technologies licensed from third parties poses certain risks. Some of the third-party technologies we license may be provided under “open source” licenses, which may have terms that require us to make generally available our modifications or derivative works based on such open source code. Our inability to obtain or integrate third-party technologies with our own technology could delay service development until equivalent compatible technology can be identified, licensed and integrated. These third-party technologies may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We may fail to successfully integrate any licensed technology into our solutions or services, which would harm our business and operating results. Third-party licenses also expose us to increased risks that include: • Risks of product malfunction after new technology is integrated; • Risks that we may be unable to obtain or continue to obtain support, maintenance and updates from the technology supplier; • The diversion of resources from the development of our own proprietary technology; and • Our inability to generate revenue from new technology sufficient to offset associated acquisition and maintenance costs. We rely upon intellectual property laws to protect our proprietary rights, and if these rights are not sufficiently protected or we are not able to obtain sufficient protection for our technology, it could harm our ability to compete and to generate revenue. We rely on a combination of laws, such as those applicable to patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, and contractual restrictions, such as confidentiality agreements and licenses, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. Our ability to compete and grow our business could suffer if these rights are not adequately protected. Our proprietary rights may not be adequately protected because: • Laws and contractual restrictions may not adequately prevent infringement of our proprietary rights and misappropriation of our technologies or deter others from developing similar technologies; and • Policing infringement of our patents, trademarks and copyrights, misappropriation of our trade secrets, and unauthorized use of our products is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and we may be unable to determine the existence or extent of this infringement or unauthorized use. 17 Table of Contents Intellectual property litigation is expensive and time-consuming and could divert management’s attention from our business. The outcome of any litigation is uncertain and could significantly impact our financial results. Also, the laws of other countries in which we market our products may offer little or no protection of our proprietary technologies. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technologies could enable third parties to benefit from our technologies without paying us for them, which would harm our competitive position and market share. Our success and ability to compete depend to a significant degree upon the protection of our solutions and other proprietary technology. It is possible that: • We may not be issued patents we may seek to protect our technology; • Competitors may independently develop similar technologies or design around any of our patents; • Patents issued to us may not be broad enough to protect our proprietary rights; and • Our issued patents could be successfully challenged. We may face intellectual property infringement claims that could be costly to defend and result in our loss of significant rights. Our business relies upon the use and licensing of technology. Other parties may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us or our customers, and our products may infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties. For example, our products may infringe patents issued to third parties. In addition, as is increasingly common in the technology sector, we may be confronted with the aggressive enforcement of patents by companies whose primary business activity is to acquire patents for the purpose of offensively asserting them against other companies. From time to time, we have received allegations of intellectual property infringement, and we may receive more claims in the future. We may also be required to pursue litigation to protect our intellectual property rights. Intellectual property litigation is expensive and time-consuming and could divert management’s attention from our business. The outcome of any litigation is uncertain and could significantly impact our financial results. If there is a successful claim of infringement, we may be required to develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or license agreements, which may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Our failure to develop non-infringing technologies or license proprietary rights on a timely basis would harm our business. We are a small public company with a large cash balance relative to our size. We are a publicly traded company and are subject to SEC and Nasdaq rules and regulations, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. While all public companies face the costs and burdens associated with being publicly traded, given the size of our business, the costs and burden of being a public company will be material. We had approximately $84.8 million in cash, cash equivalents, investments and the ARS put option as of December 31, 2009. In the past our market capitalization has been lower than our cash balance. If that were to occur again, we may be a take-over target in the future. This might cause distractions for our management and our board of directors and might otherwise prevent us from executing on our strategy for the business to build long term stockholder value. The Asset Purchase Agreement for our Enterprise business may expose us to contingent liabilities. Under the Asset Purchase Agreement we entered into with Consona Corporation (“Consona”) in connection with the sale of our Enterprise business completed in June 2009, we agreed to indemnify Consona for breaches or violations of any representation, warranty, covenant or agreement made by us in the Asset Purchase Agreement, for pre-closing and other liabilities related to the Enterprise business, and for other matters, subject to certain limitations. Significant indemnification claims by Consona could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. 18 Table of Contents We have recorded long-lived assets, and our results of operations would be adversely affected if their value becomes impaired. Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets were recorded in part due to our acquisition of substantially all of the assets and liabilities of YourTechOnline.com (“YTO”) in May 2008 and our acquisition of substantially all of the assets of Xeriton, Inc. (“Xeriton”) in December 2009. We also have certain intangible assets with indefinite lives. We assess the impairment of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets annually or more often if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We assess the impairment of acquired product rights and other finite lived intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that its carrying amount may not be recoverable. Our results of operations would be adversely affected if impairment of our goodwill or intangible assets occurred. Changes in the market for PCs and other electronic products could adversely affect our business. Reductions in unit volumes of PCs or other devices sold, or in the prices of such devices, could adversely affect our business. We offer both services that are attached to the sales of new PCs and other devices and services designed to fix existing PCs and other devices. Declines in the unit volumes sold of these devices or declines in the pricing of such devices could adversely affect demand for our services and/or our revenue mix, either of which would harm our operating results. Economic instability may harm our operating results and the financial condition of our business. As has been widely reported, over the past eighteen months the global economy has been experiencing extreme disruption, including, among other things, higher mortgage delinquencies, increased unemployment, decreased consumer spending, highly volatile securities markets, diminished liquidity and credit availability, currency fluctuation and downgrades and declining valuations of certain investments. These economic developments potentially affect our business in several ways. Consumers may be less willing to pay for our services, our channel partners and prospects may be unable to obtain financing for major commitments and operations, they may reduce their spending or delay or cancel programs that include our offerings and they may be unable to pay us in a timely fashion or at all. While we monitor these situations carefully and attempt to take appropriate measures to protect ourselves by recognizing revenue upon collection of accounts from channel partners we deem to have credit risks and upon sell-through by resellers, it is possible that we may have to write down or write off doubtful accounts. Such write-downs or write-offs would negatively affect our operating results for the period in which they occur and, if large enough, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Our business, including our investment portfolio, may be harmed by general decreases in economic activity, including decreases in business and consumer spending and uncertainty due to economic disruptions and government intervention in the financial markets. We cannot predict the duration and severity of the current disruption in the macroeconomic climate and market conditions, and these conditions may harm our operating results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 