Item 1A. Risk Factors Relating to Our BusinessCrude oil prices and refining margins significantly impact our cash flow and have fluctuated substantially in the past. Our cash flow from operations is primarily dependent upon producing and selling refined products at margins that are high enough to cover our fixed and variable expenses. In recent years, crude oil costs and crack spreads (the difference between refined product sales prices and crude oil prices) have fluctuated substantially. Factors that may affect crude oil costs and refined product prices include: · overall demand for crude oil and refined products; · general economic conditions; · the level of foreign and domestic production of crude oil and refined products; · the availability of imports of crude oil and refined products; · the marketing of alternative and competing fuels; · the extent of government regulation; · global market dynamics; · product pipeline capacity; · local market conditions; and · the level of operations of competing refineries. Crude oil supply contracts are generally short-term contracts with price terms that change as market prices change. Our crude oil requirements are supplied from sources that include: · major oil companies; · crude oil marketing companies; · large independent producers; and · smaller local producers. The price at which we can sell gasoline and other refined products is strongly influenced by the price of crude oil. Generally, an increase or decrease in the price of crude oil results in a corresponding increase or decrease in the price of gasoline and other refined products. However, if crude oil prices increase significantly, our operating margins would fall unless we could pass along these price increases to our customers. Our Refineries maintain inventories of crude oil, intermediate products and refined products, the value of each being subject to fluctuations in market prices. Our inventories of crude oil, unfinished products and finished products are recorded at the lower of cost on a first-in, first-out (“FIFO”) basis or market prices. As a result, a rapid and significant increase or decrease in the market prices for crude oil or refined products could have a significant short-term impact on our earnings and cash flow. Our profitability is affected by crude oil differentials, which may decline and accordingly decrease our profitability. The light/heavy crude oil differentials that we report are the average differential between the benchmark West Texas Intermediate (“WTI”) crude oil priced on the New York Mercantile Exchange and the heavy crude oil priced as delivered to our Cheyenne Refinery or El Dorado Refinery, respectively. The WTI/WTS (sweet/sour) crude oil differential is the average differential between benchmark WTI crude oil priced on the New York Mercantile Exchange and West Texas sour crude oil priced at Midland, Texas. Our profitability at our Cheyenne Refinery is affected by the light/heavy crude oil differential, and our profitability at our El Dorado Refinery is affected by the WTI/WTS crude oil differential. Starting in March 2006, when our El Dorado Refinery began receiving heavy Canadian crude oil through the Spearhead Pipeline, its profitability also began benefiting from the light/heavy crude oil differential. We typically prefer to refine heavy sour crude oil at the Cheyenne Refinery and intermediate sour crude oil at the El Dorado Refinery because these crudes provide a higher refining margin than light or sweet crude oil does. Accordingly, any reduction of these crude oil differentials will reduce our profitability. The Cheyenne Refinery light/heavy crude oil differential averaged $17.15 per barrel in the year ended December 31, 2008, compared to $18.95 per barrel in the same period in 2007. The El Dorado Refinery light/heavy crude oil differential averaged $17.85 per barrel in the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to $21.00 per barrel in 2007. The WTI/WTS crude oil differential averaged $3.92 per barrel in the year ended December 31, 2008, compared to $5.02 per barrel in the same period in 2007. Crude oil prices were historically high during the first seven months of 2008, contributing to higher light/heavy crude oil differentials and WTI/WTS crude oil differentials. Crude oil prices dropped dramatically during the latter part of 2008, which resulted in significant narrowing of the light/heavy crude oil differentials and WTI/WTS crude oil differentials. Our risk management activities may generate substantial losses and limit potential gains. In order to hedge and limit potential financial losses on certain of our inventories, we from time to time enter into derivative contracts to make forward sales or purchases of crude oil, refined products, natural gas and other commodities. We may also use options or swaps to accomplish similar objectives. Our inventory hedging strategies generally produce losses when hedged crude oil or refined products increase in value. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we incurred a pre-tax hedging gain of $146.5 million recorded in “Other revenues” in the Consolidated Statements of Income. Offsetting the benefit of our hedges is the economic loss realized when we liquidate inventory which had been hedged. The value of the hedged inventory generally moves in an opposite direction to the value of the hedge contract. However, due to mark to market accounting requirements and cash margin requirements of commodities exchanges and various counterparties, there may be timing differences between when hedging losses are incurred and when the related physical inventories are sold. In certain instances, these derivative contracts are accounted for as hedges, but there is potential risk that these hedges may not be considered effective from an accounting perspective and would be marked to market in our financial statements. To the extent we use progressively more Canadian crude oil at our Refineries, both our total crude oil inventories and the amount of hedged inventories are likely to increase in future periods. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” in Part II, Item 7A. Instability and volatility in the financial markets could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The financial markets have recently experienced substantial and unprecedented volatility as a result of dislocations in the credit markets. Market disruptions such as those currently being experienced in the United States and abroad may increase our cost of borrowing or adversely affect our ability to access sources of liquidity upon which we may rely to finance our operations and satisfy our obligations as they become due, and capital may not be available on terms that are reasonably acceptable to us, or at all. These disruptions may include turmoil in the financial services industry, including substantial uncertainty surrounding particular lending institutions with which we do business, reduction in available trade credit due to counterparties liquidity concerns, more strict lending requirements, unprecedented volatility in the markets where our outstanding securities trade, and general economic downturns in the areas where we do business. In addition, a general economic slowdown or the lack of liquidity may result in contractual counterparties with which we do business being unable to satisfy their obligations to us in a timely manner, or at all. We maintain significant amounts of cash and cash equivalents at several financial institutions that are in excess of federally insured limits. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we recorded a loss of $499,000 on money market funds that had investments in Lehman Brothers, which filed for bankruptcy. Given the current instability of financial institutions, we may experience further losses on our cash and cash equivalents. External factors beyond our control can cause fluctuations in demand for our products, prices and margins, which may negatively affect income and cash flow. Among these factors is the demand for crude oil and refined products, which is largely driven by the conditions of local and worldwide economies as well as by weather patterns and the taxation of these products relative to other energy sources. Governmental regulations and policies, particularly in the areas of taxation, energy and the environment, also have a significant impact on our activities. Operating results can be affected by these industry factors, by competition in the particular geographic areas that we serve. The demand for crude oil and refined products can also be reduced due to a local or national recession or other adverse economic condition that results in lower spending by businesses and consumers on gasoline and diesel fuel, a shift by consumers to more fuel-efficient vehicles or alternative fuel vehicles (such as ethanol or wider adoption of gas/electric hybrid vehicles), or an increase in vehicle fuel economy, whether as a result of technological advances by manufacturers, legislation mandating or encouraging higher fuel economy or the use of alternative fuel. In addition, our profitability depends largely on the spread between market prices for refined petroleum products and crude oil prices. This margin is continually changing and may fluctuate significantly from time to time. Crude oil and refined products are commodities whose price levels are determined by market forces beyond our control. Due to the seasonality of refined products markets and refinery maintenance schedules, results of operations for any particular quarter of a fiscal year are not necessarily indicative of results for the full year. In general, prices for refined products are influenced by the price of crude oil. Although an increase or decrease in the price of crude oil may result in a similar increase or decrease in prices for refined products, there may be a time lag in the realization of the similar increase or decrease in prices for refined products. The effect of changes in crude oil prices on operating results therefore depends in part on how quickly refined product prices adjust to reflect these changes. A substantial or prolonged increase in crude oil prices without a corresponding increase in refined product prices, a substantial or prolonged decrease in refined product prices without a corresponding decrease in crude oil prices, or a substantial or prolonged decrease in demand for refined products could have a significant negative effect on our results of operations and cash flows. We are dependent on others to supply us with substantial quantities of raw materials. Our business involves converting crude oil and other refinery charges into liquid fuels. We own no crude oil or natural gas reserves and depend on others to supply these feedstocks to our Refineries. We use large quantities of natural gas and electricity to provide heat and mechanical energy required by our processing units. Disruption to our supply of crude oil, natural gas or electricity, or the continued volatility in the costs thereof, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition, our investment in inventory is affected by the general level of crude oil prices, and significant increases in crude oil prices could result in substantial working capital requirements to maintain inventory volumes. Our Refineries face operating hazards, and the potential limits on insurance coverage could expose us to significant liability costs. Our operations could be subject to significant interruption, and our profitability could be impacted if either of our Refineries experienced a major accident or fire, was damaged by severe weather or other natural disaster, or was otherwise forced to curtail its operations or shut down. If a crude oil pipeline that supplies crude oil to our Refineries became inoperative, crude oil would have to be supplied to our Refineries through an alternative pipeline or from additional tank truck deliveries to the Refineries. Alternative supply arrangements could require additional capital expenditures, hurt our business and profitability and cause us to operate the affected Refinery at less than full capacity until pipeline access was restored or crude oil transportation was fully replaced. In addition, a major accident, fire or other event could damage our Refineries or the environment or cause personal injuries. If either of our Refineries experiences a major accident or fire or other event or an interruption in supply or operations, our business could be materially adversely affected if the damage or liability exceeds the amounts of business interruption, property, terrorism and other insurance that we maintain against these risks. Our Refineries consist of many processing units, a number of which have been in operation for many years. One or more of the units may require additional unscheduled down time for unanticipated maintenance or repairs that are more frequent than our scheduled turnaround for such units. Scheduled and unscheduled maintenance could reduce our revenues during the period of time that our units are not operating. We face substantial competition from other refining companies, and greater competition in the markets where we sell refined products could adversely affect our sales and profitability. The refining industry is highly competitive. Many of our competitors are large, integrated, major or independent oil companies that, because of their more diverse operations, larger refineries and stronger capitalization, may be better positioned than we are to withstand volatile industry conditions, including shortages or excesses of crude oil or refined products or intense price competition at the wholesale level. Many of these competitors have financial and other resources substantially greater than ours. We are not engaged in the petroleum exploration and production business and therefore do not produce any of our crude oil feedstocks. We do not have a retail business and therefore are dependent upon others for outlets for our refined products. Certain of our competitors, however, obtain a portion of their feedstocks from company-owned production and have retail outlets. Competitors that have their own crude oil production or extensive retail outlets, with brand-name recognition, are at times able to offset losses from refining operations with profits from producing or retailing operations, and may be better positioned to withstand periods of depressed refining margins or feedstock shortages. In addition, we compete with other industries, such as wind, solar and hydropower, that provide alternative means to satisfy the energy and fuel requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual consumers. If we are unable to compete effectively with these competitors, both within and outside our industry, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations involve environmental risks that may require us to make substantial capital expenditures to remain in compliance or that could give rise to material liabilities. Our results of operations may be affected by increased costs of complying with the extensive environmental laws to which our business is subject and from any possible contamination of our facilities as a result of accidental spills, discharges or other releases of petroleum or hazardous substances. Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental and health and safety laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the emission or discharge of pollutants into the air and water, product specifications and the generation, treatment, storage, transportation, disposal or remediation of solid and hazardous waste and materials. Environmental laws and regulations that affect the operations, processes and margins for our refined products are extensive and have become progressively more stringent. Additional legislation or regulatory requirements or administrative policies could be imposed with respect to our products or activities. Compliance with more stringent laws or regulations or more vigorous enforcement policies of the regulatory agencies could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations and could require us to make substantial expenditures. Any noncompliance with these laws and regulations could subject us to material administrative, civil or criminal penalties or other liabilities. For examples of existing and potential future regulations and their possible effects on us, please see “Environmental” in Note 12 in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.” Our business is inherently subject to accidental spills, discharges or other releases of petroleum or hazardous substances. Past or future spills related to any of our operations, including our Refineries, pipelines or product terminals, could give rise to liability (including potential cleanup responsibility) to governmental entities or private parties under federal, state or local environmental laws, as well as under common law. This could involve contamination associated with facilities that we currently own or operate, facilities that we formerly owned or operated and facilities to which we sent wastes or by-product for treatment or disposal and other contamination. Accidental discharges could occur in the future, future action may be taken in connection with past discharges, governmental agencies may assess penalties against us in connection with past or future contamination and third parties may assert claims against us for damages allegedly arising out of any past or future contamination. The potential penalties and clean-up costs for past or future releases or spills, the failure of prior owners of our facilities to complete their clean-up obligations, the liability to third parties for damage to their property, or the need to address newly-discovered information or conditions that may require a response could be significant, and the payment of these amounts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations are subject to various laws and regulations relating to occupational health and safety, which could give rise to increased costs and material liabilities. The nature of our business may result from time to time in industrial accidents. Our operations are subject to various laws and regulations relating to occupational health and safety. Continued efforts to comply with applicable health and safety laws and regulations, or a finding of non-compliance with current regulations, could result in additional capital expenditures or operating expenses, as well as fines and penalties. We could incur substantial costs or disruptions in our business if we cannot obtain or maintain necessary permits and authorizations. Our operations require numerous permits and authorizations under various laws and regulations, including environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. These authorizations and permits are subject to revocation, renewal or modification and can require operational changes, which may involve significant costs, to limit impacts or potential impacts on the environment and/or health and safety. A violation of these authorization or permit conditions or other legal or regulatory requirements could result in substantial fines, criminal sanctions, permit revocations, injunctions and/or refinery shutdowns. In addition, major modifications of our operations could require changes to our existing permits or expensive upgrades to our existing pollution control equipment, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Hurricanes along the Gulf Coast could disrupt our supply of crude oil and our ability to complete capital investment projects in a timely manner. In 2005 and 2008, tropical hurricanes and related storm activity, such as windstorms, storm surges, floods and tornadoes, caused extensive and catastrophic physical damage in and to coastal and inland areas located in the Gulf Coast region of the United States (parts of Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama) and certain other parts of the southeastern parts of the United States. Some of the materials we use for our capital projects are fabricated at facilities located along the Gulf Coast. Should other storms of this nature occur in the future, it is possible that the storms and their collateral effects could result in delays or cost increases for our capital investment projects. In addition, supplies of crude oil to our El Dorado Refinery are sometimes shipped from Gulf Coast production or terminaling facilities. This crude oil supply source could be potentially threatened in the event of future catastrophic damage to such facilities. We may have labor relations difficulties with some of our employees represented by unions. Approximately 56 percent of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements at December 31, 2008. Our El Dorado Refinery union contract expires in 2012 and our Cheyenne Refinery union contracts expire by July 2009, and there is no assurance that we will be able to enter into new contracts on terms acceptable to us or at all. A failure to do so may increase our costs or result in an interruption of our business. See Item 1 “Business-Employees.” In addition, employees may conduct a strike at some time in the future, which may adversely affect our operations. Terrorist attacks and threats or actual war may negatively impact our business. Terrorist attacks in the United States and the war in Iraq, as well as events occurring in response to or in connection with them, including future terrorist attacks against U.S. targets, rumors or threats of war, actual conflicts involving the United States or its allies, or military or trade disruptions affecting our suppliers or our customers, could adversely impact our operations. In addition, any terrorist attack could have an adverse impact on energy prices, including prices for our crude oil and refined products, and an adverse impact on the margins from our refining and marketing operations. As a result, there could be delays or losses in the delivery of supplies and raw materials to us, decreased sales of our products and extensions of time for payment of accounts receivable from our customers. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 