Risk Factors,” as well as those discussed in Item 7 under the section entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and elsewhere throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in any other documents incorporated by reference. We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our 10-Q and 8-K reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission. ITEM 1. BUSINESS BUSINESS OVERVIEW We are a development stage company with expertise in recombinant protein drug development. Our corporate office is located in Richmond, Virginia. On February 12, 2009 we announced that we had entered into a definitive agreement with Merck & Co., Inc. (“Merck”) whereby Merck, through an affiliate, would purchase all assets related to our follow-on biologics platform. On March 31, 2009, we completed the sale of these assets for an aggregate purchase price of $130 million. After fees, taxes and other costs related to the transaction, we expect net proceeds of approximately $123 million as a result of this transaction. As part of this transaction, Merck assumed the lease of our Boulder, Colorado-based manufacturing facility and acquired ownership of all the equipment in the building. In addition, upon closing of the transaction, Merck offered positions to employees of the Boulder facility. We retain our Richmond, VA corporate office, which houses our Clinical, Regulatory, Finance, and Administrative functions, in support of the continuing IPLEX™ program. The transfer of the Boulder facility to Merck takes away our internal IPLEX™ production capability. We believe, however, that we have sufficient inventory of IPLEX™ to support our ongoing Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis Expanded Access Program (“ALS EAP”) in Italy through 2010 together with the IPLEX™ requirement for the clinical trial currently being planned with the FDA for ALS patients in the US. Any requirements for IPLEX™ beyond 2010 or any significant increase in demand beyond our current commitments either in the Myotonic Muscular Dystrophy (“MMD”) or ALS fields will require that we identify a Contract Manufacturing Organization (“CMO”) to produce the necessary IPLEX™ to meet the demand. We estimate that the tech transfer of our IPLEX™ production process could take 12 to 18 months once a CMO has been identified. Until the sale of our follow-on biologics platform, we pursued a dual path strategy involving entry into the follow-on biologics arena (also known as biosimilars, biogenerics and biologics) and advancing our proprietary protein platform into niche markets with unmet needs. Following the sale of our follow-on biologics assets, we plan to continue to support our proprietary protein platform and our product, the FDA-approved IPLEX™, which is in various stages of development for a number of serious medical conditions including MMD,ALS, also known as Lou Gehrig’s disease, and Retinopathy of Prematurity (“ROP”). We have also engaged the services of RBC to act as financial advisor in evaluating other options for use of these proceeds which could include acquisitions of complimentary businesses or technologies, product licensing, mergers, share repurchase and the distribution of a portion of the proceeds to shareholders. PRODUCT PLATFORMS PROPRIETARY PROTEIN PLATFORM IPLEX™ Our proprietary protein product, IPLEX™ (mecasermin rinfabate, recombinant DNA origin, injection), which is a complex of recombinant human IGF-1 and its binding protein IGFBP-3 (rhIGF-1/rhIGFBP-3), is being studied as a treatment for several serious medical conditions. IPLEX™ is typically administered as a once-daily subcutaneous injection, which can restore and maintain IGF-1 at physiologically relevant levels. The binding protein, rhIGFBP-3, extends the residence time of IGF-1 in the blood. In the bound state, we believe IGF-1 is inactive and remains so until delivered to target tissues in the body where it is released and becomes biologically active. Following an external review of the markets for the various indications which could be served by IPLEX™ we have prioritized our targets and have selected MMD as our initial primary indication for IPLEX™ and results from our Phase II clinical trial in this indication are expected during the second quarter of 2009. We are also evaluating IPLEX™ as a treatment for ALS in Italy and Europe as part of our Expanded Access Program (EAP) and are in the process of working with the FDA to design and initiate a Phase II clinical trial for ALS patients in the US. In the Retinopathy of Prematurity (“ROP”) indication we are working with Premacure AB in Sweden and are supplying IPLEX™ to Premacure who intend to initiate a Phase II multicenter trial for IPLEX™ in the ROP indication during the second quarter of 2009. Development of IPLEX™ in Myotonic Muscular Dystrophy MMD is the most common type of adult muscular dystrophy and affects approximately 1 in 8,000 individuals. MMD causes progressive muscle wasting and weakness in the hands, forearms, legs, neck and face. It often involves many other systemic effects, including endocrine abnormalities, neurological changes, cataracts, gastrointestinal problems, and cardiac rhythm abnormalities. In extreme cases, these patients can eventually become totally disabled, dying usually from respiratory or cardiac failure. At present, there is no treatment to reverse most of these symptoms. Previous preclinical and clinical studies have demonstrated that IGF-1 therapy may be an effective treatment for MMD. Based on information published by the Muscular Dystrophy Association (the “MDA”), we believe that there are approximately 30,000 patients that suffer from MMD in the United States. At present, there is no approved treatment for this disease. Ongoing Clinical Study An advanced Phase II clinical trial investigating IPLEX™ as a treatment for MMD has been completed and the results from the trial are expected during the second quarter of 2009. This Phase III enabling trial was initiated, with the help of a $2.1 million grant from the MDA and was a 24 week, 69 patients, and 13 site placebo controlled trial in the US using a dose of 1.0 mg/kg/day of IPLEX™. This study is evaluating the effects of IPLEX™ on endurance, using the FDA approved six-minute walk test, as well as cognitive function, GI function, muscle function, lean body mass and insulin sensitivity. Expanded Access Program for Patients in Italy with ALS ALS is a progressive neurodegenerative disease that affects nerve cells in the brain and the spinal cord. Motor neurons reach from the brain to the spinal cord and from the spinal cord to the muscles throughout the body. The progressive degeneration of the motor neurons in ALS eventually leads to their death. When the motor neurons die, the ability of the brain to initiate and control muscle movement is lost. With voluntary muscle action progressively affected, patients in the later stages of the disease may become totally paralyzed. IGF-1 has been shown to be highly neurotrophic and normally circulates in the body bound with its natural chaperone, BP3. It is believed that IPLEX™ which is a complex of IGF-1 and BP3 increases the half life of IGF-1 in the bloodstream, allowing it to circulate in the body longer and affording a greater opportunity for IGF-1 to cross the blood-brain barrier and utilize its neurotrophic qualities in the area where it could prove most effective. At the request of the Italian Ministry of Health, we established an Expanded Access Program in Italy to provide IPLEX™ to physicians for use in their patients with ALS. The request came as a result of several Italian Court rulings ordering the Italian National Health System to provide IPLEX™ to specific ALS patients who have petitioned the Court. Through an agreement with Cephalon, which holds patent rights in the European Union to IGF-1 as it relates to the treatment of ALS, we are able to provide IPLEX™ to physicians in Italy and receive payment for the drug, on a cost recovery basis, from the Italian Health Authorities. In November 2008, through an agreement with Genentech Inc. and Ipsen Inc., we were allowed to develop IPLEX™ on a royalty free basis for the rest of the world. We have since entered into an agreement with IDIS to manage our IPLEX™ EAP for all countries outside of Italy and the US. IDIS is the world leader in the development and implementation of Named Patient Programs, also known as EAP’s. We will continue to manage the IPLEX™ EAP in Italy internally and we are presently in discussions with the FDA to design and initiate a Phase II clinical trial for ALS patients in the US. IPLEX™ and Short-Stature Market In the past, we were focused on development and commercialization of IPLEX™ for the treatment of growth failure in children with severe primary IGF-1 deficiency. IPLEX™ was approved by the FDA for treatment of severe primary IGF-1 deficiency in December 2005 and was commercially launched in the second quarter of 2006. As a result of our settlement agreement with Tercica, Inc. and Genentech, Inc., discussed below, we have withdrawn IPLEX™ from this market. In December 2004, Tercica (now Ipsen) and Genentech filed patent infringement suits against us in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California and in the United Kingdom at the High Court of Justice, Chancery Division, Patents Court. In these cases, Tercica and Genentech alleged that production and use of IPLEX™ infringed claims in certain U.S. and European patents, owned by Genentech and licensed to Tercica, directed to methods of using rhIGF-1/rhIGFBP-3 and methods of producing rhIGF-1 and IGFBP-3. In June 2006, Tercica also filed an unfair competition suit against us in the U.S. District Court of the Eastern District of Virginia, claiming that we disseminated misleading statements to the market in connection with our marketing of IPLEX™. On December 6, 2006, a jury in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California found that we infringed patents held by Tercica and Genentech and awarded damages of $7.5 million as an upfront payment and a royalty of 15% on past sales of IPLEX™ below $100 million and 20% for past sales of IPLEX™ above $100 million. On March 5, 2007, we reached a settlement agreement ending all litigation with Tercica and Genentech. Pursuant to the agreement, we agreed to cease sales and marketing of IPLEX™ in the United States and agreed to withdraw our European Marketing Authorization Application for IPLEX™. We continue to provide IPLEX™ to named patients with ALS in Italy and the rest of Europe under our Expanded Access Program. The agreement also gives us the right, through a worldwide development partnership with Tercica and Genentech, to market IPLEX™ for conditions not related to short-stature. These indications include severe insulin resistance, MMD and ROP, among others. The development partnership includes provisions that give us a 50% share of profits and reimbursement for 50% of development costs if either Tercica or Genentech exercises opt-in rights for marketing of IPLEX™ in any of these new indications that we develop. In addition, as part of the settlement agreement, Tercica and Genentech waived the damages awarded by the jury in the patent infringement suit from the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. Oncology Programs - INSM-18 and rhIGFBP-3 INSM-18 and rhIGFBP-3 are in early clinical development and are primarily being investigated for the treatment of cancer. We believe both INSM-18 and rhIGFBP-3 are promising potential novel treatments for a variety of cancer types. Preclinical models demonstrate that both treatments interact with the IGF system to reduce tumor growth. INSM-18 INSM-18 is an orally available small molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitor that has demonstrated selective inhibition of IGF-1 and human epidermal growth factor receptor (Her2/Neu). It has demonstrated anti-tumor activity in preclinical studies of breast, lung, pancreatic and prostate tumors. Two single dose Phase I clinical studies in healthy volunteers have been previously completed with INSM-18. In both studies, INSM-18 was safe and well tolerated. The American Cancer Society estimated that 232,000 new cases of prostate cancer occurred in the United States in 2005. It also estimated that 30,000 deaths occurred as a result of prostate cancer, making it the second leading cause of cancer death in men. Completed Clinical Study The University of California, San Francisco, has completed a dose-escalating Phase I/II clinical study designed to define the maximum tolerated dose of INSM-18 in patients with relapsed prostate cancer. The study consisted of a 28-day treatment period at each dose level to investigate the effect of INSM-18 on prostate-specific antigen levels. An analysis of the data collected from the study is currently being conducted. The results from this study will be used to design a potential Phase II clinical study which we plan to progress in collaboration with a suitable partner. rhIGFBP-3 Although IGF-1 is critical for normal growth and metabolism, aberrant signaling through this pathway is closely linked to the abnormal and unregulated growth of a variety of tumors. Blocking tumor-associated IGF signaling has prevented tumor growth in a variety of preclinical models. rhIGFBP-3 has demonstrated preclinical efficacy in numerous cancer indications, including breast, prostate, liver, ovarian and colon. Additionally, several lines of recent evidence, from various cell systems, have suggested that rhIGFBP-3 may play a more active, IGF-1-independent role in growth regulation of cancer cells, binding specifically with high affinity to the surface of various cell types and directly inhibiting monolayer growth of these cells in an IGF-1-independent manner. Recent independent studies have demonstrated that when IGFBP-3 is used in combination with other cancer therapies it can accentuate and even synergize the efficacy of standard cancer therapies. Paclitaxel-induced apoptosis is accentuated by rhIGFBP-3, which has been shown to sensitize cells to apoptotic signals such as irradiation and ceramides. Due to the high cost of trials in the oncology area we plan to identify a partner to co-develop rhIGFBP-3. FOLLOW-ON BIOLOGICS We completed the sale of our follow-on biologics assets on to Merck on March 31, 2009. Following this sale we do not have a presence in the FOB arena. Follow-on biologics (FOB), also known as “biogenerics” or “biosimilars,” are versions of drugs produced through biological processes. The biologics on which they are based differ from traditional “small molecule” drugs such as Aspirin®, and Lipitor®, and all other medicines typically taken in pill form – in several important ways. First, biologics are made up of complex molecules, such as proteins, that must be administered via direct injection because if they were administered orally, they would be broken down in the digestive tract and never reach their intended targets. Second, these drugs are produced not by merely combining chemicals but by the natural processes of living cells. In the manufacture of biologics, the DNA of cells is engineered such that the cells themselves produce the desired proteins. Third, the production of biologics is much more exacting than that of small-molecule drugs. Growing one type of genetically-engineered cell while excluding all other organisms from the mix is inherently more difficult than simply achieving sterile conditions (no living organisms at all) under which traditional drugs are manufactured. In November 2007 we announced completion of development of two key follow-on biologics at the facilities in Boulder, Colorado, INS-19 (Granulocyte Colony Stimulating Factor or G-CSF) and INS-20 (Peg G-CSF). In July 2008 we announced that we demonstrated the bioequivalence of INS-19 compared to Neupogen® and in October 2008 we announced that we had received approval from the United Kingdom's Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) to initiate a Phase I clinical study for our second follow-on biologic product candidate, INS-20. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Since we began operations in late 1999, we have devoted substantially all of our resources to the research and development of a number of product candidates for metabolic and endocrine diseases. Until the sale of our FOB assets on March 31, 2009, our research and development efforts were principally focused on pursuing a dual path strategy involving entry into the follow-on biologics arena (also known as biosimilars, biogenerics and biologics) and advancing our proprietary protein platform into niche markets with unmet needs. Our research and development efforts will now focus on our proprietary protein platform. Our lead proprietary protein product, the FDA-approved IPLEX™, is being studied as a treatment for several serious medical conditions with our primary focus being on MMD and ALS. We conduct very little of our own preclinical laboratory research. We have outsourced several Phase II clinical studies with IPLEX™ and our other anti-cancer product candidates, INSM-18 and rhIGFBP-3, and plan on conducting additional clinical studies in the future. Research and development expenses primarily include expenses incurred in preparing and obtaining necessary approvals from regulatory bodies, certain expenses involving the development of manufacturing processes and clinical studies. Our research and development expenses were approximately $21.1 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, $19.2 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 (“fiscal 2007”) and $21.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 (“fiscal 2008”). MANUFACTURING We have previously manufactured our own supply of IPLEX™ and rhIGFBP-3 at the Boulder, Colorado, FDA-approved manufacturing facility. The manufacturing process requires compliance with current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP, and other similar regulations. IPLEX™, a complex of two proteins, rhIGF-1 and its binding protein rhIGFBP-3, are manufactured using recombinant DNA technology. This manufacturing process is complicated and involves expression of the proteins by bacterial fermentation followed by purification and combination. We currently outsource to third-party contract manufacturers some of the analytical testing and the final fill, finish and labeling of IPLEX™. The transfer of the Boulder facility to Merck will take away our internal IPLEX™ production capability. We believe, however, that we will have sufficient inventory of IPLEX™ at the time of the sale to support our ongoing ALS EAP in Italy through 2010 together with the IPLEX™ requirement for the clinical trial currently being planned with the FDA for ALS patients in the US. Any requirements for IPLEX™ beyond 2010 or any significant increase in demand beyond our current commitments either in the MMD or ALS fields will require that we identify a Contract Manufacturing Organization (“CMO”) to produce the necessary IPLEX™ to meet the demand. It is estimated that the tech transfer of our IPLEX™ production process could take 12 to 18 months once a CMO has been identified PATENTS AND PROPRIETARY RIGHTS Patent Portfolio Proprietary protection is important to our business, and our policy is to protect our technology by filing patent applications for technology that we consider important. We directly hold several U.S. patents relating to the composition, production, antibodies and methods of use for IPLEX™ and rhIGFBP-3. In addition, foreign counterparts to the above-referenced U.S. patents have issued or are pending issue in the major pharmaceutical markets, such as the European Union, Canada and Japan. The various issued patents relate to IPLEX™ and rhIGFBP-3 compositions, methods of production and methods of treatment, and expire at various times during the years 2010 through 2019. As part of the ongoing development of IPLEX™, INSM-18 and rhIGFBP-3 we have filed or intend to file patent applications related to new production methods, improved formulations, new medical uses and new dosing regimens in the United States and in many of the major international pharmaceutical markets. As with any pending patent application, there can be no assurance that any of these applications will issue in the United States, European Union, Canada, and Japan or in any other country where we decide to file for protection. There also can be no assurance that a subsequent U.S. or foreign patent will later be held valid and enforceable. As part of our business strategy, we plan to license intellectual property that we feel may be important to the development and commercialization of our products. The agreements that we have entered into are subject to termination upon material breach by us. Our ability to maintain licensure under these agreements is dependent on our ability to meet the obligations defined in these agreements and although we take steps to ensure compliance with the provisions of these agreements, we cannot assure that the licensors will not take dispute with our actions and will seek to terminate the agreements. We currently have the following licensing arrangements for IPLEX™ and rhIGFBP-3 development in place: · In November 2008 we gained Royalty-Free Worldwide Rights for IPLEX™ from Tercica (now Ipsen) and Genentech in connection with potential expanded access ALS programs. · In March 2007, we were granted a license or sublicense as applicable to patents held by Tercica and Genentech to develop IPLEX™ in certain medical indications in the United States and foreign territories, as discussed earlier in this section; · In April 2005, we were granted a non-exclusive license to certain proprietary manufacturing technology from Avecia Limited; · In January 2004, we were granted a non-exclusive license to patent rights pertaining to the use of IGF-1 therapy for the treatment of extreme or severe insulin resistant diabetes from Fujisawa Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.; and · In November 1998, we were granted a non-exclusive license to certain proprietary manufacturing technology from Brookhaven Science Associates, LLC. Reflecting our commitment to safeguarding proprietary information, we require our employees and consultants to sign confidentiality agreements. Furthermore, we enter into research agreements in which we exchange proprietary materials and information with collaborators including material transfer agreements, research agreements, development agreements and clinical trial agreements. These agreements prohibit unauthorized disclosure of our proprietary information. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary information, unauthorized parties may attempt to obtain and use our proprietary information. Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary information is difficult and the steps we have taken might not prevent misappropriation, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as do the laws of the United States. We note that there has been increasing litigation in the biopharmaceutical industry with respect to the manufacture and sale of new therapeutic compounds. The validity and breadth of claims in biotechnology patents may involve complex factual and legal issues, for which no consistent policy exists. In particular, the patent protection available for protein-based drugs, such as IPLEX™ and rhIGFBP-3, is highly uncertain and involves issues relating to the scope of protection of claims to gene sequences and the production of their corresponding proteins. In some cases, litigation or other proceedings may be necessary to enforce our patents or protect our know-how or other intellectual property rights. Any additional potential litigation is likely to result in a substantial cost to us and a diversion of our resources. We cannot be sure that any of our patents will ultimately be held valid. An adverse outcome in any litigation or proceeding could subject us to significant liability. Third Party Patents Third parties hold U.S. and foreign patents possibly directed to the composition, production and use of rhIGF-1, rhIGFBP-3, IPLEX™ and recombinant proteins generally. We are not aware of any patents that would prevent us from pursuing our plans to commercialize IPLEX™ and rhIGFBP-3. We can provide no assurance, however, that a third party will not assert a contrary position in the future, for instance in the context of an infringement action. Likewise, we cannot predict with certainty the outcome of such a proceeding. In the event of a successful claim against us for infringement or misappropriation of a third party’s proprietary rights, we may be required to: · pay damages, including up to treble damages and the other party’s attorneys’ fees, which may be substantial; · cease the development, manufacture, marketing and sale of products that infringe the proprietary rights of others; · expend significant resources to redesign our product so that it does not infringe the proprietary rights of others; · develop or acquire non-infringing proprietary rights, which may not be possible and would require additional clinical trials and regulatory approvals; · redesign our product to avoid infringing on third party proprietary rights, which may result in significant regulatory delays associated with conducting additional clinical trials or other steps to obtain regulatory approval; and · obtain one or more licenses from third parties for the infringed proprietary rights, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Furthermore, litigation with any third party, even if the allegations are without merit, would likely be expensive and time-consuming and divert management’s attention. Any conclusions regarding non-infringement and invalidity are based in part on a review of publicly available databases and other information. There may be information not available to us or otherwise not reviewed by us that might change our conclusions. Moreover, the scope and validity of patent claims are determined based on many facts and circumstances, and in a litigation, a court may reach a different conclusion on any given patent claim than the conclusions that we have reached. In 2007 we settled patent infringement litigation brought against us by Tercica and Genentech. As part of the settlement agreement, we entered into a Consent Judgment and Permanent Injunction in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. If our settlement agreement with Tercica and Genentech is terminated, the Consent Judgment and Permanent Injunction against us will survive termination, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. COMPETITION We are engaged in an industry that is intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological progress. For our product candidates, we face significant competition from biotechnology, large pharmaceutical and other companies, universities and research institutions. Most of these companies and institutions have substantially greater capital resources, research and development staffs, facilities and experience in conducting clinical studies and obtaining regulatory approvals. In addition, many of these companies have greater experience and expertise than we do in manufacturing and marketing pharmaceutical products. We cannot predict the relative competitive position of our product candidates if they are approved for use. However, we expect that the following factors will determine our ability to compete effectively: safety, efficacy, product price, ease of administration and marketing and sales capability. In the proprietary protein area, we are aware of several pharmaceutical companies that are developing drugs in various forms of muscular dystrophy including PTC Therapeutics, Asklepios Biopharmaceutical Inc., Wyeth and Schering-Plough/Key Pharmaceutical, AVI Biopharma, Cephalon and Transgene, however, we believe that IPLEX™ is the only drug that is in development for the treatment of MMD. We are also aware that rhIGF-1 has been shown in a small clinical study to have positive effects in patients with MMD and that Nifendipine, Coenzyme Q10, DHEA-S and low dose Metformin have all been investigated for the treatment of MMD, however we are unaware of any formal development programs to pursue this indication for these drugs. Many companies are pursuing the development of products for the treatment of cancer. Our competitors include multinational pharmaceutical companies, specialized biotechnology firms, universities and other research institutions. Although we are unaware of any companies developing rhIGFBP-3 for cancer, we are aware of companies who are developing products that are intended to target the same IGF-1 pathway targeted by INSM-18 and rhIGFBP-3. These companies include ImClone, Amgen, OSI Pharmaceuticals, Bristol Meyers Squibb and Genentech. It is possible that there are other companies with products currently in development or that exist on the market that may compete directly with IPLEX™, INSM-18 and rhIGFBP-3. GOVERNMENT REGULATION Government authorities in the United States and other countries extensively regulate the research, development, testing, manufacture, promotion, marketing and distribution of drug products. Drugs are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA and similar regulatory bodies in other countries. If we do not comply with applicable requirements, we may be fined, the government may refuse to approve our marketing applications or allow us to manufacture or market our products, and we may be criminally prosecuted. We and our manufacturers may also be subject to regulations under other federal, state, and local laws, including the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Environmental Protection Act, the Clean Air Act and import, export and customs regulations. PROPRIETARY PROTEIN PLATFORM FDA Approval Process The steps ordinarily required before a new drug may be marketed in the United States are similar to steps required in many other countries. The process required by the FDA before a new drug may be marketed in the United States generally involves the following: completion of preclinical laboratory testing, submission of an Investigational New Drug Application, or IND, which must become effective before human clinical studies may begin, performance of adequate and well-controlled human clinical studies to establish the safety and efficacy of the proposed drug for its intended use and submission and approval of a New Drug Application, or NDA, by the FDA. Preclinical tests include laboratory evaluation of product chemistry and stability, as well as animal studies to evaluate toxicity before a drug is administered to human subjects. The results of preclinical testing are submitted to the FDA as part of an IND. The FDA requires a 30-day waiting period after the submission of each IND before beginning clinical tests in humans. At any time during this 30-day period or at any time thereafter, the FDA may order the partial, temporary or permanent discontinuation of a clinical trial or impose other sanctions if the FDA believes that the clinical trial is not being conducted in accordance with FDA requirements or presents an unacceptable risk to the clinical trial patients. Clinical studies must be conducted in accordance with the FDA’s good clinical practices requirements. The IND process may become extremely costly and substantially delay development of our products. Moreover, positive results of preclinical tests are not necessarily indicative of similar results in clinical trials. Clinical studies to support NDA approval are typically conducted in three sequential phases, but the phases may overlap. In Phase I clinical studies, the product is tested in a small number of patients or healthy volunteers, primarily for safety at one or more doses and to assess pharmacokinetics. In Phase II clinical studies, in addition to safety, the sponsor evaluates the efficacy of the product on targeted indications, identifies possible adverse effects and safety risks in a patient population, and assesses dose tolerance and optimal dose range. If a compound is found to be potentially effective and to have an acceptable safety profile in Phase II studies, Phase III studies, also referred to as “pivotal studies,” are undertaken. Phase III clinical studies typically involve testing for safety and clinical efficacy in an expanded patient population at geographically-dispersed study sites. After completion of the required clinical testing, an NDA is submitted. An NDA contains the results of the preclinical and clinical studies, together with, among other things, detailed information on the manufacture and composition of the product and proposed labeling, including payment of a user fee. The FDA may request additional information before accepting an NDA for filing, in which case the application must be resubmitted with the additional information. During its review of an NDA, the FDA may refer the application to an appropriate advisory committee for review, evaluation and recommendation as to whether the application should be approved. The FDA is not bound by the recommendation of an advisory committee. Under the policies agreed to by the FDA under the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, or the PDUFA, the FDA has ten months in which to complete its initial review of a standard NDA and respond to the applicant, and six months to initially review and respond to a priority NDA. Standard NDA status or priority NDA status are based on several factors identified by the FDA including for example, whether the drug product, if approved, would be a significant improvement compared to marketed products in the treatment, diagnosis, or prevention of a disease. The review process and the PDUFA goal date may be extended by three months if the FDA requests, or the NDA sponsor otherwise submits, a major amendment containing additional information or clarification regarding information already provided in the submission within the last three months of the PDUFA goal date. If the FDA’s evaluations of the NDA and the clinical and manufacturing procedures and facilities are favorable, the FDA may issue either an approval letter or an approvable letter, which contains the conditions that must be met in order to secure final approval of the NDA. If and when those conditions have been met to the FDA’s satisfaction, the FDA will issue an approval letter, authorizing commercial marketing of the drug for certain approved indications. In addition, an approval letter may contain various post-marketing commitments or agreements, which are often referred to as Phase IV studies. If the FDA’s evaluation of the NDA submission and the clinical and manufacturing procedures and facilities is not favorable, the FDA may refuse to approve the NDA and issue a not approvable letter. The manufacturers of approved products and their manufacturing facilities are subject to continual review and periodic inspections. Because we intend to contract with third parties for manufacturing of these products, our control of compliance with FDA requirements may be incomplete. In addition, identification of certain side effects or the occurrence of manufacturing problems after any of our drugs are on the market could cause subsequent product recall, discontinuance, or withdrawal of approval, reformulation of the drug, additional preclinical testing or clinical studies and labeling changes. The FDA’s policies may change, and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay regulatory approval for our products. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse governmental regulation that might arise from future legislative or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. The Hatch-Waxman Act The Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, or Hatch-Waxman Act, amended the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the “FDCA”). Under the Hatch-Waxman Act, newly-approved drugs and indications may benefit from a statutory period of non-patent marketing exclusivity. The Hatch-Waxman Act provides five year marketing exclusivity to the first applicant to gain approval of an NDA for a new chemical entity, meaning that the FDA has not previously approved any other new drug containing the same active moiety. However, in the case of a combination drug containing a new chemical entity and a non-new chemical entity, five year exclusivity does not attach to the new chemical entity. The Hatch-Waxman Act prohibits the submission of an Abbreviated NDA, or ANDA, for a generic drug, or a Section 505(b)(2) NDA for another version of such drug during the five year exclusive period. However, the submission of an ANDA or Section 505(b)(2) NDA containing a paragraph IV certification claiming that a patent listed in the FDA’s Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations, or Orange Book, for the drug is invalid or will not be infringed by the manufacture, use or sale of the new product is permitted after four years. The submission of a paragraph IV certification may trigger a 30-month stay of approval of the ANDA or Section 505(b)(2) NDA. Protection under Hatch-Waxman will not prevent the submission or approval of another full NDA; however, the applicant would be required to conduct its own preclinical and adequate and well-controlled clinical studies to demonstrate safety and effectiveness. The Hatch-Waxman Act also provides three years of marketing exclusivity for the approval of new and supplemental NDAs, for, among other things, new indications, dosage forms, or strengths of an existing drug, if new clinical investigations that were conducted or sponsored by the applicant are essential to the approval of the application. IPLEX™ is currently protected by a seven year period of orphan drug exclusivity for the treatment of severe primary IGF-1 deficiency, which prevents the FDA from approving another marketing application for the same drug for the same indication, except in the limited circumstances described below. In addition, the FDA’s Orange Book publication lists two patents covering IPLEX™ to which a generic applicant must certify. Orphan Drug Designation and Exclusivity Some jurisdictions, including the European Union and the United States, may designate drugs for relatively small patient populations as orphan drugs. The FDA grants orphan drug designation to drugs intended to treat a rare disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States or more than 200,000 individuals in the United States and for which there is no reasonable expectation that the cost of developing and making available in the United States a drug for this type of disease or condition will be recovered from sales in the United States for that drug. In the United States, orphan drug designation must be requested before submitting an application for marketing approval. Orphan drug designation does not convey any advantage in, or shorten the duration of, the regulatory review and approval process. If a product that has orphan drug designation subsequently receives the first FDA approval for the indication for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to orphan drug exclusivity, which means the FDA may not approve any other application to market the same drug for the same indication for a period of seven years, except in limited circumstances, such as a showing of clinical superiority (superior efficacy, safety, or a major contribution to patient care) to the product with orphan drug exclusivity. Also, competitors may receive approval of different drugs or biologics for the indications for which the orphan drug has exclusivity. We have received orphan designation for IPLEX™ for the treatment of MMD. We also intend to file for orphan drug designation IPLEX™ for other indications that meet the criteria for orphan drug designation and for which IPLEX™ appears to be a promising treatment. If the FDA designates the drug and approves our marketing application, or approves marketing applications under current designations, we will be granted seven years of orphan drug exclusivity for the drug for the designated indication. Obtaining FDA approval to market a product with orphan drug exclusivity may not provide us with a material commercial advantage. Under European Union medicine laws, the criteria for designation as an “orphan medicine” are similar but somewhat different from those in the United States. A drug is designated as an orphan drug if the sponsor can establish that the drug is intended for a life-threatening or chronically debilitating condition affecting no more than five in 10,000 persons in the European Union or that is unlikely to be profitable, and if there is no approved satisfactory treatment or if the drug would be a significant benefit to those persons with the condition. Orphan medicines are entitled to ten years of market exclusivity, except under certain limited circumstances comparable to United States law. During this period of market exclusivity, no “similar” product, whether or not supported by full safety and efficacy data, will be approved unless a second applicant can establish that its product is safer, more effective or otherwise clinically superior. This period may be reduced to six years if the conditions that originally justified orphan drug designation change or the sponsor makes excessive profits. We have obtained orphan medicine designation in the European Union for IPLEX™ for the treatment of extreme insulin resistance. Other Regulatory Requirements We may also be subject to a number of post-approval regulatory requirements. If we seek to make certain changes to an approved product, such as promoting or labeling a product for a new indication, making certain manufacturing changes or product enhancements or adding labeling claims, we will need FDA review and approval before the change can be implemented. While physicians may use products for indications that have not been approved by the FDA, we may not label or promote the product for an indication that has not been approved. Securing FDA approval for new indications or product enhancements and, in some cases, for manufacturing and labeling claims, is generally a time-consuming and expensive process that may require us to conduct clinical studies under the FDA’s IND regulations. Even if such studies are conducted, the FDA may not approve any change in a timely fashion, or at all. In addition, adverse experiences associated with use of the products must be reported to the FDA, and FDA rules govern how we can label, advertise or otherwise commercialize our products. Outside the United States, our ability to market our products will also depend on receiving marketing authorizations from the appropriate regulatory authorities. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical studies and marketing authorization vary widely from country to country. The foreign regulatory approval process includes risks similar to those associated with FDA approval described above. EMPLOYEES At December 31, 2008, we had 97 employees, including 19 in research and development, 31 in regulatory, clinical and quality assurance, 29 in manufacturing, and 18 in finance and administration. After giving effect to the sale of our FOB assets on March 31, 2009, we had 18 employees as of that date, including 3 executives, 10 in regulatory and clinical and 5 in finance and administration. Our continued success will depend in large measure on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled employees who are in great demand. None of our employees are represented by a labor union and we believe that our relations with our employees are generally good. Available Information We file electronically with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We make available on our website at http://www.insmed.com, free of charge, copies of these reports as soon as reasonably practicable after filing these reports with, or furnishing them to, the SEC. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our operating results and financial condition have varied in the past and may in the future vary significantly depending on a number of factors. Except for the historical information in this report, the matters contained in this report include forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this report and presented elsewhere by management from time to time. Such factors, among others, may have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations and financial condition. You should consider carefully the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this annual report on Form 10–K. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. We have a history of operating losses and an expectation that we will generate operating losses for the foreseeable future, we may not achieve profitability for some time, if at all. We are a development stage company with expertise in protein recombinant drug development. We have incurred losses each year of operation and we expect to continue incurring operating losses for the foreseeable future. The process of developing and commercializing our products requires significant pre-clinical testing and clinical trials as well as regulatory approvals for commercialization and marketing before we are allowed to begin product sales. In addition, commercialization of our drug candidates requires us to establish a sales and marketing organization and contractual relationships to enable product manufacturing and other related activities. We expect that these activities, together with our general and administrative expenses, will result in substantial operating losses for the foreseeable future. As of December 31, 2008, our accumulated deficit was $346 million and for the year ended December 31, 2008 our consolidated net loss was $15.7 million. The Italian Health Authority may refuse to pay for IPLEX™ used by patients in Italy under our Expanded Access Program, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. At present the Italian Health Authority approves all drug payments for IPLEX™ used by Italian patients with ALS in Italy as part of our Expanded Access Program. Should the Italian Health Authority decide to stop approving IPLEX™ for ALS it would significantly affect our cash position and could require us to raise funds sooner than anticipated, which may only be available to us on less than favorable terms. We have not completed the research and development stage of any of our product candidates. If we are unable to successfully commercialize our products, it will materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our long-term viability and growth depend on the successful commercialization of products which lead to revenue and profits. Pharmaceutical product development is an expensive, high risk, lengthy, complicated, resource intensive process. In order to succeed, among other things, we must be able to: · identify potential drug product candidates; · design and conduct appropriate laboratory, preclinical and other research; · submit for and receive regulatory approval to perform clinical studies; · design and conduct appropriate preclinical and clinical studies according to good laboratory and good clinical practices; · select and recruit clinical investigators; · select and recruit subjects for our studies; · collect, analyze and correctly interpret the data from our studies; · submit for and receive regulatory approvals for marketing; and · manufacture the drug product candidates according to cGMP. The development program with respect to any given product will take many years and thus delay our ability to generate profits. In addition, potential products that appear promising at early stages of development may fail for a number of reasons, including the possibility that the products may require significant additional testing or turn out to be unsafe, ineffective, too difficult or expensive to develop or manufacture, too difficult to administer, or unstable. In order to conduct the development programs for our products we must, among other things, be able to successfully: · raise sufficient money and pay for the development of the products · attract and retain appropriate personnel; and · develop relationships with other companies to perform various development activities that we are unable to perform. Even if we are successful in developing and obtaining approval for our product candidates, there are numerous circumstances that could prevent the successful commercialization of the products such as: · the regulatory approvals of our products are delayed or we are required to conduct further research and development of our products prior to receiving regulatory approval; · we are unable to build a sales and marketing group to successfully launch and sell our products; · we are unable to raise the additional funds needed to successfully develop and commercialize our products or acquire additional products for growth; · we are required to allocate available funds to litigation matters; · we are unable to manufacture the quantity of product needed in accordance with current good manufacturing practices to meet market demand, or at all; · our product is determined to be ineffective or unsafe following approval and is removed from the market or we are required to perform additional research and development to further prove the safety and effectiveness of the product before re-entry into the market; · competition from other products or technologies prevents or reduces market acceptance of our products; · we do not have and cannot obtain the intellectual property rights needed to manufacture or market our products without infringing on another company’s patents; · we are unsuccessful in defending against patent infringement claims being brought against us our products or technologies; or · we are unable to obtain reimbursement for our product or such reimbursement may be less than is necessary to produce a reasonable profit. Our growth strategy includes the commercialization of more than one product. We may not be able to identify and acquire complementary products, businesses or technologies and if acquired or licensed, they might not improve our business, financial condition or results of operations. The failure to successfully acquire, develop and commercialize products will adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our common stock may be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market which may cause the value of an investment in our common stock to substantially decrease. We may be unable to meet the continued listing requirements of the NASDAQ Capital Market in the future. To maintain the listing of our common stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market, we are required, among other things, to maintain a daily closing bid price per share of $1.00 (the “Minimum Bid Price Requirement”). By letter dated June 18, 2007, we were notified by the NASDAQ Listing Qualification Staff (the “Staff”) that the bid price for our common stock had closed below $1.00 per share for the previous 30 consecutive business days and that in accordance with NASDAQ marketplace rules, we had been granted a 180-calendar day period, or through December 17, 2007, to regain compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Requirement. By letter dated December 20, 2007, the Staff notified us that we had failed to regain compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Requirement and that our common stock would be delisted from the NASDAQ Stock Market on December 31, 2007, if we did not transfer the listing to the NASDAQ Capital Market or appeal the Staff decision to a NASDAQ Hearings Panel (a “Panel”). By letter dated, December 26, 2007, we requested a hearing before a Panel and on January 24, 2008, we attended a Panel hearing in connection with our failure to meet the Minimum Bid Price Requirement. By decision dated February 27, 2008, the Panel transferred our common stock to the NASDAQ Capital Market and granted us the balance of the second 180-calendar day period, or until June 12, 2008, in accordance with NASDAQ marketplace rules, to regain compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Requirement. We did not regain compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Requirement and accordingly, on June 17, 2008, were notified by the Staff that our common stock would be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market if we did not request a hearing before a Panel. By letter dated June 24, 2008, we requested a hearing before a Panel with respect to the continued listing of our common stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market. On July 31, 2008, we had a hearing in front of the Panel. On August 29, 2008, we received a letter from the Panel stating that the Panel had granted our request to remain listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, provided that, we evidence compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Rule on or before December 15, 2008. Subsequent to the Panel decision, due to market conditions, on October 16, 2008, NASDAQ announced that it was suspending compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Requirement for all listed companies until January 16, 2009. In connection with the suspension of the Minimum Bid Price Requirement, we were notified that the period by which we must be in compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Requirement had been extended until July 17, 2009. If we fail to regain compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Requirement on or before July 17, 2009, the Staff will provide us with written notification that our Common Stock will be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market. If a delisting from the NASDAQ Capital Market were to occur, our Common Stock would be eligible, upon the application of a market maker, to trade on the OTC Bulletin Board or in the “pink sheets.” These alternative markets are generally considered to be less efficient than, and not as broad as, the NASDAQ Capital Market or the NASDAQ Global Market. Therefore, delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Capital Market could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and could limit the liquidity of our common stock and therefore could cause the value of an investment in our common stock to decrease. In order to regain compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Requirement of the NASDAQ Stock Market we may be required to implement a reverse stock split, which could have a material adverse affect on our stock price. We may be required to implement a reverse stock split in order for our shares of common stock to remain listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. While such reverse stock split could bring us back into compliance, there can be no assurance that any increase in the market price for our common stock resulting from a reverse stock split, if approved and implemented, would be sustainable since there are numerous factors and contingencies that would effect such price, including the market conditions for our common stock at the time, our reported results of operations in future periods and general economic, geopolitical, stock market and industry conditions. Accordingly, the total market capitalization of our common stock after a reverse stock split may be lower than the total market capitalization before such reverse stock split and, in the future, the market price of our common stock may not exceed or remain higher than the market price prior to such reverse stock split. While a higher share price may help generate investor interest in our common stock, there can be no assurance that a reverse stock split would result in a per share market price that attracts institutional investors or investment funds, or that such price would satisfy the investing guidelines of institutional investors or investment funds. As a result, the trading liquidity of our common stock may not improve as a result of a reverse stock split. Furthermore, the liquidity of our common stock could be adversely affected by the reduced number of shares of our common stock that would be outstanding after the reverse stock split. If our products fail in pre-clinical or clinical trials or if we cannot enroll enough patients to complete our clinical trials, such failure may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In order to sell our products, we must receive regulatory approval. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any of our products under development, we must demonstrate through pre-clinical studies and clinical trials that the product is safe and effective for use in each target indication. In addition, the results from pre-clinical testing and early clinical trials may not be predictive of results obtained in later clinical trials. There can be no assurance that our clinical trials will demonstrate sufficient safety and effectiveness to obtain regulatory approvals for our products still in development. A number of companies in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries have suffered significant setbacks in late stage clinical trials even after promising results in early stage development. If our developmental products fail in pre-clinical or clinical trials, it will have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The completion rate of clinical studies of our products is dependent on, among other factors, the patient enrollment rate. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including: · investigator identification and recruitment; · regulatory approvals to initiate study sites; · patient population size; · the nature of the protocol to be used in the trial; · patient proximity to clinical sites; · eligibility criteria for the study; and · competition from other companies’ clinical studies for the same patient population. We believe our planned procedures for enrolling patients are appropriate; however, delays in patient enrollment would increase costs and delay ultimate commercialization and sales, if any, of our products. Such delays could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be required to conduct broad, long-term clinical trials to address concerns that the long-term use of one of our leading products, IPLEX™, in broader chronic indications might increase the risk of diabetic retinopathy. This may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In previously published clinical trials of rhIGF-1, concerns were raised that long-term use of rhIGF-1 might lead to an increased incidence and/or severity of retinopathy, a disease of new blood vessel growth in the eye which results in loss of vision. Because IPLEX™ contains rhIGF-I, the FDA may require us to conduct broad, long-term clinical trials to address these concerns prior to receiving FDA approval for broad chronic indications such as diabetes. These clinical trials would be expensive and could delay our commercialization of IPLEX™ for these broader chronic indications. Adverse results in these trials could prevent our commercialization of IPLEX™ for broad chronic indications or could jeopardize existing development in other indications. We cannot be certain that we will obtain regulatory approvals in the United States, European Union or other countries. The failure to obtain such approvals may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are required to obtain various regulatory approvals prior to studying our products in humans and then again before we market and distribute our products. The regulatory review and approval process required to perform a clinical study in both the United States and European Union includes evaluation of preclinical studies and clinical studies, as well as the evaluation of our manufacturing process. This process is complex, lengthy, expensive, resource intensive and uncertain. Securing regulatory approval to market our products also requires the submission of extensive preclinical and clinical data, manufacturing information regarding the process and facility, scientific data characterizing our product and other supporting data to the regulatory authorities in order to establish its safety and effectiveness. This process is also complex, lengthy, expensive, resource intensive and uncertain. We have limited experience in filing and pursuing applications necessary to gain these regulatory approvals. Data submitted to the regulators is subject to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory agency approval. We may also encounter delays or rejections based on changes in regulatory agency policies during the period in which we develop a product and the period required for review of any application for regulatory agency approval of a particular product. Delays in obtaining regulatory agency approvals could adversely affect the development and marketing of any drugs that we or our collaborative partners develop. Such delays could impose costly procedures on our collaborative partners’ or our activities, diminish any competitive advantages that our collaborative partners or we may attain and adversely affect our ability to receive royalties, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In order to market our products outside of the United States and European Union, our corporate partners and we must comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries. The approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in these other territories might differ from that required to obtain FDA or European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products, or EMEA, approval. The regulatory approval process in these other territories includes at least all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA and EMEA approval detailed above. Approval by the FDA or the EMEA does not ensure approval by the regulatory authorities of other countries. The failure to obtain such approvals may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not have or be able to obtain sufficient quantities of our products to meet our supply and clinical studies obligations and our business, financial condition and results of operation may be adversely affected. The transfer of the Boulder facility to Merck takes away our internal IPLEX™ production capability. We believe, however, that we have sufficient inventory of IPLEX™ to support our ongoing ALS EAP in Europe through 2010 together with the IPLEX™ requirement for the clinical trial currently being planned with the FDA for ALS patients in the US. Any requirements for IPLEX™ beyond 2010 or any significant increase in demand beyond our current commitments either in the MMD or ALS fields will require that we identify a Contract Manufacturing Organization or CMO to produce the necessary IPLEX™ to meet the demand. We estimate that the tech transfer of our IPLEX™ production process could take 12 to 18 months once a CMO has been identified. We also intend to manufacture rhIGFBP-3 clinical drug substance and INSM-18 with contract manufacturers. In addition, we intend to utilize contract manufacturers for sterile filtering, filling, finishing, labeling and analytical testing. The number of contract manufacturers with the expertise and facilities to manufacture our products is limited and it would take a significant amount of time and resources to arrange for alternative manufacturers. Even if we were to find alternative manufacturers, the prices they charge may not be commercially reasonable or may only be able to provide our products in a quantity that is less than our needs. Furthermore, if we need to change to other contract manufacturers, we would also need to transfer to these new manufacturers and validate the processes and analytical methods necessary for the production and testing of our products. Any of these factors could lead to (1) the delay or suspension of our clinical studies, regulatory submissions and regulatory approvals, or (2) higher costs of production, or (3) our failure to effectively commercialize our products. The facilities of contract manufacturers must undergo inspections by the FDA and the EMEA for compliance with cGMP regulations. In the event these facilities do not continue to receive satisfactory cGMP inspections for the manufacture and testing of our products, we may need to fund additional modifications to our manufacturing or testing processes, conduct additional validation studies, or find alternative manufacturing and testing facilities, any of which would result in significant cost to us as well as a significant delay of up to several years in the development of our products. In addition, the facilities of any contract manufacturer we may utilize, will be subject to ongoing periodic inspection by the FDA, the EMEA and other foreign agencies for compliance with cGMP regulations and similar foreign standards. We have limited control over contract manufacturers' compliance with these regulations and standards which could limit our production of final drug product. If our products fail to achieve market acceptance for any reason, such failure may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that any of our product candidates if approved for marketing, will achieve market acceptance. If our product candidates, once approved, do not receive market acceptance for any reason, it will adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The degree of market acceptance of any drugs we develop will depend on a number of factors, including: · the establishment and demonstration in the medical community of the clinical efficacy and safety of our products; · our products’ potential advantages over existing and future treatment methods; · the price of our products; and · reimbursement policies of government and third-party payers, including hospitals and insurance companies. For example, even after we obtain regulatory approval to sell our products, physicians and healthcare payers could conclude that our products are not safe and effective and physicians could choose not to use them to treat patients. Our competitors may also develop new technologies or products which are more effective or less costly, or that seem more cost-effective than our products. In addition, legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceuticals may change in ways adverse to us. While we cannot predict the likelihood of any legislative or regulatory proposals, if the government or an agency adopts such proposals, they could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent upon retaining and attracting key personnel and others, the loss of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend highly on the principal members of our scientific and management staff, the loss of whose services might significantly delay or prevent the achievement of research, development or business objectives and would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain qualified management, scientific and medical personnel, and on our ability to develop and maintain important relationships with commercial partners, leading research institutions and key distributors. We face intense competition for such personnel and relationships. We cannot assure that we will attract and retain such persons or maintain such relationships. We expect that our potential expansion into areas and activities requiring additional expertise, such as further clinical trials, governmental approvals, manufacturing, sales, marketing and distribution will place additional requirements on our management, operational and financial resources. We expect these demands will require an increase in management and scientific personnel and the development of additional expertise by existing management personnel. The failure to attract and retain such personnel or to develop such expertise could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on collaborative relationships for our success. If we are unable to form these relationships it could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently rely and may in the future rely on a number of significant collaborative relationships for intellectual property rights, research funding, manufacturing, analytical services, preclinical development, clinical development and sales and marketing. For example, almost all of our clinical trial work is done in collaboration with academic institutions and we have licensed intellectual property to permit the development, manufacture and commercialization of our products. Reliance on collaborative relationships poses a number of risks, including the following: · we may not be able to effectively control whether our corporate partners will devote sufficient resources to our programs or products; · disputes may arise in the future with respect to the ownership of rights to technology developed with, licensed to or licensed from corporate partners; · disagreements with corporate partners could result in loss of intellectual property rights, delay or terminate the research, development or commercialization of product candidates or result in litigation or arbitration; · contracts with our corporate partners may fail to provide sufficient protection of our intellectual property; · we may have difficulty enforcing the contracts if one of these partners fails to perform; · corporate partners have considerable discretion in electing whether to pursue the development of any additional products and may pursue technologies or products either on their own or in collaboration with our competitors; and · corporate partners with marketing rights may choose to devote fewer resources to the marketing of our products than they do to products of their own development. Given these risks, a great deal of uncertainty exists regarding the success of our current and future collaborative efforts. Failure of these efforts could delay, impair or prevent the development and commercialization of our products and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our growth strategy includes acquiring complementary businesses or technologies that may not be available or, if available and purchased or licensed, might not improve our business, financial condition or results of operations. As part of our business strategy, we expect to pursue acquisitions and in-license new products and technologies. Nonetheless, we cannot assure you that we will identify suitable acquisitions or products or that we can make such acquisitions or enter into such license agreements on acceptable terms. If we acquire businesses, those businesses may require substantial capital, and we cannot provide assurance that such capital will be available in sufficient amounts or that financing will be available in amounts and on terms that we deem acceptable. Furthermore, the integration of acquired businesses may result in unforeseen difficulties that require a disproportionate amount of management’s attention and our other resources. Finally, we cannot provide assurance that we will achieve productive synergies and efficiencies from these acquisitions. We intend to conduct proprietary development programs with collaborators, and any conflicts with them could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We intend to enter into collaborative relationships which will involve our collaborators conducting proprietary development programs. Any conflict with our collaborators could reduce our ability to obtain future collaboration agreements and negatively influence our relationship with existing collaborators, which could reduce our revenues and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, disagreements with our collaborators could develop over rights to our intellectual property. Certain of our collaborators could also be or become competitors. Our collaborators could harm our product development efforts by: · developing competing products; · precluding us from entering into collaborations with their competitors; · failing to obtain regulatory approvals; · terminating their agreements with us prematurely; or · failing to devote sufficient resources to the development and commercialization of products. We may need additional funds in the future to continue our operations, but we face uncertainties with respect to our access to capital that could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may require additional future capital in order to acquire complementary businesses or technology or continue our research and development activities. As of December 31, 2008, we had $2.4 million of cash and investments on hand. On March 31, 2009, we completed the sale of our FOB assets for an aggregate purchase price of $130 million. After fees, taxes and other costs related to the transaction, we expect net proceeds of approximately $123 million as a result of this transaction. However, our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including factors associated with: · research and development, including, among other items, preclinical testing and clinical studies, · process development; · obtaining marketing, sales and distribution capabilities; · obtaining regulatory approvals; · retaining employees and consultants; · filing and prosecuting patent applications and enforcing patent claims; · establishing strategic alliances; · manufacturing; and · potential future litigation. We may also need to spend more money than currently expected because we may further change or alter drug development plans, acquire additional drugs or drug candidates or we may misjudge our costs. We have no committed sources of capital and do not know whether additional financing will be available when needed, or, if available, that the terms will be favorable. There can be no assurance that our cash reserves together with any subsequent funding will satisfy our capital requirements. The failure to satisfy our capital requirements will adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may seek additional funding through strategic alliances, private or public sales of our securities or licensing all or a portion of our technology. Such funding may significantly dilute existing shareholders or may limit our rights to our currently developing technology. There can be no assurance, however, that we can obtain additional funding on reasonable terms, or at all. If we cannot obtain adequate funds, we may need to significantly curtail our product development programs and relinquish rights to our technologies or drug candidates. This may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not accurately predict the protection afforded by our patents and proprietary technology and if our predictions are wrong, this may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain patent protection for our products, prevent third parties from infringing on our patents, and refrain from infringing on the patents of others, both domestically and internationally. Our patent positions are highly uncertain, and any future patents we receive for our potential products will be subject to this uncertainty, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We intend to actively pursue patent protection for products resulting from our research and development activities that have significant potential commercial value. Nevertheless, it is possible that, in the patent application process, certain claims may be rejected or achieve such limited allowance that the value of the patents would be diminished. Further, there can be no assurance that any patents obtained will afford us adequate protection. In addition, any patents we procure may require cooperation with companies holding related patents. We may have difficulty forming a successful relationship with these other companies. Third parties may claim that we are infringing upon or have misappropriated their proprietary rights. Various third parties have obtained, and are attempting to obtain, patent protection relating to the production and use of our approved product and product candidates. We can give no assurances as to whether any issued patents, or patents that may later issue to third parties, would affect our contemplated commercialization of IPLEX™ or any other product. We can give no assurances that such patents can be avoided, invalidated or licensed. With respect to any infringement claim asserted by a third party, we can give no assurances that we will be successful in the litigation or that such litigation would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. In the event of a successful claim against us for infringement or misappropriation of a third party’s proprietary rights, we may be required to: · pay damages, including up to treble damages, and the other party’s attorneys’ fees, which may be substantial; · cease the development, manufacture, marketing and sale of products or use of processes that infringe the proprietary rights of others; · expend significant resources to redesign our products or our processes so that they do not infringe the proprietary rights of others, which may not be possible; · redesign our products or processes to avoid third party proprietary rights, we may suffer significant regulatory delays associated with conducting additional clinical trials or other steps to obtain regulatory approval; and · obtain one or more licenses arising out of a settlement of litigation or otherwise from third parties for the infringed proprietary rights, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Furthermore, litigation with any third party, even if the allegations are without merit, would likely be expensive and time-consuming and divert management’s attention. Any conclusions we may have reached regarding non-infringement and invalidity are based in part on a review of publicly available databases and other information. There may be information not available to us or otherwise not reviewed by us that might change our conclusions. Moreover, as described above, the scope and validity of patent claims are determined based on many facts and circumstances, and in a litigation, a court may reach a different conclusion on any given patent claim than the conclusions that we have reached. In addition, we may have to undertake costly litigation to enforce any patents issued or licensed to us or to determine the scope and validity of another party’s proprietary rights. We can give no assurances that a court of competent jurisdiction would validate our issued or licensed patents. An adverse outcome in litigation or an interference or other proceeding in a court or patent office could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive environment and if we are unable to adapt to our environment, we may be unable to compete successfully, which will materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Biotechnology and related pharmaceutical technology have undergone and should continue to experience rapid and significant change. We expect that the technologies associated with biotechnology research and development will continue to develop rapidly. Our future success will depend in large part on our ability to maintain a competitive position with respect to these technologies. Any compounds, products or processes that we develop may become obsolete before we recover any expenses incurred in connection with their development. Rapid technological change could make our products obsolete, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We expect that successful competition will depend, among other things, on product efficacy, safety, reliability, availability, timing and scope of regulatory approval and price. Specifically, we expect crucial factors will include the relative speed with which we can develop products, complete the clinical testing and regulatory approval processes and supply commercial quantities of the product to the market. We expect competition to increase as technological advances are made and commercial applications broaden. In each of our potential product areas, we face substantial competition from large pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other companies, universities and research institutions. Relative to us, most of these entities have substantially greater capital resources, research and development staffs, facilities and experience in conducting clinical studies and obtaining regulatory approvals, as well as in manufacturing and marketing pharmaceutical products. Many of our competitors may achieve product commercialization or patent protection earlier than us. Furthermore, we believe that our competitors have used, and may continue to use, litigation to gain a competitive advantage. Finally, our competitors may use different technologies or approaches to the development of products similar to the products we are seeking to develop. Competitors could develop and gain FDA approval of products containing rhIGF-1, which could adversely affect our competitive position in all indications where we are currently developing IPLEX™. rhIGF-1 manufactured by other parties may be approved for use in other indications in the United States in the future, including MMD and HARS. In the event there are other rhIGF-1 products approved by the FDA to treat indications other than those covered by IPLEX™, physicians may elect to prescribe a competitor’s product containing rhIGF-1 to treat the indications for which IPLEX™ has received and may receive approval. This is commonly referred to as off-label use. While under FDA regulations a competitor is not allowed to promote off-label use of its product, the FDA does not regulate the practice of medicine and as a result cannot direct physicians as to what product containing rhIGF-1 to prescribe to their patients. As a result, we would have limited ability to prevent off-label use of a competitor’s product containing rhIGF-1 to treat any diseases for which we have received FDA approval, even if it violates our patents and we have orphan drug exclusivity for the use of rhIGF-1 to treat such diseases. If another party obtains orphan drug exclusivity for a product that is essentially the same as a product we are developing in a particular indication, we may be precluded or delayed from commercializing the product in that indication. This may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan drug designation to drugs intended to treat a rare disease or condition, which is generally a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States. The company that obtains the first marketing approval from the FDA for a designated orphan drug for a rare disease receives marketing exclusivity for use of that drug for the designated condition for a period of seven years. Similar laws exist in EU. If a competitor obtains approval of the same drug for the same indication or disease before us, we would be blocked from obtaining approval for our product for seven or more years, unless our product can be shown to be clinically superior. In addition, more than one drug may be approved by the FDA for the same orphan indication or disease as long as the drugs are different drugs. As a result, even if our product is approved and receives orphan drug exclusivity, as in the case of our drug IPLEX™, the FDA can still approve different drugs for use in treating the same indication or disease covered by our product, which could create a more competitive market for us. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. Disclosure of this information may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In order to protect our proprietary technology and processes, we rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our corporate partners, employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators and sponsored researchers and other advisors. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover trade secrets and proprietary information. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business, financial condition and results of operations. Our research, development and manufacturing activities at our former Boulder Facility involved the use of hazardous materials, which could expose us to damages that could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our research, development and manufacturing activities at our former Boulder Facility involved the controlled use of hazardous materials, including hazardous chemicals and radioactive materials. Under the terms and conditions of our agreement with Merck for the sale of our FOB assets, we retained our obligations and liabilities under any environmental law relating to activities conducted before March 31, 2009 but which arise at any time during the two-year period beginning on March 31, 2009. If any such obligation or liability arises, we could be subject to an obligation to indemnify Merck for any losses incurred by Merck which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may be subject to product liability claims if our products harm people, and we have only limited product liability insurance. The manufacture and sale of human therapeutic products involve an inherent risk of product liability claims and associated adverse publicity. We currently have only limited product liability insurance for our products. We do not know if we will be able to maintain existing or obtain additional product liability insurance on acceptable terms or with adequate coverage against potential liabilities. This type of insurance is expensive and may not be available on acceptable terms. If we are unable to obtain or maintain sufficient insurance coverage on reasonable terms or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims, we may be unable to commercialize our products. A successful product liability claim brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage, if any, may require us to pay substantial amounts. This could have a material adverse effect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our settlement agreement with Tercica and Genentech was terminated, the Consent order from the court would be reinstated, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As part of our settlement agreement with Genentech and Tercica, we entered into a Consent Judgment and Permanent Injunction in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. If our settlement agreement with Tercica and Genentech is terminated, the Consent Judgment and Permanent Injunction against us will survive termination, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations as we would no longer have a license to manufacture IPLEX™ using the present process without incurring significant penalties and royalties. Conversion of our outstanding notes and exercise of warrants and options issued by us will significantly dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders. As of February 28, 2009, the convertible notes issued by us in March 2005 and the warrants issued by us in May 2007, March 2005, November 2004 and July 2003 were convertible into and exercisable for up to approximately 13 million shares of our common stock, representing approximately 11% of our then outstanding common stock. As of February 28, 2009, our outstanding restricted stock, restricted stock units and stock options to our employees, officers, directors and consultants were exercisable for up to 9 million shares of our common stock, representing approximately an additional eight percent of our then outstanding common stock. The conversion or exercise of some or all of our convertible notes, warrants, restricted stock, restricted stock units and options will significantly dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion or exercise could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. The market price of our stock has been and may continue to be highly volatile and historically, we have never paid dividends on our common stock. Our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the ticker symbol “INSM.” The market price of our stock has been and may continue to be highly volatile, and announcements by us or by third parties may have a significant impact on our stock price. These announcements may include: · our listing status on the Nasdaq Capital Market; · results of our clinical studies and preclinical studies, or those of our corporate partners or our competitors; · our operating results; · developments in our relationships with corporate partners; · developments affecting our corporate partners; · negative regulatory action or regulatory approval with respect to our announcement or our competitors’ announcements of new products, · government regulation, reimbursement changes and governmental investigation or audits related to us or to our products, · developments related to our patents or other proprietary rights or those of our competitors; · changes in the position of securities analysts with respect to our stock; and · operating results below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, which have particularly affected the market prices for emerging biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies, and which have often been unrelated to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have often instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our shareholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. The lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management. Future sales by existing shareholders may lower the price of our common stock, which could result in losses to our shareholders. Future sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the public market, or the possibility of such sales occurring, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock or our future ability to raise capital through an offering of equity securities. Substantially all of our common stock is freely tradable in the public market without restriction under the Securities Act, unless these shares are held by “affiliates” of our company, as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Historically we have never paid dividends on our common stock and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our businesses and, therefore, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends from earnings in the foreseeable future. We are currently reviewing options for the use of the proceeds from the sale of our FOB assets to Merck. One of these options may include a special dividend to common shareholders. Certain provisions of Virginia law, our articles of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws, and our Rights Plan make a hostile takeover by a third party difficult. Certain provisions of Virginia law and our articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could hamper a third party’s acquisition of, or discourage a third party from attempting to acquire control of us. The conditions could also limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions include: · a provision allowing us to issue preferred stock with rights senior to those of the common stock without any further vote or action by the holders of the common stock. The issuance of preferred stock could decrease the amount of earnings and assets available for distribution to the holders of common stock or could adversely affect the rights and powers, including voting rights, of the holders of the common stock. In certain circumstances, such issuance could have the effect of decreasing the market price of the common stock; · the existence of a staggered board of directors in which there are three classes of directors serving staggered three-year terms, thus expanding the time required to change the composition of a majority of directors and perhaps discouraging someone from making an acquisition proposal for us; · the amended and restated bylaws’ requirement that shareholders provide advance notice when nominating our directors; · the inability of shareholders to convene a shareholders’ meeting without the chairman of the board, the president or a majority of the board of directors first calling the meeting; and · the application of Virginia law prohibiting us from entering into a business combination with the beneficial owner of 10% or more of our outstanding voting stock for a period of three years after the 10% or greater owner first reached that level of stock ownership, unless we meet certain criteria. In addition, in May 2001, our board of directors approved the adoption of a Rights Plan under which shareholders received rights to purchase new shares of preferred stock if a person or group acquires 15% or more of our common stock. These provisions are intended to discourage acquisitions of 15% or more of our common stock without negotiations with the board. The rights trade with our common stock, unless and until they are separated upon the occurrence of certain future events. Our board of directors may redeem the rights at a price of $0.01 per right prior to the time a person acquires 15% or more of our common stock. ITEM 