ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Annual Report, investors should consider carefully the following risk factors when evaluating the Company’s business. Risks Relating to Our Business Intense Competition Could Materially Adversely Affect Our Market Share and Financial Performance The derivatives trading industry is highly competitive. Many of our competitors and potential competitors are more established or have greater financial resources than we do. Many of our competitors also have greater 14 Table of Contents access to capital markets as well as more substantial marketing capabilities and technological and personnel resources. We expect that competition will intensify in the future. Such competition is likely to include price competition, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our competitors have increased their development of electronic trading, which could substantially increase competition for some or all of the products and services we currently provide. In addition, our competitors may: • respond more quickly to competitive pressures; • develop products similar to the products we offer that are preferred by our customers; • develop non-traditional alternative risk transfer products that compete with our products; • price their products and services more competitively; • develop and expand their network infrastructures and service offerings more efficiently; • adapt more swiftly to new or emerging technologies and changes in client requirements; • utilize better, more user-friendly and more reliable technology; • take greater advantage of acquisitions, alliances and other opportunities; • more effectively market, promote and sell their products and services; and • exploit regulatory disparities between traditional, regulated exchanges and alternative markets that benefit from a reduced regulatory burden and a lower-cost business model. Our current and prospective competitors are numerous and include securities exchanges, options and other derivatives exchanges, market data and information vendors, electronic communications networks, crossing systems and similar entities, consortia of large customers and some of our clearing member firms and interdealer brokerage firms. We may also face competition from computer software companies and media and technology companies. The number of businesses providing internet-related financial services, or “e-commerce” businesses, has grown rapidly, and other companies have entered into, or are forming, joint ventures or consortia to provide services similar to those provided by us. As a result of this intense competition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our current customers or attract new customers to our markets, products and services. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will not lose customers because of more economical alternatives offered from competitors with comparable or possibly superior products, services or trade execution services. Our business could be materially adversely affected if we fail to attract new customers or lose a substantial number of our current customers to competitors. We May Not Be Successful in Executing Our Electronic Trading Strategy We have committed substantial resources to develop our electronic trading platform. We have both enhanced and improved our technology to facilitate increased efficiency, expansion of our customer base and enhancement of our competitive posture. We currently offer electronic trading in the U.S. and in several foreign countries. Through our NYMEX ACCESS® and NYMEX ClearPort® Trading platforms, we provide market participants the ability to conduct after-hours electronic trading for floor based products. In February 2006, the Company announced that its Board of Directors voted to offer side-by-side open outcry and electronic trading of its benchmark, physically settled energy futures contracts. Such electronic trading during open outcry trading hours (referred to as “side-by-side” trading) is expected to launch during the second quarter of 2006. We began to offer our products electronically over NYMEX ACCESS® in June 1993. With the introduction of our new electronic trading platform in 2003, NYMEX ClearPort® Trading, additional energy products and electricity products have been listed and are being made available for trading on a 23 hours-per-trading-day basis on the new electronic trading system. It is anticipated that during the second and third quarters of 2006, the products traded on the NYMEX ACCESS® electronic trading system will be migrated to NYMEX ClearPort® Trading, whereby NYMEX ACCESS® will cease to operate and NYMEX ClearPort® Trading will become our principal 15 Table of Contents electronic trading platform. While we believe these decisions will benefit our electronic trading capabilities, we cannot assure you these initiatives will be successful. Our failure to successfully execute our electronic trading strategy including commencement of side-by-side trading, could have a material adverse impact on our operations. We Are Subject to Certain Risks Associated with the Globalization of Our Business The globalization of our business, including our new ventures in London and Dubai, presents a number of inherent risks, including the following: • potential difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; • the evolving global tax treatment of electronic commerce, and the possibility that foreign governments could adopt onerous or inconsistent tax policies with respect to taxation of products traded on our markets or of the services that we provide; • tax rates in certain foreign countries may exceed those of the United States and foreign earnings may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; • listed derivatives markets are regulated in most developed nations, and it may be impractical for us to secure or maintain the regulatory approvals necessary for our markets to be accessible from one or more nations; • certain of our expenses are denominated in foreign currencies, which exposes us to the risk of fluctuating exchange rates and we may not fully eliminate this risk through our hedging activity; • general economic and political conditions in the countries from which our markets are accessed may have an adverse effect on our trading from those countries; and • it may be difficult or impossible to enforce our intellectual property rights in certain foreign countries. As we expand our business globally, our success will be dependent, in part, upon our ability to anticipate and manage these and other risks effectively. We cannot assure you that these and other factors will not have a material adverse effect on our business as a whole. Our Trading Volume, and Consequently Our Revenues and Profits, Could Be Materially Adversely Affected If We Are Unable to Retain Our Current Customers or Attract New Customers or If Derivative Trading Volume in General Decreases The success of our business depends, in part, on our ability to maintain and increase our trading volume and the resulting exchange fees. To do so, we must maintain and expand our product offerings, our customer base and our trade execution alternatives. Our success also depends on our ability to offer competitive prices and services in an increasingly price-sensitive business. In addition, our success depends on our ability to increase the base of individual customers who trade our products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to expand our product lines, or that we will be able to retain our current customers or attract new customers. We also cannot assure you that we will not lose customers to low-cost competitors with comparable or superior products, services or trade execution facilities. If we fail to expand our product offerings or execution facilities, or lose a substantial number of our current customers, or are unable to attract new customers, our business will be adversely affected. Furthermore, declines in the overall volume of trading derivatives may negatively impact market liquidity on our exchange, which would result in lower exchange fee revenues and could materially adversely affect our ability to retain our current customers or attract new customers. Our Business Depends in Large Part on Volatility in Energy Commodity Prices and Has Benefited from Record-High Oil Prices in Recent Years. Participants in the markets for energy commodities trading pursue a range of trading strategies. While some participants trade in order to satisfy physical consumption needs, others seek to hedge contractual price risk or 16 Table of Contents take speculative or arbitrage positions, seeking returns from price movements in different markets. Trading volume is driven primarily by the degree of volatility — the magnitude and frequency of fluctuations — in prices of commodities. Higher volatility increases the need to hedge contractual price risk and creates opportunities for speculative or arbitrage trading. Energy commodities markets historically have experienced significant price volatility. We cannot predict whether this pattern will continue, or for how long, or if this trend will reverse itself. Were there to be a sustained period of stability in the prices of energy commodities, we could experience lower trading volumes, slower growth or even declines in revenues as compared to recent periods. In addition to price volatility, we believe that the increase in global energy prices, particularly for crude oil, during the past few years has had a positive impact on the trading volume of global energy commodities, including trading volume in our markets. As oil prices have risen to record levels, we believe that additional participants have entered the markets for energy commodities trading to address their growing risk-management needs or to take advantage of greater trading opportunities. Were global crude oil prices to return to their historically lower levels, it is possible that many market participants, particularly the newer entrants, could reduce their trading activity or leave the trading markets altogether. Global energy prices are determined by many factors, including those listed below, that are beyond our control and are unpredictable. Consequently, we cannot predict whether global energy prices will remain at their current levels, nor can we predict the impact that these prices will have on our future revenues or profitability. Factors that are particularly likely to affect price volatility and price levels, and thus trading volume, include: • National and international economic and political conditions; • Volatility in price levels of the underlying commodities; • Market perception of stability in commodities and financial markets; • The level and volatility of interest rates and inflation; • Credit quality of market participants; and • Weather conditions affecting certain energy commodities. Any one or more of these factors may reduce price volatility or price levels in the markets for energy commodities trading, which in turn could reduce trading activity in those markets, including in our markets. Moreover, any reduction in trading activity could reduce liquidity — the ability to find ready buyers and sellers at current prices — which in turn could further discourage existing and potential market participants and thus accelerate any decline in the level of trading activity in these markets. In these circumstances, the markets with the highest trading volumes, and therefore the most liquidity, would likely have a growing competitive advantage over other markets. We are unable to predict whether or when these unfavorable conditions may arise in the future or, if they occur, how long or severely they will affect our trading volumes. A significant decline in our trading volumes, due to reduced volatility, lower prices or any other factor, could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, since our transaction fees would decline, and in particular on our profitability, since our revenues would decline faster than our expenses, many of which are fixed. Moreover, if these unfavorable conditions were to persist over a lengthy period of time, and our trading volumes were to decline substantially and for a long enough period, the liquidity of our markets — and the critical mass of transaction volume necessary to support viable markets — could be jeopardized. Our Revenues Depend Significantly Upon Trading Volumes in the Markets for Light Sweet Crude Oil Futures and Options Contracts and Natural Gas Futures and Options Contracts. A Decline in Volumes or in Our Market Share in these Contracts Could Jeopardize Our Ability to Remain Profitable and Grow. Our revenues depend significantly on trading volumes in the markets for light sweet crude oil futures and options contracts and natural gas futures and options contracts. A decline in trading volumes or in our market 17 Table of Contents share in these markets, the relative stability of commodity prices, competition, possible regulatory changes, or adverse publicity and government investigations related to recent events in the North American natural gas and power markets, could significantly reduce our revenues and jeopardize our ability to remain profitable and grow. In recent years, several of the largest and most active commercial participants in our North American natural gas and power markets have terminated or substantially reduced their energy commodities trading activities in light of increased regulatory scrutiny and enforcement actions brought against certain market participants. As a result, we are competing aggressively for new participants, many of which have only recently begun trading in our markets — most notably financial institutions, hedge funds and proprietary trading firms. Competition for these new market entrants among exchanges and trading operations across a variety of markets is intense. We Depend on Our Executive Officers and Other Key Personnel Our future success depends in large part upon the continued service of our executive officers, as well as various key management, technical and trading operations personnel. We believe that it is difficult to hire and retain executive management with the skills and abilities desirable for managing and operating a derivatives exchange. The loss of key management could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We cannot assure you that any of our key personnel will not voluntarily terminate his or her employment with us. Our future success also depends, in significant part, upon our ability to recruit and retain highly skilled and often specialized individuals as employees, particularly in light of the rapid pace of technological advances. The level of competition in our industry for people with these skills is intense, and from time to time we have experienced losses of key employees. Significant losses of key personnel, particularly to other employers with which we compete, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We May Not Effectively Manage Our Growth We intend to develop and grow our business. This growth may place a significant strain on our management, personnel, systems and other resources. We must continue to improve our operational and financial systems and managerial controls and procedures, and we will need to continue to expand, train and manage our technology workforce. We must also maintain close coordination among our technology, legal, compliance, accounting, finance, marketing and sales organizations. We cannot assure you that we will manage our growth effectively, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We Are Subject to Certain Risks Relating to the Operation of an Electronic Trading Platform We are subject to risks relating generally to our electronic trading platform, which include our failure or inability to: • acquire, develop or implement new, enhanced or updated versions of electronic trading software; • attract independent software vendors to write front-end software that effectively accesses our electronic trading platform; • increase the number of devices, such as trading and order routing terminals, capable of sending orders to our floor and to our electronic trading platform; and • respond effectively to technological developments or service offerings by competitors. If our electronic trading platform is not successful, our business or future financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected. 18 Table of Contents We Depend on Third Party Suppliers for Services That Are Important to Our Business We depend on a number of suppliers, such as banking, clearing and settlement organizations, telephone companies, online service providers, data processors and software and hardware vendors for elements of our trading, clearing and other systems, as well as communications and networking equipment, computer hardware and software and related support and maintenance. We cannot assure you that any of these providers will be able to continue to provide these services in an efficient, cost-effective manner or that they will be able to adequately expand their services to meet our needs. An interruption in or the cessation of service by any service provider and our inability to make alternative arrangements in a timely manner, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We May Be Unable to Keep Up With Rapid Technological Changes To remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the responsiveness, functionality, accessibility and features of our proprietary software, network distribution systems and other technologies. The financial services and e-commerce industries are characterized by rapid technological change, changes in use and customer requirements and preferences, frequent product and service introductions embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards and practices that could render obsolete our existing proprietary technology and systems. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to: • develop or license leading technologies useful in our business; • enhance our existing services; • develop new services and technology that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our existing and prospective clients; and • respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully implement new technologies or adapt our proprietary technology and transaction-processing systems to customer requirements or emerging industry standards. We cannot assure you that we will be able to respond in a timely manner to changing market conditions or customer requirements, and a failure to so respond could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Computer and Communications Systems Failures and Capacity Constraints Could Harm Our Reputation and Our Business Our failure to operate, monitor or maintain our computer systems and network services, including those systems and services related to our electronic trading platform, or, if necessary, to find replacements for our technology in a timely and cost-effective manner, could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition and operating results. We rely and expect to continue to rely on third parties for various computer and communications systems, such as telephone companies, online service providers, data processors, clearance organizations and software and hardware vendors. Failure of our systems or those of our third party providers may result in one or more of the following effects: • suspension of trading; • unanticipated disruptions in service to customers; • slower response times; • delays in trade execution; • decreased customer satisfaction; • incomplete or inaccurate accounting, recording or processing of trades; 19 Table of Contents • financial losses; • security breaches; • litigation or other customer claims; and • regulatory sanctions. Our status as a CFTC registrant requires that our trade execution and communications systems be able to handle anticipated present and future peak trading volume. Heavy use of our computer systems during peak trading times or at times of unusual market volatility could cause our systems to operate slowly or even to fail for periods of time. We monitor system loads and performance and regularly implement system upgrades to handle estimated increases in trading volume. However, we cannot assure you that our estimates of future trading volume will be accurate or that our systems will always be able to accommodate actual trading volume without failure or degradation of performance. System failure or degradation could lead our customers to file formal complaints with industry regulatory organizations, file lawsuits against us or cease doing business with us or could lead the CFTC or other regulators to initiate inquiries or proceedings for failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations. We cannot assure you that we will not experience system failures, outages or interruptions on either our electronic trading platform or open outcry platform that will materially adversely affect our business. Any such system failures, outages or interruptions could result from a number of factors, including power or telecommunications failure, acts of God, war or terrorism, human error, natural disasters, fire, sabotage, hardware or software malfunctions or defects, computer viruses, acts of vandalism or similar events. Any failures that cause an interruption in service or decrease our responsiveness, including failures caused by customer error or misuse of our systems, could impair our reputation, damage our brand name and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Acts of War or Terrorism May Result in the Closing of Our Trading and Clearing Operations and Render Our Back-up Data and Recovery Center Inoperable The September 11, 2001 terrorist attack on the World Trade Center, which was located near the building that houses the Company’s headquarters and primary trading floors, resulted in the closing of the Company’s trading and clearing operations for four business days, and rendered the Company’s back-up data and recovery center inoperable. In order to replace this site, the Company leased temporary space in New Jersey while it developed a plan for a permanent business recovery facility outside of New York City. In 2002, the Company leased space for a suitable permanent recovery site, where it invested in the development of a back-up trading floor and data center. The new recovery site became fully operational in the second quarter of 2003. However, we cannot make any assurances that future acts of war or terrorism will not result in the closing of our trading and clearing operations and render our back-up data and recovery center inoperable. Any such shut down of our operations may result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our Networks and Those of Our Third Party Service Providers May be Vulnerable to Security Risks We expect the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks to continue to be a critical element of our operations. Our networks and those of our third party service providers, our member firms and our customers may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses and other security problems. Persons who circumvent security measures could wrongfully use our information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems, including reputational harm and litigation, caused by any breaches. Although we intend to continue to implement industry-standard security measures, these measures may prove to be inadequate and result in system failures and delays that could lower trading volume and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 20 Table of Contents Our Decision to Operate Both Electronic and Open outcry Trading Platforms May Materially Adversely Affect Our Operating Costs, Markets and Profitability It is expensive in terms of costs and management and other resources to continue operating two trading platforms for the same products. We may not have sufficient resources to adequately fund or manage both trading platforms. This may result in resource allocation decisions that materially adversely impact one or both platforms. Also, if we continue to operate both trading platforms, liquidity on each may be less than the liquidity on a competitive unified trading platform, making our trading platforms less attractive and less competitive. As a result, our total revenues may be lower than if we operated only electronic trading or only open outcry trading platforms. Moreover, to the extent that we continue to operate two trading platforms, our boards and management may make decisions which are designed to enhance the continued viability of two separate trading platforms. These decisions may have a negative impact on the overall competitiveness of each trading platform. Our Market Data Fee Revenue May Decline Due to Industry Consolidation Among Market Data Vendors We sell market data relating to proprietary prices of contracts executed on our divisions to vendors who redistribute this information to market participants and others. The level of market data fees is dependent upon the number of vendors and the number of end users receiving data through the vendor redistribution process. We rely on our market data vendors to supply accurate information regarding the number of subscribers that are accessing our market data. Industry consolidation among our market data vendors could result in a decline in market data revenues. If we are unable to recover that lost revenue through terminal usage fees, increased transaction fees or the development of alternative market data products, we could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Risks Relating to Regulation and Litigation We are subject to the following risks in connection with the regulation of, and litigation relating to, our business. The Legal Framework for Our Industry Has Been Modified to Lower Barriers to Entry and Decrease Continuing Regulatory Costs for Competitors Our industry has been subject to several fundamental regulatory changes, including changes in the statute under which we have operated since 1974. In the past, the Commodity Exchange Act generally required all futures contracts to be executed on an exchange that has been approved by the CFTC. The exchange trading requirement was modified by CFTC regulations to permit privately negotiated swap contracts to be transacted in the over-the-counter market. The CFTC exemption under which the over-the-counter derivative market operated precluded the over-the-counter market from avoiding CFTC regulation for exchange-like electronic transaction systems and clearing. These regulatory restrictions on the over-the-counter market were repealed by the CFMA. It is possible that the chief beneficiaries of the CFMA will be over-the-counter dealers and competitors that operate or intend to open electronic trading facilities or to conduct their futures business directly among themselves on a bilateral basis. The customers who may access such electronic exchanges or engage in such bilateral private transactions are the same customers who conduct the vast majority of their financial business on regulated exchanges. The CFMA also permits banks, broker-dealers and some of their affiliates to engage in foreign exchange futures transactions for or with retail customers without being subjected to regulation under the Commodity Exchange Act. In the future, our industry may become subject to new regulations or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing regulations. We cannot predict the extent to which any future regulatory changes may materially adversely affect our business. Our Members May Not Have the Financial Resources Available to Pay the Dues, Fees or Assessments Levied By Us and We May Not Be Able to Prevent Contract Defaults NYMEX Division bylaws authorize its Board of Directors to fix the annual dues of NYMEX Division members and to levy assessments as it determines to be necessary. COMEX Division provides its Board of 21 Table of Contents Directors with similar powers relating to dues, assessments and fees with respect to COMEX Division members, provided that such dues and assessments (or fee surcharges in lieu thereof) may not be imposed (other than in connection with certain merger-related events) without the consent of the COMEX Governors Committee and that the ability of COMEX Division’s Board of Directors to impose such fees are subject to the limitations. The Exchange, as a self-regulatory organization, has instituted detailed risk-management policies and procedures to guard against default risk with respect to contracts traded on the Exchange. The Exchange also has extensive surveillance and compliance operations and procedures to monitor and to enforce compliance with rules pertaining to the trading, position sizes and financial condition of members. The Exchange has powers and procedures designed to backstop contract obligations in the event that a contract default occurs on the Exchange including authority to levy assessments on any of its clearing members if, after a default by another clearing member, there are insufficient funds available to cover a deficit. Despite the Company’s authority to levy assessments or impose fees, there can be no assurance that the relevant members will have the financial resources available to pay, or will choose to be expelled from membership rather than pay, any dues, fees or assessments. Moreover, despite the risk mitigation techniques adopted by, and the other powers and procedures implemented by the Company, which are designed to, among other things, minimize the potential risks associated with the occurrence of contract defaults on the Company, there can be no assurance that these powers and procedures will prevent contract defaults or will otherwise function to preserve the liquidity of the Company. Member or Employee Misconduct Could Harm Us and is Difficult to Detect Although we perform significant self-regulatory functions, there have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct in the futures industry in recent years. We run the risk that persons who use our markets or our employees will engage in fraud or other misconduct, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious reputational harm. It is not always possible to deter misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. We Are Subject to Significant Risks of Litigation Many aspects of our business involve substantial risks of liability. For example, dissatisfied customers frequently make claims regarding quality of trade execution, improperly settled trades, mismanagement or even fraud against their service providers. We may become subject to these claims as the result of failures or malfunctions of systems and services provided by us. We could incur significant legal expenses defending claims, even those without merit. Although the Commodity Exchange Act and our CFTC-approved disclaimer and limitation of liability rules offer us some protections, an adverse resolution of any lawsuits or claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition and/or operating results. We are currently subject to various litigation matters. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in defending any of these matters, and resulting adverse judgments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. For a description of our material litigation see Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Any Infringement by Us on Patent Rights of Others Could Result in Litigation and Could Materially Adversely Affect Our Operations Our competitors as well as other companies and individuals may obtain, and may be expected to obtain in the future, patents that concern products or services related to the types of products and services we offer or plan to offer. We cannot assure you that we are or will be aware of all patents containing claims that may pose a risk of infringement by our products, services or technologies. Claims of infringement are not uncommon in our industry. For example, in August 2004, Trading Technologies International, Inc. filed a lawsuit against eSpeed, Inc., alleging infringement of certain patents relating to Trading Technologies’ trading software. Trading Technologies has indicated that it intends to protect its intellectual property, and we cannot assure you that Trading Technologies will not take such actions in the future. 22 Table of Contents In general, if one or more of our products, services or technologies were to infringe patents held by others, we may be required to stop developing or marketing the products, services or technologies, to obtain licenses to develop and market the services from the holders of the patents or to redesign the products, services or technologies in such a way as to avoid infringing on the patent claims. If we were unable to obtain these licenses and were required to redesign or stop developing or marketing our products, services or technologies to avoid infringement, we may not be able to redesign, and could be required to stop developing or marketing, our products, services or technologies, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We May Not Be Able to Protect Our Intellectual Property Rights We rely primarily on trade secret, copyright, service mark, trademark law and contractual protections to protect our proprietary technology and other proprietary rights. Notwithstanding that we take precautions to protect our intellectual property rights, it is possible that third parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology without authorization or otherwise infringe on our rights. We also seek to protect our software and databases as trade secrets and under copyright law. We have copyright registrations for certain of our software, user manuals and databases. The copyright protection accorded to databases, however, is fairly limited. While the arrangement and selection of data generally are protectable, in many instances the actual data are not, and others may be free to create databases that would perform the same function. In some cases, including a number of our most important products, there may be no effective legal recourse against duplication by competitors. In addition, in the future, we may have to rely on litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets, determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Any such litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs to us and diversions of our resources, either of which could materially adversely affect our business. Risks Relating to our Pending Transaction with General Atlantic If the Pending Transaction with General Atlantic Is Consummated, Our Capital and Governance Structure Will Significantly Change On November 14, 2005, we entered into a stock purchase agreement with investment funds affiliated with General Atlantic. The stock purchase agreement was subsequently amended on February 10, 2006, to reflect changes to the transaction terms. If the transaction is approved by our stockholders, General Atlantic will invest $160 million for a 10% preferred stock investment in us. As part of the transaction, NYMEX Holdings, Inc. and New York Mercantile Exchange, Inc., NYMEX Holdings’ wholly-owned subsidiary, will each adopt a new certificate of incorporation and bylaws. Under the new certificates of incorporation and bylaws that will be adopted upon the closing of the General Atlantic transaction, open outcry trading will be maintained for at least five (5) years and certain trading rights protections will be afforded to the owners of the Class A memberships (who will not necessarily be stockholders of the Company, but rather will be members of the Exchange). None of General Atlantic, the Company’s Board of Directors nor the Company’s stockholders will have any ability to change, or any responsibility or liability with respect to these protections. In addition, if the Exchange ever terminates open outcry trading of a particular NYMEX Division product or at least 90% of contract volume of such product is from electronic trading, owners of Class A memberships will receive additional payments based upon the electronic trading of that product. Class A Members will also receive the fees (net of applicable expenses directly related to the establishment and maintenance of the Program) charged by the Exchange to participants in the NYMEX miNY™ Designee Program for NYMEX miNY™s traded on the floor of the Exchange (the “Program”), for as long as such Program exists. Accordingly, owners of Class A memberships have interests that differ from or may conflict with those of holders of the Company’s common stock. The new certificates of incorporation and bylaws that will be adopted upon the closing of the General Atlantic transaction will also “de-staple” our common stock from the Exchange memberships. To avoid creating 23 Table of Contents an accidental illiquid market in our common stock following the “de-stapling,” we will be imposing new restrictions upon the transfer of our common stock that will be in effect until we conduct an initial public offering. There can be no assurance that our stockholders will approve an initial public offering. If we do conduct an initial public offering, we will have typical transfer restrictions in order to facilitate the establishment of an orderly market after an initial public offering, one-third of the pre-IPO common stock will be subject to such transfer restrictions for 180 days after the initial public offering, one-third will be subject to such transfer restrictions for 360 days thereafter and one-third will be subject to such transfer restrictions for 540 days thereafter. The new transfer restrictions may continue to have the same effect that our current transfer restrictions have of impeding or discouraging a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest or other potential acquisition proposal, even if such a transaction may be favorable to the interests of some or all of the stockholders. This effect might prevent stockholders from realizing an opportunity to sell all or a portion of their shares of common stock at a premium above market prices. In addition, the new transfer restrictions may prevent the assumption of control by a holder of a large block of the common stock and the removal of incumbent directors and management, even if such removal may be beneficial to some or all of the stockholders of the Company. The General Atlantic transaction and the new certificates of incorporation and bylaws are all described in more detail in the definitive proxy statement for the special meeting of stockholders scheduled for March 13, 2006 which was mailed to stockholders of record as of February 8, 2006. We encourage you to read it in its entirety. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 