Item 1A. Risk Factors. The Company must respond to changes in technology and consumer behavior to remain competitive. Technology used in the media and entertainment industry continues to evolve rapidly, and advances in that technology have led to multiple methods for the distribution, storage and consumption of content. These technological developments have driven and reinforced changes in consumer behavior as consumers seek more control over when, where and how they consume content. These changes in technology and consumer behavior have resulted in a number of challenges and risks for the Company. For example, technological developments may disrupt traditional distribution platforms by enabling content owners to provide content directly to distributors and consumers, thus bypassing traditional content aggregators such as the Company’s cable networks. The shift to new distribution platforms, many of which are controlled by other companies, could also lead to the loss of distribution control and impede direct relationships with consumers. Further, the Company may incur significant costs as it continues to acquire new expertise, software and infrastructure to accommodate its continued development of digital distribution platforms. In addition, the increasing availability of content online could negatively affect consumer demand for the Company’s content, products and services, the prices content aggregators are willing to pay to license the Company’s content and advertising rates and demand. The Company’s failure to protect the value of its content while adapting to emerging technologies and changes in consumer behavior could have a significant adverse effect on the Company’s businesses and results of operations. Furthermore, new technology or business initiatives supported by the Company may not be embraced by consumers, advertisers or others in the media and entertainment industry, which could have a significant adverse effect on the Company’s competitive position and its businesses. The Company faces risks relating to increasing competition for the leisure and entertainment time and discretionary spending of consumers due in part to technological developments and changes in consumer behavior. The Company’s businesses compete with each other and all other sources of entertainment, news and other information, including feature films, television, premium pay television services, SVOD services, the Internet, home video products, videogames, social networking, print media, pirated content, live sports and other events and radio broadcasts, for consumers’ leisure and entertainment time and discretionary spending. The number of media and entertainment choices available to consumers has increased and intensified the challenges posed by audience fragmentation. The popularity of the Company’s content is difficult to predict, can change rapidly and could lead to fluctuations in the Company’s revenues, and low public acceptance of the Company’s content may adversely affect its results of operations. The production and distribution of feature films, television programming, videogames, magazines and other content are inherently risky businesses, largely because the revenues derived from the sale or licensing of such content depend primarily on widespread public acceptance, which is difficult to predict. Furthermore, many of the Company’s businesses increasingly depend on the acceptance of their content and products by consumers outside the U.S. In addition, the Company must invest substantial amounts in the production of feature films, programming for its cable networks and premium pay and basic tier television services and the development of videogames before it learns whether these feature films, programs and products will reach anticipated levels of popularity with consumers. The Company also faces increasing pressure to 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements develop successful new feature film franchises or build on existing brands by leveraging existing intellectual property, including through the development of sequels. As more television networks, premium pay television services and SVOD services produce and acquire more programming, the Company faces increasing pressure to produce and acquire more compelling programming and to optimize the mix of acquired, original and sports programming on its cable networks and premium pay and basic tier television services. The popularity of the Company’s content depends on many factors, only some of which are within the Company’s control. Examples include the quality and public acceptance of competing content (including locally produced content) available or released at or near the same time, the availability of alternative forms of leisure and entertainment activities, the Company’s ability to maintain or develop strong brand awareness and target key audience demographics, marketing by affiliates, and the Company’s ability to successfully anticipate and adapt to changes in consumer tastes and behavior in many countries and territories on a timely basis. If the Company is not able to create and distribute content that is popular with consumers and attractive to advertisers and affiliates, the Company’s revenues may decline or fail to grow to the extent the Company anticipates when making investment decisions. The popularity of the Company’s content is reflected in: • the theatrical performance of the Company’s feature films; • the ratings for the television programming produced by the Company and the television programming aired by the Company’s cable networks; • the demand for television programming produced by the Company from syndication outlets and SVOD services, • sales of the Company’s home video releases and videogames; • the number of subscribers to the Company’s domestic premium pay television services and international premium pay and basic tier television services; • the Company’s magazine circulation; and • the number of unique visitors to the Company’s websites. The underperformance of a feature film, particularly an “event” film (which typically has high production and marketing costs) or a feature film that is part of a franchise, can have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations in both the year of release and in the future. Historically, there has been a correlation between a feature film’s domestic box office success and success in subsequent distribution channels. Consequently, the underperformance of a feature film at the box office may adversely affect revenues from other distribution channels, such as home entertainment, premium pay television services, and sales of videogames and licensed consumer products based on such film. In addition, due to the decline in the sales of DVDs, the success of a feature film is much more dependent on public acceptance at the box office. A decline in the ratings or audience delivery of the television programming produced by the Company may lead to the cancellation of a program and can negatively affect license fees and syndication results. A decline in the popularity of the programming aired on the Company’s cable networks can negatively affect subscription revenues, advertising demand and rates and a network’s distribution potential. A decline in the popularity of television programming aired by the Company’s premium pay and basic tier television services can negatively affect subscription revenues and content sales as well as the distribution potential of the Company’s premium pay and basic tier television services. A decline in the popularity of the Company’s magazines can negatively affect subscription and advertising revenues. The failure to renew affiliate agreements on favorable terms or the inability to renew affiliate agreements could cause the Company’s revenues to decline. The Company depends on agreements with affiliates for the distribution of its cable networks and premium pay and basic tier television services and there can be no assurance that these affiliate agreements will be renewed in the future on terms that are acceptable to the Company. The inability to renew affiliate agreements or the renewal of affiliate agreements on less favorable terms may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. Consolidation among affiliates may make it more difficult for the Company to renew these agreements on terms that are acceptable to the Company. A decrease in demand for the Company’s television programming could adversely affect the Company’s revenues. The Company is a leading supplier of U.S.-produced scripted television programming as well as a leader in distributing U.S.-produced episodic programming overseas. The Company continues to be largely 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements dependent on the strength of the U.S. broadcast and basic cable networks and their demand for the Company’s television programming. If there is a decrease in the demand for the Company’s television programming, it could reduce the number of new television series launched each year, decrease the overall scale of the Company’s television production business or diminish the aggregate license fees generated by programming in initial broadcast windows and in subsequent syndication windows. Furthermore, vertically integrated networks could elect to buy more shows from their in-house production studios, driven in part by their desire to have more control over digital rights. In addition, local television stations may face decreasing television viewership that would adversely impact their advertising revenues. This could harm the Company’s ability to obtain the per-episode license fees in syndication that it has received in the past. In international territories, the increasing popularity of locally originated television and theatrical content could result in decreased demand, fewer available broadcast slots, and lower licensing and syndication revenues for U.S.-produced television programming. The inability of the Company to acquire or produce popular programming on acceptable terms could adversely affect its operating results. The Company obtains a significant portion of the programming for its cable networks, such as motion pictures, television series and sports events, from movie studios, television production companies and sports organizations. The Company has agreements with certain movie studios that provide its premium pay television services with exclusive rights to exhibit the studios’ original feature films during specified time periods. Competition for popular programming is intense, and the growing number of SVOD services has increased the competition for programming both in the U.S. and internationally. The Company may have to increase the price it is willing to pay to avoid being outbid by its competitors for the rights to programming or in connection with the renewal of programming it currently licenses, and the cost to license such programming may increase due to such competition. The cost may also increase as the Company and other companies seek the right to exhibit programming exclusively during the applicable license period or on new distribution platforms. The Company also produces programming and it incurs costs for creative talent, including directors, actors, writers and producers, as well as costs relating to development and marketing. The increased amount of original programming being aired by basic cable networks and premium pay and basic tier television services and, to a lesser extent, SVOD services could increase costs for talent due to increased competition for their services. The Company also incurs significant newsgathering costs at its cable news networks. The loss of subscribers could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and future revenue growth. If video service rates charged by affiliates continue to increase or economic conditions worsen, subscribers may cancel their multichannel video service subscriptions, reduce the number of services they subscribe to or elect to subscribe to a lower-priced tier or offering that may not include all of the Company’s cable networks or premium pay or basic tier television services. In addition, technological developments and changes in consumer behavior, particularly among younger consumers, could result in such consumers choosing not to subscribe to multichannel video services. The Company’s cable networks and premium pay and basic tier television services also face increasing competition from SVOD services. If consumers elect to utilize these services as an alternative to multichannel video services provided by affiliates, the Company’s cable networks and premium pay and basic tier television services may experience a lack of growth or declines in subscribers. In addition, if affiliates reduce their marketing efforts associated with the Company’s premium pay or basic tier television services or choose to promote their own movie and television programming or on-demand offerings in lieu of the Company’s premium pay or basic tier television services, the number of subscribers to such networks and services, respectively, could decline. In addition, the loss of carriage on the most widely distributed programming tiers, including as a result of an affiliate’s creation of lower-priced video packages or tiers or genre-based packages that do not include the Company’s cable networks or premium pay or basic tier television services, could reduce the distribution of the Company’s programming. A decrease in the number of an affiliate’s subscribers or the number of subscribers to the Company’s cable networks, domestic premium pay television services or international premium pay and basic tier television services could result in a decrease in the Company’s subscription and advertising revenues. Sales of DVDs have been declining, which may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. Several factors are contributing to an industry-wide decline in DVD sales both domestically and internationally, 24 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements which has had an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. These factors include consumers shifting to subscription rental services and discount rental kiosks, which generate significantly less profit per transaction for the Company than physical disc sales; changing retailer strategies and initiatives (e.g., reduction in floor space devoted to Blu-ray Discs and DVDs); retail store closures; the general economic downturn in the U.S. and many regions around the world; increasing competition for consumer discretionary time and spending; and piracy. The Company’s efforts to offset the decline in DVD sales and its efforts to make digital ownership of films more compelling to consumers (e.g., Blu-ray Disc sales, EST and establishing later rental windows) may not be successful or it may be several years before consumers accept these offerings. The Company’s businesses operate in highly competitive industries, and the failure to compete successfully may have an adverse effect on the Company’s businesses or results of operations. The Company’s businesses face intense competition in the U.S. and other countries from many different sources, including numerous direct competitors and other media, including pirated content. Consolidation and vertical integration in the media and entertainment industry have resulted in increased competition for the Company, and additional consolidation or vertical integration in the future would further intensify competition for distribution. In addition, consolidation of affiliates has resulted in them having greater negotiating power, and increased consolidation or vertical integration of such affiliates could adversely affect the Company’s ability to maintain or obtain distribution and/or marketing for its cable networks and premium pay and basic tier television services, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The ability of the Company’s businesses to compete successfully depends on many factors, including their ability to develop, market and distribute high-quality popular content, adapt to and exploit technological developments, respond to changes in consumer behavior and achieve widespread distribution, and there can be no assurance that the Company and its businesses will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or potential competitors. The Company is exposed to risks associated with weak domestic and global economic conditions and increased volatility and disruption in the financial markets. The Company’s businesses, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by weak domestic and global economic conditions. Factors that affect economic conditions include the level of household formation, the rate of unemployment, the level of consumer confidence and changes in consumer spending habits. The Company also faces risks associated with the impact of weak domestic and global economic conditions on advertisers, affiliates, suppliers, wholesale distributors, retailers, insurers, theater operators and others with which it does business. For example, if retailers file for reorganization under bankruptcy laws or otherwise experience negative effects on their businesses due to volatile or weak economic conditions, it could reduce the number of outlets for the Company’s DVDs, Blu-ray Discs, videogames and magazines. Certain of the Company’s operations are conducted in foreign currencies, and the value of these currencies fluctuates relative to the U.S. dollar. As a result, the Company is exposed to exchange rate fluctuations, which in the past have had, and in the future could have, an adverse effect on its results of operations in a given period. Increased volatility and disruptions in the financial markets could make it more difficult and more expensive for the Company to refinance outstanding indebtedness and obtain new financing. In addition, the adoption of new statutes and regulations, the implementation of recently enacted laws or new interpretations or the enforcement of laws and regulations applicable to the financial markets or the financial services industry could result in a reduction in the amount of available credit or an increase in the cost of credit. Disruptions in the financial markets can also adversely affect the Company’s lenders, insurers, customers and counterparties, including vendors, retailers and film co-financing partners. For instance, the inability of the Company’s counterparties to obtain capital on acceptable terms could impair their ability to perform under their agreements with the Company and lead to negative effects on the Company, including business disruptions, decreased revenues, increases in bad debt expenses and, in the case of film co-financing partners, greater risk to the Company with respect to the performance of its feature films. A decline in advertising expenditures or deterioration in advertising market conditions or other factors that adversely impact advertising could cause the Company’s revenues and operating results to decline. The Company derives substantial revenues from the sale of advertising on its cable networks, syndicated programming, magazines and websites. Expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting domestic and 25 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements global economic conditions, as well as budgeting and buying patterns. If the economic prospects of advertisers or current economic conditions worsen, such conditions could alter advertisers’ spending priorities. For example, corporate marketing cutbacks could result in advertising on the Company’s cable networks purchased in the upfront market being cancelled. Declines in consumer spending on advertisers’ products due to weak economic conditions could also indirectly negatively impact the Company’s advertising revenues, because advertisers may reduce advertising budgets or not perceive as much value from advertising if consumers are purchasing fewer of their products or services. Advertising expenditures also could be negatively affected by other factors, such as shifting societal norms, pressure from public interest groups, economic uncertainty and changes in laws and regulations. In addition, advertising expenditures could be negatively affected by natural disasters (including extreme weather), acts of terrorism, political uncertainty or hostilities, as there may be uninterrupted news coverage of such events that disrupts regular programming. Advertising sales and rates depend on audience size, and advertisers’ willingness to purchase advertising from the Company and the price they are willing to pay may be adversely affected by a decline in audience ratings, the number of unique visitors at the Company’s websites or in circulation or magazine readership for the Company’s magazines. If audience levels decline significantly, the Company’s cable networks generally will be required to provide additional advertising units to advertisers to reach agreed upon audience thresholds. This may result in the Company’s cable networks having less inventory available to sell to advertisers or to use to promote their own programming. Time-shifted and on-demand viewing of programming and viewership on new platforms or devices that is not being measured by the television ratings system could have a negative impact on ratings for the television programming produced by the Company and the television programming aired by the Company’s cable networks. For example, while the current television industry ratings standard measures live commercial viewing plus three days of DVR and VOD playback, the growing viewership that occurs after three days is excluded from these ratings. As a result, the inability to capture the total viewership of the Company’s programming could adversely affect the Company’s ability to fully monetize its advertising inventory. Similarly, the advent of digital magazines continues to shift how consumers interact with magazines and how the audience for digital magazines is measured, which could negatively impact the rates advertisers are willing to pay for advertising in the Company’s magazines. The Company faces risks relating to doing business internationally that could adversely affect its businesses and operating results. The Company’s businesses operate and serve customers worldwide, and the Company is focused on expanding its international operations in key territories, including through acquisitions and other strategic investments. The failure to achieve sufficient scale in these territories could negatively affect the Company’s ability to compete in these territories. In addition, there are risks inherent in doing business internationally, including: • issues related to integrating and managing international operations; • issues related to managing investments in companies organized or formed under the laws of foreign countries; • potentially adverse tax developments; • lack of sufficient protection for intellectual property in some countries; • territorial restrictions on content licensing; • currency exchange restrictions, export controls and currency devaluation risks in some foreign countries, including, but not limited to, Venezuela; • the existence in some countries of statutory shareholder minority rights and restrictions on foreign direct ownership; • the existence of quotas; • issues related to occupational safety and adherence to diverse local labor laws and regulations; • political or social unrest; • higher than anticipated costs of entry; • the presence of corruption in certain countries; • the absence of good diplomatic relations between the U.S. and certain countries; and • the potential for government appropriation of the Company’s assets. 26 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements One or more of these factors could harm the Company’s international operations and its operating results. Piracy of the Company’s content may decrease the revenues received from the exploitation of its content and adversely affect its businesses and profitability. The piracy of the Company’s content, products and other intellectual property poses significant challenges for the Company. Technological developments, such as the proliferation of cloud-based storage and streaming, increased broadband Internet speed and penetration and increased speed of mobile data transmission have made it easier to create, transmit, distribute and store high quality unauthorized copies of content in unprotected digital formats, which has in turn encouraged the creation of highly scalable businesses that facilitate, and in many instances financially benefit from, such piracy. Piracy is particularly prevalent in many parts of the world that lack effective copyright and technical legal protections or enforcement measures, and illegitimate operators based in these parts of the world can attract viewers from anywhere in the world. The proliferation of unauthorized copies and piracy of the Company’s content, products and intellectual property or the products it licenses from others could result in a reduction of the revenues that the Company receives from the legitimate sale, licensing and distribution of its content and products. The Company devotes substantial resources to protecting its content, products and intellectual property, but there can be no assurance that the Company’s efforts to enforce its rights and combat piracy will be successful. The Company may suffer if it cannot continue to license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which its businesses depend. The Company relies on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, tradenames and other proprietary rights, as well as contractual arrangements, including licenses, to establish, maintain and protect its intellectual property rights and brands. However, the Company’s intellectual property rights, and its ability to license and exploit them in accordance with past custom and practice, could be challenged or invalidated, it could have difficulty protecting or obtaining such rights or the rights may not be sufficient to permit it to take advantage of business opportunities, which could result in costly redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product and service offerings or other competitive harm. In addition, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which the Company operates or its content is available. The Company also may not be able to acquire or maintain appropriate domain names in all countries in which it does business. The Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers plans to expand the Internet and has accepted over 1,900 applications for new generic top level domains (i.e., the names that appear to the right of the period in domain names, such as .com, .net and .org), which could significantly change the structure of the Internet and make it significantly more expensive for the Company to protect its intellectual property on the Internet. The Company may be unable to prevent others from acquiring domain names, including generic top level domain names that are similar to, infringe on, or diminish the value of, the Company’s trademarks and other proprietary rights. Any impairment of the Company’s intellectual property rights or brands, including due to changes in U.S. or foreign intellectual property laws or the absence of effective legal protections or enforcement measures, could adversely impact the Company’s businesses, financial condition and results of operations. The Company has been, and may be in the future, subject to claims of intellectual property infringement, which could require the Company to change its business practices. Successful claims that the Company infringes the intellectual property of others could require the Company to enter into royalty or licensing agreements on unfavorable terms, incur substantial monetary liability or be enjoined preliminarily or permanently from further use of the intellectual property in question. This could require the Company to change its business practices and limit its ability to compete effectively. Even if the Company believes that claims of intellectual property infringement are without merit, defending against the claims can be time-consuming and costly and divert management’s attention and resources away from its businesses. The Company’s businesses are subject to labor interruption. The Company and certain of its suppliers retain the services of writers, directors, actors, athletes, technicians, trade employees and others involved in the development and production of feature films, television and digital programming and magazines who are covered by collective bargaining agreements. If the Company or its suppliers are unable to renew expiring collective bargaining agreements, it is possible that the affected unions could take actions in the form of strikes, work slowdowns or work stoppages. Collective bargaining agreements with the Writers Guild of America, West Inc., the Writers Guild of America, East Inc. and SAG-AFTRA expire in mid-2014 and negotiations are expected to commence in early 2014. The collective bargaining agreement with the Newspaper Guild of New York also 27 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements expires in 2014. In addition, the musicians who are members of the American Federation of Musicians have been working under an expired contract since February 2013. Strikes, work slowdowns or work stoppages or the possibility of such actions and attempts to unionize could cause delays in the production of the Company’s feature films, television and digital programming and magazines. The Company could also incur higher costs from such actions, new collective bargaining agreements or the renewal of collective bargaining agreements on less favorable terms. Many of the Company’s collective bargaining agreements are industry-wide agreements, and the Company may lack practical control over the negotiations and terms of these agreements. Union or labor disputes or player lock-outs relating to professional sports leagues for which the Company has the rights to produce and telecast live games or events may preclude the Company from telecasting scheduled games or events, which could have a negative impact on the Company’s revenues. Further, the loss of television programming due to such disputes could negatively impact the Company’s promotional and marketing opportunities. Depending on their duration, such union or labor disputes or player lock-outs could have an adverse effect on the Company’s businesses or results of operations. Service disruptions or failures of the Company’s or its vendors’ information systems and networks as a result of computer viruses, misappropriation of data or other malfeasance, natural disasters (including extreme weather), accidental releases of information or other similar events, may disrupt the Company’s businesses, damage its reputation or have a negative impact on its results of operations. Because information systems, networks and other technologies are critical to many of the Company’s operating activities, shutdowns or service disruptions at the Company or vendors that provide information systems, networks or other services to the Company pose increasing risks. Such disruptions may be caused by events such as computer hacking, dissemination of computer viruses, worms and other destructive or disruptive software, denial of service attacks and other malicious activity, as well as power outages, natural disasters (including extreme weather), terrorist attacks, or other similar events. Such events could have an adverse impact on the Company and its customers, including degradation or disruption of service, loss of data and damage to equipment and data. In addition, system redundancy may be ineffective or inadequate, and the Company’s disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient to cover all eventualities. Significant events could result in a disruption of the Company’s operations, customer or advertiser dissatisfaction, damage to the Company’s reputation or brands or a loss of customers or revenues. In addition, the Company may not have adequate insurance coverage to compensate for any losses associated with such events. The Company is also subject to risks caused by misappropriation, misuse, leakage, falsification or intentional or accidental release or loss of data maintained in the information systems and networks of the Company and its vendors, including personnel, customer and vendor confidential data. In addition, outside parties may attempt to penetrate the Company’s systems or those of its vendors or fraudulently induce employees or customers of the Company or employees of its vendors to disclose sensitive information to obtain or gain access to the Company’s data. If a material breach of the Company’s security or that of its vendors occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of the Company’s security measures could be harmed, the Company could lose customers and advertisers, and its reputation, brands and credibility could be damaged. The Company could be required to expend significant amounts of money and other resources to repair or replace information systems or networks. In addition, the Company could be subject to regulatory actions and claims made by consumers and groups in private litigation involving privacy issues related to consumer data collection and use practices and other data privacy laws and regulations, including claims for misuse or inappropriate disclosure of data, as well as unfair or deceptive practices. Although the Company develops and maintains systems designed to prevent these events from occurring, the development and maintenance of these systems is costly and requires ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change and efforts to overcome security measures become more sophisticated. Moreover, despite the Company’s efforts, the possibility of these events occurring cannot be eliminated entirely. As the Company distributes more of its content digitally, outsources more of its information systems to vendors, engages in more electronic transactions with consumers and relies more on cloud-based information systems, the related security risks will increase and the Company will need to expend additional resources to protect its technology, information systems and data. 28 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Service disruptions or the failure of communication satellites or transmitter facilities used by the Company’s cable networks and premium pay and basic tier television services could have a negative impact on the Company’s revenues. The Company’s cable networks and premium pay and basic tier television services use communication satellites and transmitter facilities to transmit their programming to affiliates. Currently, there are a limited number of communications satellites available for the transmission of programming. These satellites and facilities are critical to the Company’s ability to deliver its programming, and shutdowns or service disruptions pose significant risks to the Company’s businesses and its reputation. Such events may be caused by power outages, natural disasters (including extreme weather), terrorist attacks, failures or impairments of communications satellites or on-ground uplinks or downlinks used to transmit programming, or other similar events. The Company’s businesses are subject to regulation in the U.S. and internationally, which could cause the Company to incur additional costs or liabilities or disrupt its business practices. The Company’s businesses are subject to a variety of U.S. and international laws and regulations. See Item 1, “Business — Regulatory Matters,” for a description of significant U.S. federal, state, local and international laws, regulations, regulatory agency inquiries, rulemaking proceedings and other developments affecting the Company’s businesses. The Company could incur substantial costs to comply with new laws or regulations or changes in interpretations of laws or regulations or substantial penalties or other liabilities if it fails to comply with them. Compliance with new laws or regulations also could cause the Company to change or limit its business practices in a manner that is adverse to its businesses. In addition, if there are changes in laws or regulations that provide protections that the Company relies on in conducting its businesses, they could subject the Company to greater risk of liability and could increase compliance costs or limit the Company’s ability to operate certain lines of business. The Company’s enterprise efficiency initiatives present various risks, including that the Company may not realize the financial and strategic goals relating to the initiatives. The Company has launched multi-year enterprise efficiency initiatives to deliver certain business support services (e.g., real estate and certain information technology and human resources functions) centrally to the Company’s divisions. In connection with these initiatives, the Company may incur greater than anticipated expenses, fail to realize anticipated benefits, experience business disruptions or have difficulty executing the initiatives. If the Time Separation, the AOL Separation or the TWC Separation is determined to be taxable for income tax purposes, Time Warner and/or Time Warner’s stockholders who receive shares of Time Inc. or received shares of AOL or TWC in connection with the spin-offs could incur significant income tax liabilities. The Time Separation is conditioned on Time Warner’s receipt of an opinion of counsel confirming that the Time Separation should generally not result in the recognition, for U.S. Federal income tax purposes, of gain or loss to Time Warner or its stockholders, except to the extent of cash received in lieu of fractional shares. In connection with the legal and structural separation of AOL Inc. (“AOL”) from the Company in December 2009 (the “AOL Separation”), Time Warner received an opinion of counsel confirming that the AOL Separation should not result in the recognition, for U.S. Federal income tax purposes, of gain or loss to Time Warner or its stockholders, except to the extent of cash received in lieu of fractional shares. In connection with the legal and structural separation of Time Warner Cable Inc. (“TWC”) from the Company in March 2009 (the “TWC Separation”), Time Warner received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and opinions of counsel confirming that the TWC Separation should not result in the recognition, for U.S. Federal income tax purposes, of gain or loss to Time Warner or its stockholders, except to the extent of cash received in lieu of fractional shares. The IRS ruling and the opinions in connection with these transactions will be or were based on, among other things, certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings that will be made by Time Warner and by Time Inc. in connection with the Time Separation or were made by Time Warner, AOL or TWC, as applicable in connection with the AOL Separation and TWC Separation. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is incorrect or not otherwise satisfied, Time Warner and its stockholders may not be able to rely on the relevant IRS ruling or opinion and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. Furthermore, opinions of counsel are not binding on the IRS or state or local tax authorities or the courts, and a tax authority or court could determine that the Time Separation, the AOL Separation or the TWC Separation should be treated as a taxable transaction. Under the tax matters agreement that Time Warner entered into with AOL, Time Warner is entitled 29 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements to indemnification from AOL for taxes resulting from the failure of the AOL Separation to qualify as tax-free (“AOL Transaction Taxes”) as a result of (i) certain actions or failures to act by AOL or (ii) the failure of certain representations made by AOL to be true. Similarly, under the tax matters agreement that Time Warner entered into with TWC, Time Warner is entitled to indemnification from TWC for taxes resulting from the failure of the TWC Separation to qualify as tax-free (“TWC Transaction Taxes”) as a result of (i) certain actions or failures to act by TWC or (ii) the failure of certain representations made by TWC to be true. Under the tax matters agreement that Time Warner expects to enter into with Time Inc. in connection with the Time Separation, Time Warner will be entitled to indemnification from Time Inc. for taxes resulting from the failure of the Time Separation to qualify as tax-free (“Time Transaction Taxes” and, together with the AOL Transaction Taxes and TWC Transaction Taxes, the “Transaction Taxes”) as a result of (i) certain actions or failures to act by Time Inc. or (ii) the failure of certain representations that will be made by Time Inc. to be true. However, if Transaction Taxes are incurred for any other reason, Time Warner would not be entitled to indemnification. The Company is exposed to risks associated with the current challenging conditions in the magazine publishing industry. The Company has experienced declines in print advertising revenues due to both shifts by advertisers from print to digital and weak domestic and global economic conditions, which have also adversely affected its newsstand revenues. For the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, the Company’s advertising revenues at its publishing business declined 0.6% (3.3% excluding revenues resulting from the acquisition of AEP), 5.4% and 0.6%, respectively, as compared to the preceding years and the Company’s subscription revenues at its publishing business declined 6.7% (8.0% excluding revenues resulting from the acquisition of AEP), 4.8% and 1.5%, respectively, as compared to the preceding years. The Company has reduced costs at its publishing business significantly in recent years to address these challenges, it will need to reduce costs further, and such reductions may adversely impact the quality of its magazine products and brands and further limit its ability to attract and retain talent. Such cost-reduction initiatives may involve moving more of the publishing business’ operations and support functions to outsourced arrangements or off-shore locations. These and other cost-reduction initiatives are subject to execution risk, including business disruptions, diversion of management’s attention, the incurrence of greater than anticipated expenses and risks associated with providing services and functions in outsourced or off-shore locations. If these risks materialize, the Company may be unable to realize the full benefit of its cost-reduction initiatives. The Company could face increased costs and business disruption from changes in postal rates and service. The financial condition of the USPS continues to decline. In 2012 and 2013, the USPS closed numerous mail processing centers and announced plans to close additional processing centers in 2014, which could result in slower delivery of first class mail and periodicals mail. The USPS is currently prohibited under a Congressional resolution from discontinuing Saturday mail delivery, but the USPS and some members of Congress are attempting to lift that ban as part of comprehensive postal reform. The Company’s magazine subscribers expect weekly magazines to be delivered in the same week that they are printed, and the elimination of Saturday mail delivery or slower delivery of periodicals mail, absent changes to its internal production schedules, could result in a certain percentage of the Company’s weekly magazines not reaching subscribers until the following week. In December 2013, the Postal Regulation Commission approved an exigent rate increase and the USPS increased rates by approximately 6% for all classes of mail effective January 2014. The Company cannot predict what other actions the USPS will take to address its fiscal condition in the future, and changes to delivery, reduction in staff or additional closings of processing centers may lead to changes in the Company’s internal production schedules or other changes in order to continue to meet subscribers’ expectations. In addition, if there are further significant increases in postal rates and the Company is not able to offset such increases, the Company’s results of operations could be negatively impacted. The Company could face increased costs and business disruption from instability in the wholesaler magazine distribution channel. The Company operates a distribution network that relies on wholesalers to distribute its magazines to newsstands and other retail outlets. A small number of wholesalers are responsible for a substantial percentage of wholesale magazine distribution in the U.S. The Company is experiencing significant declines in magazine sales at newsstands and other retail outlets. In light of these declines and the challenging industry conditions, there may be further consolidation among the wholesalers and one or more may become insolvent or unable to pay amounts due in a timely manner. A small number of wholesalers in the U.K. and 30 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Mexico are also responsible for a substantial percentage of wholesale magazine distribution in the U.K. and Mexico, respectively. Distribution channel disruptions can impede the Company’s ability to distribute magazines to the retail marketplace, which could, among other things, negatively affect the ability of certain magazines to meet the rate base established with advertisers. Disruption in the wholesaler channel, an increase in wholesale distribution costs or the failure of wholesalers to pay amounts due could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. A significant increase in the price of paper or significant disruptions in the Company’s supply of paper for its magazines could have an adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. Paper represents a significant component of the Company’s total costs to produce print magazines. Paper prices can be volatile and may increase as a result of various factors, including: • a reduction in the number of suppliers due to restructurings, bankruptcies and consolidations; • declining paper supply due to paper mill closures; and • other factors that generally adversely impact supplier profitability, including increases in operating expenses caused by rising raw material and energy costs. If paper prices increase significantly or the Company experiences significant supply channel disruptions, the Company’s magazine publishing business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 