Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our results from operations may be affected by the risk factors set forth below. All investors should consider the following risk factors before deciding to purchase securities of the Company. If any of the following events actually occur, our business, operating results, prospects or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. This could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also significantly impair our business operations and could result in a complete loss of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of losses and we may never achieve or maintain profitability. We have a limited operating history and have incurred significant losses in each fiscal year since our inception, including net losses attributable to common stock of $33.9 million, $37.0 million and $59.3 million in the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. As of December 31, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $239.3 million. Our losses resulted principally from costs incurred in our research and development programs and from our general and administrative expenses. In recent years, we have incurred significant costs in connection with the development of the Verigene System and its test menu. We expect our research and development expense levels to remain high for the foreseeable future as we seek to enhance our existing product and develop new products. These losses, among other things, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our working capital, total assets and stockholders’ equity. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with our product development and commercialization efforts, we are unable to predict when we will become profitable, and we may never become profitable. If we fail to achieve profitability in the future, the market price of our common stock could decline. Our financial results depend on commercial acceptance of the Verigene System, its array of tests, and the development of additional tests. Our future depends on the success of the Verigene System, which depends primarily on its acceptance by hospitals, research institutions, and independent diagnostic laboratories as a reliable, accurate and cost-effective replacement for traditional molecular diagnostic measurement methods. Many hospitals and laboratories already use expensive molecular diagnostic testing instruments in their laboratories and may be reluctant to change their current procedures for performing such analyses. The Verigene System currently does not process a sufficiently broad menu of tests for some hospitals and laboratories to consider adopting it. Although we continue to develop additional tests to respond to hospitals’ and laboratories’ needs, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to develop enough additional tests quickly enough or in a manner that is cost-effective or at all. The development of new or enhanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends, as well as precise technological execution. We are currently not able to estimate when or if we will be able to develop, commercialize or sell additional tests or enhance existing products. If we are unable to increase sales of the Verigene System and its tests or to successfully develop and commercialize other products or tests, our revenues and our ability to achieve profitability would be impaired. The regulatory approval process is expensive, time consuming and uncertain and the failure to obtain such approvals will prevent us from commercializing our future products. Our products are subject to approval or clearance by the FDA or foreign governmental entities prior to their marketing for commercial use. The 510(k) clearance and premarket approval processes as well as the foreign approvals required to initiate sales outside the United States can be expensive, time consuming and uncertain. It may take as long as eighteen months or longer from submission to obtain 510(k) clearance, and from one to three years from submission to obtain premarket approval; however, it may take longer, and 510(k) clearance or premarket approval may never be obtained. Delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain, clearances or approvals for future products, including tests that are currently in development, would result in delayed, or no, realization of revenues from such products and in substantial additional costs which could decrease our profitability. We have limited experience in filing FDA applications for 510(k) clearance and premarket approval. There are no assurances that we will obtain any required clearance or approval. Any such failure, or any material delay in obtaining the clearance or approval, could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents We and our customers are subject to various governmental regulations, and we may incur significant expenses to comply with, and experience delays in our product commercialization as a result of, these regulations. The products we develop, manufacture and market are subject to regulation by the FDA and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. We generally are prohibited from marketing our products in the United States unless we obtain either 510(k) clearance or premarket approval from the FDA. In addition, we are required to continue to comply with applicable FDA and other regulatory requirements once we have obtained clearance or approval for a product. These requirements include the Quality System Regulation, labeling requirements, the FDA’s general prohibition against promoting products for unapproved or “off-label” uses and adverse event reporting regulations. Failure to comply with applicable FDA product regulatory requirements could result in warning letters, fines, injunctions, civil penalties, repairs, replacements, refunds, recalls or seizures of products, total or partial suspension of production, the FDA’s refusal to grant future pre-market clearances or approvals, withdrawals or suspensions of current product applications and criminal prosecution. Any of these actions, in combination or alone, could prevent us from selling our products and would likely harm our business. Our manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic regulatory inspections by the FDA and other federal and state regulatory agencies. The use of our diagnostic products by our customers is also affected by the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988, or CLIA, and related federal and state regulations that provide for regulation of laboratory testing. CLIA is intended to ensure the quality and reliability of clinical laboratories in the United States by mandating specific standards in the areas of personnel qualifications, administration, participation in proficiency testing, patient test management, quality and inspections. Current or future CLIA requirements or the promulgation of additional regulations affecting laboratory testing may prevent some laboratories from using some or all of our diagnostic products. The FDA and foreign governmental regulators have made, and may continue to make, changes in approval requirements and processes. We cannot predict what these changes will be, how or when they will occur or what effect they will have on the regulation of our products. Any new regulations, including regulations specifically related to nanotechnology, may impose additional costs or lengthen review times of our products. Delays in receipt of or failure to receive regulatory approvals or clearances for our new products would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If third-party payors do not reimburse our customers for the use of our clinical diagnostic products or if they reduce reimbursement levels, our ability to sell our products will be harmed. We intend to sell our products primarily to hospital-based laboratories and academic research institutions, substantially all of which receive reimbursement for the health care services they provide to their patients from third-party payors, such as Medicare, Medicaid and other domestic and international government programs, private insurance plans and managed care programs. Most of these third-party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that a medical product was not used in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods, as determined by the third-party payor, or was used for an unapproved indication. Third-party payors also may refuse to reimburse for procedures and devices deemed to be experimental. In the United States, the American Medical Association assigns specific Current Procedural Terminology, or CPT, codes, which are necessary for reimbursement of diagnostic tests. Once the CPT code is established, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services establish reimbursement payment levels and coverage rules under Medicaid and Medicare, and private payors establish rates and coverage rules independently. Although the tests performed by our assays in development have previously assigned CPT Codes, we cannot guarantee that our assays are covered by such CPT codes and are therefore approved for reimbursement by Medicare and Medicaid as well as most third-party payors. Additionally, certain of our future products may not be approved for reimbursement. Third-party payors may choose to reimburse our customers on a per test basis, rather than on the basis of the number of results given by the test. This may result in reference laboratories, public health institutions and hospitals electing to use separate tests to screen for each disease so that they can receive reimbursement for each test they conduct. In that event, these entities likely would purchase separate tests for each disease, rather than products that multiplex. Third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain health care costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for medical products and services. Increasingly, Medicare, Medicaid and other third-party payors are challenging the prices charged for medical services, including clinical diagnostic tests. Levels of reimbursement may decrease in the future, and future legislation, regulation or reimbursement policies of third-party payors may adversely affect the demand for and price levels of our products. If our customers are not reimbursed for our products, they may reduce or discontinue purchases of our products, which would cause our revenues to decline. 16 Table of Contents We may fail to receive positive clinical results from the diagnostic tests currently in development that require clinical trials, and even if we receive positive clinical results, we may still fail to receive the necessary clearances or approvals to market our products. We are investing in the research and development of new products to expand the menu of testing options for the Verigene System. In order to commercialize our products, we are required to undertake time consuming and costly development activities, sometimes including clinical trials for which the outcome is uncertain. Products that appear promising during early development and preclinical studies may, nonetheless, fail to demonstrate the results needed to support regulatory approval. Even if we receive positive clinical results, we may still fail to obtain the necessary FDA clearance and approvals. Our operating results may be variable and unpredictable. The sales cycles for our products may be lengthy, which will make it difficult for us to accurately forecast revenues in a given period, and may cause revenues and operating results to vary significantly from period to period. In addition to its length, the sales cycle associated with our products is subject to a number of significant risks, including the budgetary constraints of our customers, their inventory management practices and possibly internal acceptance reviews, all of which are beyond our control. Sales of our products will also involve the purchasing decisions of large, medium and small hospitals and laboratories which can require many levels of pre-approvals, further lengthening sales time. As a result, we may expend considerable resources on unsuccessful sales efforts or we may not be able to complete transactions on the scheduled anticipated. If we do not achieve significant product revenue, we may not be able to meet our cash requirements without obtaining additional capital from external sources, and if we are unable to do so, we may have to curtail or cease operations. We expect capital outlays and operating expenditures to increase over the next few years as we expand our infrastructure, commercialization, manufacturing, and research and development activities. We anticipate that our current cash and cash equivalents, which include the net proceeds of our initial and secondary public offerings, will be sufficient to meet our estimated needs for approximately two years. However, we operate in a market that makes our prospects difficult to evaluate, and we may need additional financing to execute on our current or future business strategies. The amount of additional capital we may need to raise depends on many factors, including: • the level of research and development investment required to maintain and improve our technology; • the amount and growth rate, if any, of our revenues; • changes in product development plans needed to address any difficulties in manufacturing or commercializing the Verigene System and enhancements to our system; • the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights; • competing technological and market developments; • our need or decision to acquire or license complementary technologies or acquire complementary businesses; • the expansion of our sales force; and • changes in regulatory policies, practices or laws that affect our operations, including clearance to market our products. We cannot be certain that additional capital will be available when and as needed or that our actual cash requirements will not be greater than anticipated. If we require additional capital at a time when investment in diagnostics companies or in the marketplace in general is limited due to the then prevailing market or other conditions, we may not be able to raise such funds at the time that we desire or any time thereafter. In addition, if we raise additional funds through the issuance of common stock or convertible securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders could be significantly diluted, and these newly issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing stockholders. If we obtain additional debt financing, a substantial portion of our operating cash flow may be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on such indebtedness, and the terms of the debt securities issued could impose significant restrictions on our operations. If we raise additional funds through collaborations and licensing arrangements, we might be required to relinquish significant rights to our technologies or products, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. 17 Table of Contents The adverse capital and credit market conditions could affect our liquidity. Adverse capital and credit market conditions could affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, as well as our access to capital and cost of capital. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for more than 12 months. In recent months, the volatility and disruption have reached unprecedented levels and the markets have exerted downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. For example, recently credit spreads have widened considerably. Our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and capital position could be materially adversely affected by continued disruptions in the capital and credit markets. If our products do not perform as expected or the reliability of the technology on which our products are based is questioned, we could experience lost revenue, delayed or reduced market acceptance of our products, increased costs and damage to our reputation. Our success depends on the market’s confidence that we can provide reliable, high-quality diagnostics systems. We believe that customers in our target markets are likely to be particularly sensitive to product defects and errors. Our reputation and the public image of our products or technologies may be impaired if our products fail to perform as expected or our products are perceived as difficult to use. Our products are complex and may develop or contain undetected defects or errors. Any defects or errors could lead to the filing of product liability claims, which could be costly and time-consuming to defend and result in substantial damages. If we experience a sustained material defect or error, this could result in loss or delay of revenues, delayed market acceptance, damaged reputation, diversion of development resources, legal claims, increased insurance costs or increased service and warranty costs, any of which could materially harm our business. We cannot assure you that our product liability insurance would protect our assets from the financial impact of defending a product liability claim. A product liability claim could have a serious adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on third-party license agreements for patents and other technology related to our products, and the termination of these agreements could delay or prevent us from being able to commercialize our products. As of December 31, 2009, our patent portfolio is comprised, on a worldwide basis, of 132 issued patents and 97 pending patent applications which we own directly or for which we are the exclusive licensee. Some of these patents and patent applications derive from a common parent patent application or are foreign counterpart patent applications and relate to similar or identical technological claims. The issued patents cover approximately 12 different technological claims and the pending patent applications cover approximately 4 additional technological claims. Many of our issued and pending patents were exclusively licensed from the International Institute for Nanotechnology at Northwestern University (“Northwestern”) in May 2000 and they generally cover our core technology, including nanotechnology based biodiagnostics and biobarcode technology. Our issued patents expire between 2017 and 2025. Our patent portfolio provides protection against other companies offering products employing the same technologies and methods as we have patented. While we believe our patent portfolio establishes a proprietary position, there are many competitive products utilizing other technologies that do not infringe on our patents. In addition, we have non-exclusive licenses for 44 patents that cover 12 different technological claims from various third parties. Most of these license agreements require us to pay the licensor royalty fees that typically expire upon the patent expiration dates which range from 2009 to 2025. These license agreements are nonexclusive and do not create a proprietary position. The expiration of these non-exclusive licenses will result in the termination of certain royalty payments by us to the licensors. If we are unable to obtain, maintain and enforce intellectual property protection covering our products, others may be able to make, use, or sell our products, which could adversely affect our ability to compete in the market. Our success is dependent in part on obtaining, maintaining and enforcing intellectual property rights, including patents. If we are unable to obtain, maintain and enforce intellectual property legal protection covering our products, others may be able to make, use or sell products that are substantially identical to ours without incurring the sizeable discovery, development and licensing costs that we have incurred, which would adversely affect our ability to compete in the market. 18 Table of Contents We seek to obtain and maintain patents and other intellectual property rights to restrict the ability of others to market products that compete with our products. Currently, our patent portfolio is comprised, on a worldwide basis, of 132 issued patents and 97 pending patent applications which, in either case, we own directly or for which we are the exclusive licensee. However, patents may not be issued from any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us, and moreover, issued patents owned or licensed to us now or in the future may be found by a court to be invalid or otherwise unenforceable. Also, even if our patents are determined by a court to be valid and enforceable, they may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from marketing products similar to ours or designing around our patents, despite our patent rights, nor provide us with freedom to operate unimpeded by the patent rights of others. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that we were the first to make the invention claimed in our United States issued patents or pending patent applications, or that we were the first to file for protection of the inventions claimed in our foreign issued patents or pending patent applications. We may become subject to interference proceedings conducted in the patent and trademark offices of various countries to determine our entitlement to patents, and these proceedings may conclude that other patents or patent applications have priority over our patents or patent applications. It is also possible that a competitor may successfully challenge our patents through various proceedings and those challenges may result in the elimination or narrowing of our patents, and therefore reduce our patent protection. Accordingly, rights under any of our issued patents, patent applications or future patents may not provide us with commercially meaningful protection for our products or afford us a commercial advantage against our competitors or their competitive products or processes. We have a number of foreign patents and applications. However, the laws of some foreign jurisdictions do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as laws in the United States, and many companies have encountered significant difficulties in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. If we encounter such difficulties or we are otherwise precluded from effectively protecting our intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions, our business prospects could be substantially harmed. We may initiate litigation to enforce our patent rights, which may prompt our adversaries in such litigation to challenge the validity, scope or enforceability of our patents. Patent litigation is complex and often difficult and expensive, and would consume the time of our management and other significant resources. In addition, the outcome of patent litigation is uncertain. If a court decides that our patents are not valid, not enforceable or of a limited scope, we may not have the right to stop others from using the subject matter covered by those patents. We also rely on trade secret protection to protect our interests in proprietary know-how and for processes for which patents are difficult to obtain or enforce. We may not be able to protect our trade secrets adequately. In addition, we rely on non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and other parties to protect, in part, our trade secrets and other proprietary technology. These agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Moreover, others may independently develop equivalent proprietary information, and third parties may otherwise gain access to our trade secrets and proprietary knowledge. Any disclosure of confidential data into the public domain or to third parties could allow our competitors to learn our trade secrets and use the information in competition against us. Our products could infringe patent rights of others, which may require costly litigation and, if we are not successful, could cause us to pay substantial damages or limit our ability to commercialize our products. Our commercial success depends on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other proprietary rights of third parties. We are aware of third party patents that may relate to our products and technology. There may also be other patents that relate to our products and technology of which we are not aware. We may unintentionally infringe upon valid patent rights of third parties. Although we are currently not involved in any material litigation involving patents, a third party patent holder could assert a claim of patent infringement against us in the future. Alternatively, we may initiate litigation against the third party patent holder to request that a court declare that we are not infringing the third party’s patent and/or that the third party’s patent is invalid or unenforceable. If a claim of infringement is asserted against us and is successful, and therefore we are found to infringe, we could be required to pay damages for infringement, including treble damages if it is determined that we knew or became aware of such a patent and we failed to exercise due care in determining whether or not we infringed the patent. If we have supplied infringing products to third parties or have licensed third parties to manufacture, use or market infringing products, we may be obligated to indemnify these third parties for damages they may be required to pay to the patent holder and for any losses they may sustain. We can also be prevented from selling or commercializing any of our products that use the infringing technology in the future, unless we obtain a license from such third party. A license may not be available from such third party on commercially reasonable terms, or may not be available at all. Any modification to include a non-infringing technology may not be possible or if possible may be difficult or time-consuming to develop, and require revalidation, which could delay our ability to commercialize our products. 19 Table of Contents Any infringement action asserted against us, even if we are ultimately successful in defending against such action, would likely delay the regulatory approval process of our products, harm our competitive position, be expensive and require the time and attention of our key management and technical personnel. We have limited experience in sales and marketing and may be unable to successfully commercialize our Verigene System, or it may be difficult to build brand loyalty. We have limited marketing, sales and distribution experience and capabilities. Our ability to achieve profitability depends on attracting customers for the Verigene System and building brand loyalty. To successfully perform sales, marketing, distribution and customer support functions ourselves, we will face a number of risks, including: • our ability to attract and retain the skilled support team, marketing staff and sales force necessary to commercialize and gain market acceptance for our technology and our products; • the ability of our sales and marketing team to identify and penetrate the potential customer base including hospitals, research institutions, and independent diagnostic laboratories; • the time and cost of establishing a support team, marketing staff and sales force; and • the difficulty of establishing brand recognition and loyalty for our products. In addition, we may seek to enlist one or more third parties to assist with sales, distribution and customer support globally or in certain regions of the world. If we do seek to enter into such arrangements, we may not be successful in attracting desirable sales and distribution partners, or we may not be able to enter into such arrangements on favorable terms. If our sales and marketing efforts, or those of any third-party sales and distribution partners, are not successful, our technologies and products may not gain market acceptance, which would materially impact our business operations. We may be unsuccessful in our long-term goal of expanding our product offerings outside the United States. To the extent we begin to offer our products broadly outside the United States, we expect that we will be dependent on third-party distribution relationships. Distributors may not commit the necessary resources to market and sell our products to the level of our expectations. If distributors do not perform adequately, or we are unable to locate distributors in particular geographic areas, our ability to realize long-term international revenue growth would be materially adversely affected. Additionally, our products may require regulatory clearances and approvals from jurisdictions outside the United States. These products may not be sold in these jurisdictions until the required clearances and approvals are obtained. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain these clearances or approvals on a timely basis, or at all. Manufacturing risks and inefficiencies may adversely affect our ability to produce products. We must manufacture or engage third parties to manufacture components of our products in sufficient quantities and on a timely basis, while maintaining product quality and acceptable manufacturing costs and complying with regulatory requirements. In determining the required quantities of our products and the manufacturing schedule, we must make significant judgments and estimates based on historical experience, inventory levels, current market trends and other related factors. Because of the inherent nature of estimates, there could be significant differences between our estimates and the actual amounts of products we require. Additionally, some of the components of the Verigene System are custom-made by only a few outside vendors, and we do not have long-term supply contracts for the materials or components supplied by any of our vendors. If we are unable to obtain from one or more of these vendors the needed materials or components that meet our specifications on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, we may not be able to meet the demand for our products. We have not arranged for alternate suppliers, and it may be difficult to find alternate suppliers in a timely manner and on terms acceptable to us. We manufacture in one facility. If there were to be a significant disruption in our ability to use this facility, it would take significant time to setup and validate an alternative manufacturing facility. Disruptions due to lack of power, flooding, fire and environmental controls could adversely impact our ability to manufacture. In addition, we have been steadily increasing manufacturing capacity to meet demand for our products. A disruption of our manufacturing operations resulting from scale-up related challenges such as obtaining sufficient raw materials, hiring of qualified factory personnel, installation and efficient operation of new equipment, and management of our quality controls could cause us to cease, delay, or limit our manufacturing operations and consequently adversely impact our business, our results of operations and our financial condition. 20 Table of Contents We may experience unforeseen technical complications in the processes we use to develop, manufacture, customize or receive orders for our products. These complications could materially delay or limit the use of products we attempt to commercialize, substantially increase the anticipated cost of our products or prevent us from implementing our processes at appropriate quality and scale levels, thereby causing our business to suffer. In addition, our manufacturing operations use highly technical processes involving unique, proprietary techniques that our manufacturing personnel must continuously monitor and update, especially as we develop more products. In order to be profitable, we must manufacture greater quantities of products than we have to date and we must do this more efficiently than we have in the past. We may not be able to do so. We will need to develop manufacturing capacity by ourselves or with third parties. We will need to either continue to build internal manufacturing capacity or contract with one or more manufacturing partners, or both. We currently use a combination of outsourced and internal manufacturing activities. We may encounter difficulties in manufacturing our products and, due to the complexity of our technology and our manufacturing process, we cannot be sure we fully understand all of the factors that affect our manufacturing processes or product performance. We may not be able to build manufacturing capacity internally or find one or more suitable manufacturing partners, or both, to meet the volume and quality requirements necessary to be successful in the market. If our products do not consistently meet our customers’ performance expectations, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenues to become profitable. Significant additional resources, implementation of additional manufacturing equipment and changes in our manufacturing processes and organization may be required for the scale-up of each new product prior to commercialization or to meet increasing customer demand once commercialization begins, and this work may not be successfully or efficiently completed. Any delay in establishing or inability to expand our manufacturing capacity could delay our ability to develop or sell our products, which would result in lost revenue and seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business and future operating results may be adversely affected by events outside of our control. We develop and manufacture the Verigene System and assays in our facility located in Northbrook, Illinois. This facility and the manufacturing equipment we use would be costly to replace and could require substantial lead time to repair or replace. Our business and operating results may be harmed due to interruption of our manufacturing by events outside of our control, including earthquakes, tornadoes and fires. Other possible disruptions may include power loss and telecommunications failures. In the event of a disruption, we may lose customers and we may be unable to regain those customers thereafter. Our insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. We face intense competition from established and new companies in the molecular diagnostics field. We compete with companies that design, manufacture and market already existing and new molecular diagnostics systems, and single target or low count multiplexing systems and assays are abundant. We anticipate that we will face increased competition in the future as new companies enter the market with new technologies and our competitors improve their current products. One or more of our competitors may offer technology superior to ours and render our technology obsolete or uneconomical. If a competitor were able to deliver a testing application that offers simplicity and ease of use, high count multiplexing and high throughput and fast turnaround, our ability to successfully market our products would be materially adversely affected. Most of our current competitors, as well as many of our potential competitors, have greater name recognition, more substantial intellectual property portfolios, longer operating histories, significantly greater resources to invest in new technologies and more substantial experience in new product development, regulatory expertise, manufacturing capabilities and the distribution channels to deliver products to customers. If we are not able to compete successfully, we may not generate sufficient revenue to become profitable. Our success may depend upon how we and our competitors anticipate and adapt to market conditions. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, changes in customer needs, emerging competition and new product introductions. The success of our products will depend on our ability to continue to increase their performance and decrease their price. New technologies, techniques or products could emerge with similar or better price-performance than our system and could exert pricing pressures on our products. It is critical to our success for us to anticipate changes in technology and customer requirements and to successfully introduce enhanced and competitive technology to meet our customers’ and prospective customers’ needs on a timely basis. We may not be able to maintain our technological advantages over emerging technologies in the future and we will need to respond to technological innovation in a rapidly changing industry. If we fail to keep pace with emerging technologies our system will become uncompetitive, our market share will decline and our business, revenue, financial condition and operating results could suffer materially. 21 Table of Contents We may not be able to manage our anticipated growth, and we may experience constraints or inefficiencies caused by unanticipated acceleration and deceleration of customer demand. Demand for our respiratory products is directly proportionate to the size and duration of influenza and other respiratory illnesses. Unanticipated acceleration and deceleration of customer demand for our products may result in constraints or inefficiencies related to our manufacturing, sales force, implementation resources and administrative infrastructure. Such constraints or inefficiencies may adversely affect us as a result of delays, lost potential product sales or loss of current or potential customers due to their dissatisfaction. Similarly, over-expansion or investments in anticipation of growth that does not materialize, or develops more slowly than we expect, could harm our financial results and result in overcapacity. To manage our anticipated future growth effectively, we must enhance our manufacturing capabilities and operations, information technology infrastructure, and financial and accounting systems and controls. Organizational growth and scale-up of operations could strain our existing managerial, operational, financial and other resources. Our growth could require significant capital expenditures and may divert financial resources from other projects, such as the development of new products or enhancements of existing products. If our management is unable to effectively manage our growth, our expenses may increase more than expected, our revenue could grow more slowly than expected and we may not be able to achieve our research and development and commercialization goals. Our failure to manage our anticipated growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. We use hazardous chemicals, biological materials, and infectious diseases in our business. Any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials could be time consuming and costly. Our research and development and manufacturing processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including chemicals, biological materials and infectious diseases. Our operations produce hazardous waste products. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and any resultant injury from these materials. We may be sued for any injury or contamination that results from our use or the use by third parties of these materials, and our liability may exceed our insurance coverage and our total assets. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these hazardous materials and specified waste products, as well as the discharge of pollutants into the environment and human health and safety matters. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and may impair our research, development and production efforts. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we could incur substantial costs, including civil or criminal fines and penalties, clean-up costs, or capital expenditures for control equipment or operational changes necessary to achieve and maintain compliance. In addition, we cannot predict the impact on our business of new or amended environmental laws or regulations, or any changes in the way existing and future laws and regulations are interpreted and enforced. If we are unable to recruit and retain key executives and scientists, we may be unable to achieve our goals. Our performance is substantially dependent on the performance of our senior management and key scientific and technical personnel. The loss of the services of any member of our senior management or our scientific or technical staff could divert management’s attention to transition matters and identification of suitable replacements, if any, and have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Each of our executive officers and other key employees could terminate his or her relationship with us at any time. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our employees. In addition, our product development and marketing efforts could be delayed or curtailed if we are unable to attract, train and retain highly skilled employees and scientific advisors, particularly our management team, senior scientists and engineers and sales and marketing personnel. To expand our research, product development and sales efforts we need additional people skilled in areas such as protein science, information services, manufacturing, sales, marketing and technical support. Because of the complex and technical nature of our system and the dynamic market in which we compete, any failure to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees could materially harm our ability to develop and commercialize our technology. We may not be successful in hiring or retaining qualified personnel and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents Healthcare reform and restrictions on reimbursement may adversely affect our profitability. In the United States, healthcare providers that purchase our products and other diagnostic products generally rely on third-party payors to reimburse all or part of the cost of the procedure. In international markets, reimbursement and healthcare payment systems vary significantly by country, and include both government-sponsored healthcare and private insurance. Third-party payors can affect the pricing or the relative attractiveness of our products by regulating the maximum amount of reimbursement provided by such payors for laboratory testing services. Lower-than-expected or decreases in reimbursement amounts for tests performed using our products may decrease amounts physicians and other practitioners are able to charge patients, which in turn may adversely affect the willingness of physicians and other practitioners to purchase our products at prices we target, or at all. If we were not able to sell our products at target prices, then we will suffer a decrease in expected profitability that would likely adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock may be volatile and fluctuate significantly, which could result in substantial losses for investors and subject us to securities class action litigation. Market prices of diagnostics companies have been volatile. Among the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate are the risks described in this “Risk Factors” section and other factors, including: • fluctuations in our quarterly operating results or the operating results of our competitors; • changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts; • variance in our financial performance from the expectations of securities analysts; • changes in the estimation of the future size and growth rate of our markets; • changes in accounting principles or changes in interpretations of existing principles, which could affect our financial results; • failure of our products to achieve or maintain market acceptance or commercial success; • conditions and trends in the markets we serve; • changes in general economic, industry and market conditions; • success of competitive products and services; • changes in market valuations or earnings of our competitors; • changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; • announcements of significant new products, contracts, acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or our competitors; • changes in legislation or regulatory policies, practices, or actions; • the commencement or outcome of litigation involving our company, our general industry or both; • recruitment or departure of key personnel; • changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of additional debt; • actual or expected sales of our common stock by our stockholders; and • the trading volume of our common stock. 23 Table of Contents In addition, the stock market in general, the NASDAQ Global Market and the market for diagnostics companies in particular, may experience a loss of investor confidence. Such loss of investor confidence may result in extreme price and volume fluctuations in our common stock that are unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of our business, financial condition or results of operations. These broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our common stock and expose us to securities class action litigation. Such litigation, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and divert management’s attention and resources, which could further materially harm our financial condition and results of operations. If equity research analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline. The liquidity of the trading market for our common stock may be affected in part by the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. We do not control the opinions of these analysts. The price of our stock could decline if one or more equity analysts downgrade our stock or if those analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or cease publishing reports about us or our business. Certain provisions of our corporate governing documents could make an acquisition of our company more difficult. Certain provisions of our organizational documents could discourage potential acquisition proposals, delay or prevent a change in control of us or limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. For example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws: • authorize the issuance of preferred stock that can be created and issued by our board of directors without prior stockholder approval, commonly referred to as “blank check” preferred stock, with rights senior to those of our common stock; • limit the persons who can call special stockholder meetings; • provide that a majority vote of our stockholders is required to amend our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws; • establish advance notice requirements to nominate persons for election to our board of directors or to propose matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings; • not provide for cumulative voting in the election of directors; and • provide for the filling of vacancies on our board of directors by action of a majority of the directors and not by the stockholders. These and other provisions in our organizational documents could allow our board of directors to affect your rights as a stockholder in a number of ways, including making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of the board of directors. Because our board of directors is responsible for approving the appointment of members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt to replace the current management team. These provisions could also limit the price that investors would be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation provide that Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, an anti-takeover law, will not apply to us. Section 203 generally prohibits an interested stockholder from engaging in certain types of business combinations with a Delaware corporation for three years after becoming an interested stockholder. An “interested stockholder” is a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns 15% or more of the corporation. 24 Table of Contents Our 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan includes an automatic share replenishment, or “evergreen,” provision that, unless our board of directors takes action to the contrary, will automatically increase the number of shares of our common stock reserved for issuance under this plan each year. Issuances of awards under this Plan would cause further dilution to existing stockholders. In March 2007 our board of directors adopted and our shareholders approved our 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the “2007 Plan”). The 2007 Plan authorizes the grant of stock options, share appreciation rights, restricted shares, restricted share units, unrestricted shares, incentive stock options, deferred share units and performance awards. The total awards originally authorized under the 2007 Plan was 4,106,009 shares, plus up to an additional 773,591 shares of common stock that will become available in the event that awards made under our 2000 Equity Incentive Plan expire, are forfeited or cancelled, plus an annual increase in the number of shares pursuant to the evergreen provision equal to the least of: 900,000 shares of common stock; 4.0% of our outstanding shares of common stock as of fiscal year end; and an amount determined by the board of directors. At December 31, 2009, there were 28,422,461 outstanding shares of our common stock. In addition, there were outstanding options to purchase 4,338,695 shares of our common stock (including 620,732 shares authorized pursuant to the evergreen provision of the Plan), of which 3,843,095 were in-the-money based on our December 31, 2009 closing stock price. Pursuant to the evergreen provision, an additional 900,000 shares of our common stock were authorized for issuance under the 2007 Plan as of January 1, 2010. Collectively, the outstanding shares as of December 31, 2009, the in-the-money options and warrants as of December 31, 2009 and the additional shares authorized on January 1, 2010 pursuant to the evergreen provision were 33,165,556 (the “Adjusted Outstanding Shares”). On January 1, 2011 and January 1, 2012, a maximum of 900,000 additional shares per year may be authorized under our 2007 Plan as a result of this evergreen provision. If the maximum number of shares under the evergreen provision were to be authorized and issued, the future shares issued under the evergreen provision would result in an approximate 5% increase in the Adjusted Outstanding Shares as of December 31, 2009. The evergreen provision of the 2007 Plan will increase the likelihood that we will not request existing stockholders to authorize additional shares for issuance under the 2007 Plan or a new plan. However, other factors, such as a material increase in the number of our award-eligible employees, or competitive conditions to attract or keep valuable employees, may affect the likelihood of our requesting stockholders to authorize additional shares under this plan or a new plan. The issuance, perception that issuance may occur, or exercise of these options may have a dilutive impact on other stockholders and could have a material negative effect on the market price of our common stock. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our capital stock and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock, and we currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. Therefore, we do not anticipate declaring or paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, capital requirements, financial condition, future prospects, contractual arrangements, restrictions imposed by applicable law, any limitations on payments of dividends present in our current and future debt agreements, and other factors our board of directors may deem relevant. If we do not pay dividends, your ability to achieve a return on your investment in our company will depend on any future appreciation in the market price of our common stock. There is no guarantee that shares of our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which our stockholders have purchased their shares. We will continue to incur costs and demands upon management as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies, which may adversely affect our operating results and failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could cause investors to lose confidence in our operating results and in the accuracy of our financial reports and could have a material adverse effect on our business and on the price of our common stock. As a public company, we are required, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for our 2009 fiscal year. Management is responsible for implementing controls and other procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file with the SEC is disclosed accurately and is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. While we have implemented the internal controls that we feel are necessary to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act, these controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with these policies or procedures may deteriorate. 25 Table of Contents Furthermore, as a public company, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including regulations implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the NASDAQ may increase legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time consuming. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. We intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If notwithstanding our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards, we fail to comply, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be harmed. Failure to comply with these rules might also make it more difficult for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we might be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage and/or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, on committees of our board of directors, or as executive officers. Concentration of ownership among some of our stockholders, including directors and management may limit your ability to influence corporate matters. As of March 4, 2010, approximately 64% of our common stock including the exercise of all outstanding warrants and exercisable options to purchase our common stock will be beneficially held by our directors, our executive officers, and greater than five percent stockholders and their respective affiliates. Lurie Investment Fund, L.L.C., Lurie Investments, Inc., AOQ Trust, Alfa-Tech, L.L.C., and their respective affiliates, own 29% of our common stock, and Bain Capital Venture Fund 2005, L.P. and their respective affiliates own 7% of our common stock. Consequently, a small number of our stockholders may be able to substantially influence our management and affairs. If they choose to act together, they would be able to influence most matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and any other transaction. The concentration of ownership may also delay or prevent a change in control of us even if such changes might otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders. In addition the significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning shares in companies with controlling stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 