ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below before buying our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occurs, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. The investigation of our historical stock option practices and the restatement of our prior financial statements may require us to incur substantial expenses and direct our management’s attention from our business, which may impact our business, financial position and results of operations and the trading price of our common stock. Our internal review and our Audit Committee’s investigation into our historical stock option practices and accounting have required us to incur substantial expenses for legal, accounting, tax and other professional services, have diverted management’s attention from our business, and could in the future harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 22 While we believe we have made appropriate judgments in determining the correct measurement dates for our stock option grants, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) may disagree with the manner in which we have accounted for and reported, or not reported, the financial impact. Accordingly, there is a risk we may have to further restate our historical financial statements, amend prior filings with the SEC, or take other actions not currently contemplated. Matters related to the investigation into our historical stock option granting practices and the restatement of our financial statements may result in additional litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions for which we may be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed. Our historical stock option granting practices and the restatement of our financial statements have exposed us to greater risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement action. For more information regarding our current litigation and related inquiries, please see Part I, Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” as well as the other risk factors related to litigation set forth in this section. We have provided the results of our internal review and investigation to the SEC, which has notified us of a formal order of private investigation. We have responded to requests for documents and additional information and we intend to continue to cooperate with the SEC. No assurance can be given regarding the outcomes from litigation, regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions relating to our past stock option practices. The resolution of these matters will be time-consuming, expensive, and may distract management from the conduct of our business. Furthermore, if we are subject to adverse findings in litigation, regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, which, if not remedied effectively, could have an adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock and impair our ability to timely file our SEC reports or otherwise seriously harm our business. Through, in part, the documentation, testing and assessment of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to the rules promulgated by the SEC under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and Item 308 of Regulation S-K, Management has concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting had material weaknesses as of December 31, 2006. We have taken certain actions to address those material weaknesses. Our inability to remedy such material weaknesses promptly and effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, as well as impair our ability to meet our quarterly and annual reporting requirements in a timely manner. Prior to the elimination of these material weaknesses, there remains risk that the transitional controls on which we currently rely will fail to be sufficiently effective, which could result in a material misstatement of our financial position or results of operations and require a restatement. In addition, even if we are successful in strengthening our controls and procedures, such controls and procedures may not be adequate to prevent or identify irregularities or facilitate the fair presentation of our financial statements or SEC reporting. Failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures could seriously harm our business. As described in Item 9A of this Form 10-K, we have made significant changes in our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. The failure or circumvention of our controls, policies and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. 23 We face risks related to securities litigation that could result in significant legal expenses and settlement or damage awards. We have been named as a defendant in a number of securities class action and derivative lawsuits. We are generally obliged, to the extent permitted by law, to indemnify our current and former directors and officers who are named as defendants in these lawsuits. Defending against existing and potential litigation may require significant attention and resources of management. Regardless of the outcome, such litigation will result in significant legal expenses. If our defenses are ultimately unsuccessful, or if we are unable to achieve a favorable settlement, we could be liable for large damage awards that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. Our historical stock option practices and the restatement of our prior financial statements have exposed us to greater risks associated with securities litigation. Several derivative actions were filed against certain current and former directors and officers based on allegations relating to our historical stock option practices. We may be subject to additional litigation arising in relation to our historical stock option practices and the restatement of our prior period financial statements. The limitations of our director and officer liability insurance may require us to pay significant legal expenses and settlement or damage awards. Our director and officer liability insurance policies provide only limited liability protection relating to the securities class action and derivative lawsuits against us and certain of our officers and directors. If these policies do not adequately cover expenses and certain liabilities relating to these lawsuits, our results of operations and our financial position could be materially harmed. The facts underlying the lawsuits have made director and officer liability insurance extremely expensive for us, and may make such insurance coverage unavailable for us in the future. Increased premiums could materially harm our financial results in future periods. The inability to obtain this coverage due to its unavailability or prohibitively expensive premiums would make it more difficult to retain and attract officers and directors and potentially expose us to self-funding any future liabilities ordinarily mitigated by director and officer liability insurance. If we are not current in our SEC filings, we will face several adverse consequences. From August 9, 2006 through August 2, 2007, we were not current in our SEC filings. If we are unable to remain current in our SEC filings, we will not be able to have a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, covering a public offering of securities, declared effective by the SEC, and we will not be able to make offerings pursuant to existing registration statements (including registration statements on Form S-8 covering employee stock plans), or pursuant to certain “private placement” rules of the SEC under Regulation D to any purchasers not qualifying as “accredited investors.” In addition, our affiliates will not be able to sell our securities pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Finally, we will not be eligible to use a “short form” registration statement on Form S-3 until August 2, 2008 and we have lost our status as a “well known seasoned issuer,” including the registration advantages associated with such status. These restrictions may impair our ability to raise capital in the public markets should we desire to do so, and to attract and retain key employees. Our common stock may be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Select Market and transferred to the National Quotation Service Bureau (“Pink Sheets”), which may, among other things, reduce the price of our common stock and the levels of liquidity available to our stockholders. On August 2, 2007, we filed the Second Quarter Form 10-Q, the Third Quarter Form 10-Q, this 2006 Form 10-K and will file the First Quarter Form 10-Q with the SEC. We consider that the filing of these reports has remedied our non-compliance with Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14), subject to NASDAQ’s affirmative completion of its compliance protocols and its notification to us accordingly. However, if 24 NASDAQ disagrees with our position or if the SEC disagrees with the manner in which we have accounted for and reported, or not reported, the financial impact of past stock option grants, there could be further delays in filing subsequent SEC reports or other actions that might result in delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Global Select Market. In August 2006, we received a NASDAQ Staff Determination letter stating that, as a result of the delayed filing of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006 (the “Second Quarter Form 10-Q”), we were not in compliance with the filing requirements for continued listing as set forth in the Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14) and were therefore subject to delisting from the NASDAQ Global Select Market. In November 2006, we received an additional letter from NASDAQ of similar substance relating to our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2006 (the “Third Quarter Form 10-Q”). In December 2006, the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel granted our request for continued listing, provided that we file the Second Quarter Form 10-Q, the Third Quarter Form 10-Q and any required restatements with the SEC on or before February 12, 2007. In February 2007, we received a notice from the NASDAQ Listing and Hearing Review Council which advised us that any delisting determination by the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel has been stayed pending further review by the Review Council. In March 2007, we received a NASDAQ Staff Determination letter stating we were not in compliance with the continued listing requirements due to the delayed filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006 (the “2006 Form 10-K”). On May 14, 2007, we received a NASDAQ Staff Determination letter stating that we were not in compliance with the continued listing requirements due to the delayed filing our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2007 (the “First Quarter Form 10-Q”). On May 10, 2007, we received a letter from NASDAQ that the NASDAQ Listing and Hearing Review Council had granted us an exception to demonstrate compliance with the continued listing requirements until June 26, 2007. On June 25, 2007, we received a letter from NASDAQ informing us that the NASDAQ Board of Directors had called for review the decision of the NASDAQ Listing and Hearing Review Council and granted a stay of delisting pending further review by the Board in July 2007. We received a letter dated July 18, 2007 from NASDAQ that the NASDAQ Listing and Hearing Review Council had granted us an exception to demonstrate compliance with the continued listing requirements until September 17, 2007. In addition, if we fail to timely file all of our future periodic reports under the Exchange Act, our common stock may be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Select Market and subsequently would trade on the Pink Sheets. The trading of our common stock on the Pink Sheets may reduce the price of our common stock and the levels of liquidity available to our stockholders. Our delisting from the NASDAQ Global Select Market and transfer to the Pink Sheets may also result in other negative implications, including the potential loss of confidence by suppliers, customers and employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. Recent rulemaking by the Financial Accounting Standards Board requires us to expense equity compensation given to our employees and may reduce our ability to effectively utilize equity compensation to attract and retain employees. We historically have used stock options as a significant component of our employee compensation program in order to align employees’ interests with the interests of our stockholders, encourage employee retention, and provide competitive compensation packages. The Financial Accounting Standards Board has adopted changes that require companies to record a charge to earnings for employee stock option grants and other equity incentives effective January 1, 2006, which we have adopted. By causing us to incur significantly increased compensation costs, such accounting changes may cause us to reduce the availability and amount of equity incentives provided to employees, which may make it more difficult for us to attract, retain and motivate key personnel. 25 In addition, in order to eliminate the compensation expense associated with unvested employee stock options with an exercise price of $4.00 or greater at that time, in December 2005, we accelerated the vesting on the majority of these options. The acceleration of these unvested options may affect our ability to retain key personnel. We expect that a majority of our revenues will be generated from a limited number of customers and we will not be successful if we do not grow our customer base. To date, we have shipped our products to a limited number of customers. We expect that in the foreseeable future, the majority of our revenues will continue to depend on sales of our products to a limited number of customers. Three customers each contributed more than 10% of our revenues in fiscal 2006, or approximately 43% of our revenues in the aggregate. One customer contributed approximately 28% of our revenues in fiscal 2005. Two customers each contributed more than 10%, or approximately 29% in the aggregate, of our revenues in fiscal 2004. Our future success will depend on our ability to attract additional customers beyond our current limited number. The growth of our customer base could be adversely affected by: · acquisitions of or by our customers; · customer unwillingness to implement our new voice infrastructure products or renew contracts as they expire; · potential customer concerns with selecting an emerging telecommunications equipment vendor; · delays or difficulties that we may incur in completing the development and introduction of our planned products or product enhancements; · further deterioration in the general financial condition of service providers, including additional bankruptcies, or inability to raise capital; · new product introductions by our competitors; · failure of our products to perform as expected; or · difficulties we may incur in meeting customers’ delivery requirements. The loss of any of our significant customers or any substantial reduction in orders or contractual commitments from these customers could materially and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. If we do not expand our customer base to include additional customers that deploy our products in operational commercial networks, our business, operating results and financial position could be materially and adversely affected. Our business has been adversely affected by developments in the telecommunications industry and these developments may continue to affect our revenues and operating results. From our inception through the year 2000, the telecommunications market experienced rapid growth spurred by a number of factors, including deregulation in the industry, entry of a large number of new emerging service providers, growth in data traffic and the availability of significant capital from the financial markets. Commencing in 2001, the telecommunications industry experienced a reversal of some of these trends, marked by dramatic reductions in capital expenditures, financial difficulties, and, in some cases, bankruptcies of service providers. These conditions caused a substantial, unexpected reduction in demand for telecommunications equipment, including our products. We expect some of the developments described above to continue to affect our business in the following manner: · our ability to accurately forecast revenue and plan our business is diminished; 26 · our revenues could be unexpectedly reduced; and · we may incur losses because a high percentage of our operating expenses are expected to continue to be fixed in the short-term. Any one or a combination of the above could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial position. Consolidation in the telecommunications industry could harm our business. The industry has experienced consolidation and we expect this trend to continue. Consolidation among our customers may cause delays or reductions in capital expenditure plans and/or increased competitive pricing pressures as the number of available customers declines and their relative purchasing power increases in relation to suppliers. Any of these factors could adversely affect our business. The market for voice infrastructure products for the public network is new and evolving and our business will suffer if it does not develop as we expect. The market for our products continues to evolve. In particular, wireless, cable and broadband access networks are becoming important markets for our products. Packet-based technology may not become widely accepted as a platform for voice and a viable market for our products may not be sustainable. If this market does not develop, or develops more slowly than we expect, we may not be able to sell our products in significant volume. If we do not anticipate and meet specific customer requirements or if our products do not interoperate with our customers’ existing networks, we may not retain current customers or attract new customers. To achieve market acceptance for our products, we must effectively anticipate, and adapt in a timely manner to, customer requirements and offer products and services that meet changing customer demands. Prospective customers may require product features and capabilities that our current products do not have. The introduction of new or enhanced products also requires that we carefully manage the transition from older products in order to minimize disruption in customer ordering patterns and ensure that adequate supplies of new products can be delivered to meet anticipated customer demand. If we fail to develop products and offer services that satisfy customer requirements, or to effectively manage the transition from older products, our ability to create or increase demand for our products would be seriously harmed and we may lose current and prospective customers. Many of our customers will require that our products be designed to interface with their existing networks, each of which may have different specifications. Issues caused by an unanticipated lack of interoperability may result in significant warranty, support and repair costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our hardware and software development efforts and cause significant customer relations problems. If our products do not interoperate with those of our customers’ networks, installations could be delayed or orders for our products could be cancelled, which would seriously harm our gross margins and result in loss of revenues or customers. Our large customers have substantial negotiating leverage, which may require that we agree to terms and conditions that may have an adverse effect on our business. Large telecommunications providers have substantial purchasing power and leverage in negotiating contractual arrangements with us. These customers may require us to develop additional features and require penalties for failure to deliver such features. As we seek to sell more products to this class of customer, we may be required to agree to such terms and conditions, which may affect the timing of 27 revenue recognition and amount of deferred revenues and may adversely affect our financial position in the applicable period affected. We rely on distribution partners to sell our products in certain markets, and disruptions to or our failure to effectively develop and manage our distribution channel and the processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products in those markets. Our future success is highly dependent upon establishing and maintaining successful relationships with a variety of value-added reseller and distribution partners. A portion of our revenues is derived through distributors, many of which sell competitive products. Our revenues depend in part on sales by these distributors. The loss of or reduction in sales by these distributors could materially reduce our revenues. If we fail to maintain relationships with these distribution partners, fail to develop new relationships with distributors in new markets, fail to manage, train, or provide incentives to existing distributors effectively or if these partners are not successful in their sales efforts, sales of our products may decrease and our operating results could suffer. In addition, we recognize a portion of our revenue based on a sell-through model using information provided by our distributors. If those distributors provide us with inaccurate or untimely information, the amount or timing of our revenues could be adversely affected. We may face risks associated with our international expansion that could impair our ability to grow our international revenues. International revenues approximated $78 million and $48 million in fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, respectively, and we intend to expand our sales in international markets. This expansion will require significant management attention and financial resources to successfully develop direct and indirect international sales and support channels. In addition, we may not be able to develop international market demand for our products, which could impair our ability to grow our revenues. We have limited experience marketing, distributing and supporting our products internationally and, to do so, we expect that we will need to develop versions of our products that comply with local standards. Furthermore, international operations are subject to other inherent risks, including: · reliance on distributors and resellers; · greater difficulty collecting accounts receivable and longer collection cycles; · difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations; · the impact of differing technical standards outside the United States; · the impact of recessions in economies outside the United States; · changes in regulatory requirements and currency exchange rates; · certification requirements; · reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; · potentially adverse tax consequences; and · political and economic instability. The unpredictability of our quarterly results may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Our revenues and operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and any of which may cause our stock price to fluctuate. Generally, purchases by service providers of telecommunications equipment from manufacturers have 28 been unpredictable and clustered, rather than steady, as the providers build out their networks. The primary factors that may affect our revenues and operating results include the following: · fluctuation in demand for our voice infrastructure products and the timing and size of customer orders; · the cancellation or deferral of existing customer orders or the renegotiation of existing contractual commitments; · the length and variability of the sales cycle for our products; · the timing of revenue recognition; · new product introductions and enhancements by our competitors or by us; · changes in our pricing policies, the pricing policies of our competitors and the prices of the components of our products; · our ability to develop, introduce and ship new products and product enhancements that meet customer requirements in a timely manner; · the mix of product configurations sold; · our ability to obtain sufficient supplies of sole or limited source components; · our ability to attain and maintain production volumes and quality levels for our products; · costs related to acquisitions of complementary products, technologies or businesses; · general economic conditions, as well as those specific to the telecommunications, networking and related industries; · consolidation within the telecommunications industry, including acquisitions of or by our customers; and · the application of complex revenue recognition accounting rules to our customer arrangements. As with other telecommunications product suppliers, we may recognize a portion of our revenue in a given quarter from sales booked and shipped in the last weeks of that quarter. As a result, delays in customer orders may result in delays in shipments and recognition of revenue beyond the end of a given quarter. A significant portion of our operating expenses is fixed in the short-term. If revenues for a particular quarter are below expectations, we may not be able to reduce operating expenses proportionally for the quarter. Any such revenue shortfall would, therefore, have a significant effect on our operating results for the quarter. Although we achieved profitability on an annual basis in fiscal 2006, fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004, we have incurred a net loss in certain quarters and may incur additional losses in future quarters and years. Our revenues may not grow and we may never generate sufficient revenues to sustain profitability. We believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. It is likely that in some future quarters, our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which may adversely affect our stock price. 29 We are entirely dependent upon our voice infrastructure products, and our future revenues depend upon their commercial success. Our future growth depends upon the commercial success of our voice infrastructure products. We intend to develop and introduce new products and enhancements to existing products in the future. We may not successfully complete the development or introduction of these products. If our target customers do not adopt, purchase and successfully deploy our current or planned products, our revenues will not grow. If we do not respond rapidly to technological changes or to changes in industry standards, our products could become obsolete. The market for packet voice infrastructure products is likely to be characterized by rapid technological change and frequent new product introductions. We may be unable to respond quickly or effectively to these developments. We may experience difficulties with software development, hardware design, manufacturing or marketing that could delay or prevent our development, introduction or marketing of new products and enhancements. The introduction of new products by our competitors, the market acceptance of products based on new or alternative technologies or the emergence of new industry standards could render our existing or future products obsolete. If the standards adopted are different from those that we have chosen to support, market acceptance of our products may be significantly reduced or delayed. If our products become technologically obsolete, we may be unable to sell our products in the marketplace and generate revenues. If we fail to compete successfully against incumbent telecommunications equipment companies, our ability to increase our revenues and sustain profitability will be impaired. Competition in the telecommunications market is intense. This market has historically been dominated by large incumbent telecommunications equipment companies, such as Alcatel-Lucent, NEC, Nortel Networks, Nokia Siemens and Ericsson, all of which are our direct competitors. We also face competition from other large telecommunications and networking companies, including Cisco Systems, some of which have entered our market by acquiring companies that design competing products. Alcatel and Lucent recently completed their merger. Siemens has combined its networking business with Nokia’s networking business. Other competitors may merge, intensifying competition. Additional competitors with significant financial resources also may enter our markets and further intensify competition. Many of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater selling and marketing, technical, manufacturing, financial and other resources. Further, some of our competitors sell significant amounts of other products to our current and prospective customers and have the ability to offer lower prices to win business. Our competitors’ broad product portfolios, coupled with already existing relationships, may cause our customers to buy our competitors’ products or harm our ability to attract new customers. To compete effectively, we must deliver innovative products that: · provide extremely high reliability and voice quality; · scale easily and efficiently; · interoperate with existing network designs and other vendors’ equipment; · provide effective network management; · are accompanied by comprehensive customer support and professional services; · provide a cost-effective and space efficient solution for service providers; and · meet price competition from low cost equipment providers. 30 If we are unable to compete successfully against our current and future competitors, we could experience price reductions, order cancellations, loss of customers and revenues and reduced gross profit margins. Because our products are sophisticated and designed to be deployed in complex environments, they may have errors or defects that we find only after full deployment, which could seriously harm our business. Our products are sophisticated and are designed to be deployed in large and complex networks. Because of the nature of our products, they can only be fully tested when substantially deployed in very large networks with high volumes of traffic. Some of our customers have only recently begun to commercially deploy our products and they may discover errors or defects in the software or hardware, or the products may not operate as expected. As we continue to expand our distribution channel through distributors and resellers, we will need to rely on and support their service and support organizations. If we are unable to fix errors or other performance problems that may be identified after full deployment of our products, we could experience: · loss of, or delay in, revenues; · loss of customers and market share; · a failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance for our products; · increased service, support and warranty costs and a diversion of development resources; and · costly and time-consuming legal actions by our customers. Because our products are deployed in large, complex networks around the world, failure to establish a support infrastructure and maintain required support levels could seriously harm our business. Our products are deployed in large and complex networks around the world. Our customers expect us to establish a support infrastructure and maintain demanding support standards to ensure that their networks maintain high levels of availability and performance. To support the continued growth of our business, our support organization will need to provide service and support at a high level throughout the world. If we are unable to provide the expected level of support and service to our customers, we could experience: · loss of customers and market share; · a failure to attract new customers in new geographies; · increased service, support and warranty costs and a diversion of development resources; and · network performance penalties. We have experienced changes in our senior management which could affect our business and operations. We have made significant changes in our senior management team since January 1, 2006. Because of these significant changes, our management team may not be able to work together effectively to successfully develop and implement our business strategies. In addition, management will need to devote significant attention and resources to preserve and strengthen relationships with employees, customers and the investor community. If our new management team is unable to achieve these goals, our ability to grow our business and successfully meet operational challenges could be impaired. 31 If we fail to hire and retain needed personnel, the implementation of our business plan could slow or our future growth could halt. Our business depends upon highly skilled engineering, sales, marketing and customer support personnel. Any failure to hire or retain needed qualified personnel could impair our growth. We face increased risk associated with employee retention due to restrictions imposed on our employees’ ability to exercise stock options, delays in stock purchases under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan and the adverse tax impact of Section 409A on our employees’ stock options—all of which resulted from our review of historical stock granting practices and the restatement of our financial statements. Our future success depends upon the continued services of our executive officers who have critical industry experience and relationships that we rely on to implement our business plan. None of our officers or key employees are bound by an employment agreement for any specific term. The loss of the services of any of our officers or key employees could delay the development and introduction of, and negatively impact our ability to sell, our products. If we are subject to employment claims, we could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves. We may become subject to employment claims in connection with employee terminations. In addition, companies in our industry whose employees accept positions with competitors may claim that their competitors have engaged in unfair hiring practices. These claims may result in material litigation. We could incur substantial costs defending ourselves or our employees against those claims, regardless of their merits. In addition, defending ourselves from those types of claims could divert our management’s attention from our operations. If we are found liable in connection with any employment claim, we may incur significant costs that could adversely impact our financial position and results of operations. We depend upon a single contract manufacturer and any disruption in this relationship may cause us to fail to meet the demands of our customers and damage our customer relationships. We rely on a contract manufacturer to manufacture our products according to our specifications and to fill orders on a timely basis. Our contract manufacturer provides comprehensive manufacturing services, including assembly and certain tests of our products and procurement of materials. Our contract manufacturer also builds products for other companies and may not always have sufficient quantities of inventory available to fill our orders or may not allocate their internal resources to fill these orders on a timely basis. We do not have a long-term supply contract with our manufacturer nor is our manufacturer required to manufacture products for any specified period. We do not have internal manufacturing capabilities to meet our customers’ demands. Qualifying a new contract manufacturer and commencing commercial scale production is expensive and time consuming and could result in a significant interruption in the supply of our products. If a change in contract manufacturers results in delays in our fulfillment of customer orders or if a contract manufacturer fails to make timely delivery of orders, we may lose revenues and suffer damage to our customer relationships. In 2006, we consolidated our manufacturing to a single contract manufacturer. We also intend to move our contract manufacturing to a lower cost, offshore facility. If we do not manage this consolidation effectively, these consolidation activities could result in the disruption in the supply of our products and in delays in our fulfillment of customer orders. We and our contract manufacturer rely on single or limited sources for supply of some components of our products and if we fail to adequately predict our manufacturing requirements or if our supply of any of these components is disrupted, we will be unable to ship our products. We and our contract manufacturer currently purchase several key components of our products, including commercial digital signal processors, from single or limited sources. We purchase these components on a purchase order basis. If we overestimate our component requirements, we could have 32 excess inventory, which would increase our costs. If we underestimate our requirements, we may not have an adequate supply, which could interrupt manufacturing of our products and result in delays in shipments and revenues. We currently do not have long-term supply contracts with our component suppliers and they are not required to supply us with products for any specified periods, in any specified quantities or at any set price, except as may be specified in a particular purchase order. In the event of a disruption or delay in supply, or inability to obtain products, we may not be able to develop an alternate source in a timely manner or at favorable prices, or at all. A failure to find acceptable alternative sources could hurt our ability to deliver high-quality products to our customers and negatively affect our operating margins. In addition, reliance on our suppliers exposes us to potential supplier production difficulties or quality variations. Our customers rely upon our ability to meet committed delivery dates, and any disruption in the supply of key components would seriously adversely affect our ability to meet these dates and could result in legal action by our customers, loss of customers or harm our ability to attract new customers. If we are not able to obtain necessary licenses of third-party technology at acceptable prices, or at all, our products could become obsolete. We have incorporated third-party licensed technology into our current products. From time to time, we may be required to license additional technology from third parties to develop new products or product enhancements. Third-party licenses may not be available or continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. The inability to maintain or re-license any third-party licenses required in our current products or to obtain any new third-party licenses to develop new products and product enhancements could require us to obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards or at greater cost, and delay or prevent us from making these products or enhancements, any of which could seriously harm the competitiveness of our products. Failures by our strategic partners or by us in integrating products provided by our strategic partners could seriously harm our business. Our solutions include the integration of products supplied by strategic partners, who offer complementary products and services. We rely on these strategic partners in the timely and successful deployment of our solutions to our customers. If the products provided by these partners have defects or do not operate as expected or if we do not effectively integrate and support products supplied by these strategic partners, then we may have difficulty with the deployment of our solutions that may result in: · loss of, or delay in, revenues; · increased service, support and warranty costs and a diversion of development resources; and · network performance penalties. In addition to cooperating with our strategic partners on specific customer projects, we also may compete in some areas with these same partners. If these strategic partners fail to perform or choose not to cooperate with us on certain projects, in addition to the effects described above, we could experience: · loss of customers and market share; and · a failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance for our products. Our ability to compete and our business could be jeopardized if we are unable to protect our intellectual property or become subject to intellectual property rights claims, which could require us to incur significant costs. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, 33 unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology. Monitoring unauthorized use of our products is difficult and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. If competitors are able to use our technology, our ability to compete effectively could be harmed. In addition, we have received inquiries from other patent holders and may become subject to claims that we infringe their intellectual property rights. Any parties asserting that our products infringe upon their proprietary rights could force us to license their patents for substantial royalty payments or to defend ourselves and possibly our customers or contract manufacturers in litigation. These claims and any resulting licensing arrangement or lawsuit, if successful, could subject us to significant royalty payments or liability for damages and invalidation of our proprietary rights. Any potential intellectual property litigation also could force us to do one or more of the following: · stop selling, incorporating or using our products that use the challenged intellectual property; · obtain from the owner of the infringed intellectual property right a license to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; or · redesign those products that use any allegedly infringing technology. Any lawsuits regarding intellectual property rights, regardless of their success, would be time-consuming, expensive to resolve and would divert our management’s time and attention. On June 14, 2006, C2 Communications Technologies, Inc. (“C2 Communications”) sued AT&T, Inc., Verizon Communications, Inc., Qwest Communications International, Inc. (“Qwest”), Bellsouth Corporation (“Bellsouth”), Sprint Nextel Corporation, Global Crossing Limited (“Global Crossing”) and Level 3 Communications, Inc. (“Level 3”) in the Eastern District of Texas, Marshall Division. C2 Communications has alleged that each of the defendants infringe U.S. Patent No. 6,243,373 entitled “Method and Apparatus for Implementing a Computer Network Internet Telephone System.” We have agreed, subject to certain conditions, to assume the defense of Qwest, Global Crossing and Level 3 in this litigation to the extent the claim results from their use of products purchased from us. There can be no assurance that other defendants who have purchased our products will not seek indemnification from us. We believe that the defendants have substantial legal and factual defenses to the infringement claim, which we intend to pursue vigorously on behalf of the defendant for whom we agree or are required to assume defense of the litigation. However, there is no assurance any of the defendants will prevail in defending this action. There also can be no assurance that we will not be required to indemnify any of the defendants from any judgment of infringement rendered against them. We will be required to devote significant time and resources in connection with assuming the defense of the claim of infringement on behalf of the defendants for whom we have agreed to assume defense of the litigation. An adverse outcome with respect to the claim and our indemnification could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Any investments or acquisitions we make could disrupt our business and seriously harm our financial condition. On April 13, 2007, we acquired Zynetix Limited, designers of innovative Global System for Mobile Communications infrastructure solutions. We intend to continue investing in, or acquiring, complementary products, technologies or businesses. In the event of future investments or acquisitions, we could: · issue stock that would dilute our current stockholders’ percentage ownership; · reduce significantly our cash and investments; · incur debt or assume liabilities; 34 · incur significant impairment charges related to the write-off of goodwill and purchased intangible assets; · incur significant amortization expenses related to purchased intangible assets; or · incur large and immediate write-offs for in-process research and development and stock based compensation. Our integration of any acquired products, technologies or businesses will also involve numerous risks, including: · problems and unanticipated costs associated with combining the purchased products, technologies or businesses; · diversion of management’s attention from our core business; · adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; · risks associated with entering markets in which we have limited or no prior experience; · potential loss of key employees, particularly those of the acquired organizations; and · integration of internal controls and financial systems. We may be unable to successfully integrate any products, technologies, businesses or personnel that we might acquire in the future without significant costs or disruption to our business. Regulation of the telecommunications industry could harm our operating results and future prospects. The telecommunications industry is highly regulated and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected by the changes in the regulations relating to the telecommunications industry. Currently, there are few laws or regulations that apply directly to access to or delivery of voice services on IP networks. We could be adversely affected by regulation of IP networks and commerce in any country where we operate, including the United States. Such regulations could include matters such as voice over the Internet or using Internet protocol, encryption technology, and access charges for service providers. The adoption of such regulations could decrease demand for our products, and at the same time increase the cost of selling our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial position. We may seek to raise additional capital in the future, which may not be available to us, and if it is available, may dilute the ownership of our common stock. In April and September 2003, we completed public offerings of 20,000,000 and 17,000,000 shares, respectively, of our common stock resulting in the dilution of our existing investors’ percentage ownership of our common stock. In the future, we may seek to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings in order to: · fund ongoing operations and capital requirements; · take advantage of opportunities, including more rapid expansion or acquisition of complementary products, technologies or businesses; · develop new products; or · respond to competitive pressures. Any additional capital raised through the sale of convertible debt or equity may further dilute an investor’s percentage ownership of our common stock. Furthermore, additional financings may not be 35 available on terms favorable to us, or at all. A failure to obtain additional funding could prevent us from making expenditures that may be required to grow or maintain our operations. Changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income or other tax returns could adversely affect our results. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated earnings in countries where we have higher statutory rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or interpretations thereof. The Internal Revenue Service has notified us that our payroll tax returns have been selected for audit in connection with our stock option review. In addition, we are subject to the potential for examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these potential examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. The market for technology stocks has been and will likely continue to be extremely volatile. The following factors could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly: · the addition or loss of any major customer; · consolidation in the telecommunications industry; · changes in the financial condition or anticipated capital expenditure purchases of any existing or potential major customer; · quarterly variations in our operating results; · changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; · speculation in the press or investment community; · announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, new products or acquisitions, distribution partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · sales of common stock or other securities by us or by our stockholders in the future; · securities and other litigation; · announcement of a stock split, reverse stock split, stock dividend or similar event; · economic conditions for the telecommunications, networking and related industries; and · worldwide economic instability. Provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law have anti-takeover effects that could prevent a change of control. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated by-laws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 36 Item 