Risk factors In conducting our business, we face many risks that may interfere with our business objectives. Some of these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In particular, we are subject to various risks resulting from changing economic, political, industry, business and financial conditions. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. You should carefully consider the following factors and other information in this annual report before you decide to invest in our ordinary shares. If any of the negative events referred to below occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. In any such case, the trading price of our ordinary shares could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Our quarterly operating results are subject to significant fluctuations. Our quarterly operating results are subject to significant fluctuations and are difficult to predict. Historically, a significant percentage of our quarterly revenues has been derived from orders placed towards the end of a given quarter. If sales forecasted from a specific customer for a particular quarter are not realized in that quarter, we may not be able to generate revenues from alternate sources in time to compensate for the shortfall. Also, frequently our quarterly revenue performance depends upon a sale of significant size to a single customer. Due to the relatively large size of some orders, a lost or delayed sale could have a material adverse effect on our quarterly revenue. The factors that may cause significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results include, but are not limited to, the following: · the volume and timing of customer orders, including a trend toward larger customers generating larger transactions; · internal budget constraints and approval processes of our customers; · the length and unpredictability of our sales cycle; · the recognition of a portion of our revenues on a contract accounting basis; · the indirect nature of some of our sales efforts through our channel and strategic partners; · the mix of revenue generated by product licenses and professional services; · new product introductions or enhancements by us or our competitors; · price and product competition; · changes to our pricing strategies and those of our competitors; · timing and amount of sales and marketing expenses; · changes in the composition and success of our business and partner relationships; · technical difficulties affecting the operation of our software; · foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; · general economic conditions, including a prolonged economic recession; and · difficulties in collecting accounts receivable. 20-F ClickSoftware Technologies Ltd. Page 6 Because of the numerous factors that may cause significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and that such comparisons should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. We may not be able to maintain profitability. Although we recorded a profit for fiscal years 2006 through 2008, we may not generate sufficient revenues to maintain profitability in the future. To maintain profitability, we must increase our revenues while controlling or reducing our expenses. We expect to continue to incur significant sales and marketing and research and development expenses. Some of our expenses, such as administrative and management payroll and rent and utilities, are fixed in the short term, must be incurred in advance of when revenue is generated and cannot be quickly reduced if we experience revenue declines. Therefore, if our projected revenue does not meet our expectations, we are likely to experience an even larger adverse impact on our operating profit. As a result, we must generate and maintain growing revenues to maintain profitability, which we may not accomplish. The deteriorating general economic outlook may adversely affect our business. Our business depends on the overall demand for our products and services and on the economic health of our current and potential customers. As widely reported, financial markets throughout the world have been experiencing extreme disruption in recent months, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others, failure and potential failures of major financial institutions and unprecedented government support of financial institutions. These developments and the related general economic downturn may adversely affect our business in a number of additional ways, including impacts beyond those typically associated with other recent downturns in the U.S. and foreign economies. The slowdown may adversely affect the budgeting and purchasing behavior of our customers, which could adversely affect our product sales. The current tightening of credit in financial markets and the general economic downturn may adversely affect the ability of our customers, suppliers and channel partners (e.g., distributors and resellers) to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations and to perform their contractual obligations with us. As a result, we could encounter, among other adverse effects, a decrease in or cancellation of orders for our products and services and an increase in additional reserves for uncollectible accounts receivable being required. We are unable to predict the duration and severity of the current economic downturn and disruption in financial markets or their effects on our business, but the consequences may be materially adverse and more severe than other recent economic slowdowns. To the extent that general economic conditions continue to worsen and information technology spending declines, the demand for our products and services, and therefore our future revenues, could be materially and adversely affected. Nearly all of our cash, cash equivalents and short and long-term investments do not benefit from deposit insurance. As of December 31, 2008, we had cash, cash equivalents and short and long-term investments of approximately $32 million, compared to $25 million at the end of 2007. The vast majority of this cash and investments is held mainly in bank deposits located in various countries. Although the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the "FDIC") protects depositors against the loss of their deposits if an FDIC-insured bank or savings association fails, such protection is limited to an insurance amount of $250,000 per depositor, per insured bank. Nearly all of our cash and investments are not insured by the FDIC or similar governmental deposit insurance outside the United States. In the event that a bank holding our cash or investments is unable to honor its deposit obligations, we could lose our cash or investments and such losses may not be fully insured. Any such event could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The complexity of accounting regulations and related interpretations and policies, particularly with regard to revenue recognition, could cause us to defer revenue and materially affect our financial results for a given period. We frequently enter into contracts where, due to revenue recognition criteria, we recognize only a portion of the total revenue under the contract in the quarter in which we enter into the contract. For example, we may 20-F ClickSoftware Technologies Ltd. Page 7 recognize revenue on a ratable basis over the life of the contract. The portion of revenues recognized on a deferred basis may vary significantly in any given quarter, and revenues in any given quarter are a function both of contracts signed in such quarter and contracts signed in prior quarters. In addition, we may be required to apply project accounting, based on SOP 81-1 “Accounting for Performance of Construction-Type and Certain Production-Type Contracts,” using contract accounting on the percentage-of-completion method based on the relationship of actual working hours incurred to total working hours estimated to be incurred over the duration of the contract. When project accounting is applied, license revenues may be adversely affected by delays in the progress of the implementation. As a result, revenues in any quarter could be deferred and our financial results for a given period could be materially affected by our treatment of revenue recognition. Our sales cycle is variable, often long, dependent on factors outside our control and involves investment of significant resources on our part, but may never result in actual sales. The length of our sales cycle – the period between initial contact with a potential customer and the signing of a license and related agreements - has historically been lengthy and variable, typically lasting from three to nine months. We generally must educate our potential customers about the use and benefit of our products and services, which can require the investment of significant time and resources, causing us to incur most of our selling and marketing expenses in advance of a potential sale. In addition, a number of companies decide which products to buy through a request for proposal process. In those situations, we run the risk of investing significant resources in a proposal that results in a competitor obtaining the desired contract from the customer or in a decision by a customer not to proceed. Sales of licenses are subject to a number of risks outside our control, including budgeting, approval and competitive evaluation processes that typically accompany significant capital expenditures. Potential customers consider many factors in evaluating our products, and the length of time a customer devotes to evaluation, contract negotiation and budgeting processes vary significantly from company to company. In certain circumstances, we may invest significant resources in a sales process that does not result in actual sales. Our implementation cycle depends on factors outside our control. Depending on the nature and specific needs of a customer, the implementation of our products typically takes six to twelve months. During the implementation cycle, there are a number of factors beyond our control that may affect the implementation timeline, including a customer’s budgetary constraints and internal acceptance reviews, the success and continued internal support of a customer’s own development efforts, the nature, size and specific needs of a customer, the possibility that a customer cancels an order and the level and quality of service provided by third-party implementation and professional services partners. Long implementation cycles may delay the recognition of revenue as some of our customers engage us to perform system implementation services, which can defer revenue recognition for the related software license revenue. In addition, when we experience long implementation cycles, we may incur costs at a higher level than anticipated, which may reduce the anticipated profitability of a given implementation. Because our implementation cycle depends on factors outside of our control, we may experience delays or other complications with our implementation timeline that may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The market may not accept our products and services. Historically, all of our operating revenue has come from sales of, and services related to, our end-to-end service chain optimization suite of products (our "Service Optimization Suite"), which includes ClickSchedule, ClickFix, ClickAnalyze, ClickPlan, ClickMobile, ClickRoster, ClickForecast, ClickLocate, ClickIMRS and ClickContact. We continually aim to improve and enhance our Service Optimization Suite to meet market requirements and our growth depends on the market acceptance of these products and services. If our products and services do not achieve continued customer acceptance, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. We face competition, which could make it difficult to compete successfully. The market for our products is competitive and rapidly changing. Competition may increase in the future as current competitors expand their product offerings and new companies attempt to enter the market. In addition, smaller competitors have been acquired by large organizations with broader product offerings. 20-F ClickSoftware Technologies Ltd. Page 8 Our industry has witnessed a substantial amount of merger and acquisition activity over the past few years and this trend of industry consolidation will likely continue, particularly as larger, better capitalized companies seek to acquire smaller, weaker rivals that have been adversely affected by the economic downturn. Competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the products and services they offer. Some of our current and potential competitors are among the largest and most well capitalized software companies in the world and have significant competitive advantages over us, including greater name recognition, longer operating histories, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, public relations, sales, distribution and other resources than us. Because the market for service and delivery optimization software is evolving, we expect additional competition from other established and emerging companies if this market continues to develop and expand. For example, we could face competition from our strategic partners or from other companies that may in future decide to enter and compete in our market. In particular, since our contracts with resellers generally do not include non-competition provisions, it may be easier for these partners to compete with us in the future. Competition could result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced gross margin and loss of market share, any of which could cause our business, financial condition and results of operations to suffer. We may not be able to compete successfully with existing or future competitors. If we fail to compete successfully against current and future competitors, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. If we fail to expand our relationships with third parties that provide implementation and professional services to our customers, we may be unable to increase our revenues. In order for us to focus more effectively on our core business of developing and licensing software solutions, we must continue to establish relationships with third parties that provide implementation and professional services to our customers. Third-party implementation and professional services firms can be influential in the choice of service optimization applications by new customers. These third parties are under no obligation to recommend or support our products; they could recommend or give higher priority to the products of other companies or to their own products. If we are unable to establish and maintain effective, long-term relationships with implementation and professional services providers, or if these providers do not meet the needs or expectations of our customers, we may be unable to increase our revenues, which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if we establish relationships with these third party implementation and professional services firms, we may be unable to attract sufficient focus and resources from them to meet all of our customers’ needs as a result of the limited resources and capacities of many third-party providers. If sufficient resources are unavailable, we could be required to provide these services internally, which could limit our ability to meet other demands. We cannot control the level and quality of service provided by these partners. Failure to fully develop or maintain key business relationships could limit our ability to sell additional licenses, thereby decreasing our revenues and increasing our sales and marketing expenses. Our success in penetrating our target markets depends, in part, on our ability to develop and maintain key business relationships with software vendors, value-added resellers, agents, systems integrators, distribution partners and customers. For example, we depend on certain suppliers for the development, supply and support of third-party software components that are integrated into our products. We do not have long-term contracts with some of these suppliers, and they are not obligated to provide us with products or services for any specified period of time. If we fail to maintain these relationships, our ability to sell additional licenses could be limited. We have entered into agreements with third parties relating to the integration of our products with their product offerings and distribution, reselling and consulting services. For example, in 2008 we entered into a global reseller agreement with SAP AG, pursuant to which SAP will resell our Service Optimization Suite. We derive revenues from these agreements, but may not be able to continue to do so in the future. Also, our marketing strategy includes selling through distributors, value-added resellers and agents, as well as direct selling by our own sales force. For example, the marketing strategy for our IMRS product, which was introduced in 2007, is based on cooperation with these partners. We may not be successful extending the terms of our various agreements or establishing similar relationships with these partners if our current agreements expire or are terminated. Furthermore, if any of our software vendors cease production, cease operations or fail to timely deliver orders, we could be required to provide these services internally, which could limit our ability to meet other demands and we may not be able to meet our delivery obligations to our customers, in which case we could lose revenues and harm our customer relationships. If we fail to fully develop or maintain key business 20-F ClickSoftware Technologies Ltd. Page 9 relationships, we could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We depend on key personnel, and the loss of any key personnel could affect our ability to compete and impair our ability to attract additional key personnel. Our future success depends on the continued service of our executive officers and other key sales and marketing, product development and professional services personnel. Competition for these employees can be intense, including in a number of our key markets and locations, such as Israel and India. For example, in April 2009, we acquired the workforce management business of Manchitra Services Private Limited ("Manchitra"), a business based in India, for approximately $2.7 million. Competition for qualified information technology employees in India is particularly intense, and we may have difficulty retaining key employees at Manchitra and recruiting new employees. More generally, we may be unable to attract and retain a sufficient number of highly qualified professional services personnel to meet our business needs. Customers that license our software typically engage our professional services organization to assist with the installation and operation of our software applications. Our professional services organization also typically assists with the maintenance, management and expansion of our customers' software systems. Future growth in licenses of our software will depend, in part, on our ability to continue providing customers with these services. To the extent that we receive several large orders simultaneously or in close proximity to one another, we could place added strain on our existing personnel. The market for the qualified personnel we require is very competitive because of the limited number of people available with the necessary technical and sales skills and understanding of our products and technology. If we are unable to maintain and expand our professional services organization, our ability to support our service business would be limited. The services of our key personnel would be difficult to replace and the loss of any of these employees could harm our business significantly. Although we have employment agreements with our executive officers that generally require 60 to 90 days notification prior to departure, our relationships with these officers and key employees are at will and can be terminated by either party without cause. The loss of any of our key personnel could harm our ability to execute our business strategy and remain competitive. Any future mergers with or acquisitions of companies, products or technologies and the resultant integration process may distract our management and disrupt our business. One of our business strategies is to consider strategic partnerships, alliances, mergers and/or acquisitions of complementary businesses, products and technologies. Mergers with or acquisitions of companies, products or technologies involve a number of risks, including: · the diversion of management time and resources; · the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of the merged or acquired companies; · the possibility the business cultures will not be compatible; · the difficulty of incorporating acquired technology and rights into our products and services; · unanticipated expenses related to integration of the acquired companies; · difficulties in implementing and maintaining uniform standards, controls and policies; · the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of any integration of new personnel; · potential inability to retain, integrate and motivate key management, marketing, technical sales and customer support personnel; · potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired businesses; and · impairment of goodwill and other assets acquired. Our acquisition of Manchitra presents a number of challenges. For example, our business culture may clash with the business culture of Manchitra. Also, because the information technology market in India is characterized by a high rate of turnover among information technology professionals, we may have difficulty retaining key employees at Manchitra and recruiting new employees. Pursuant to our business strategy, we will continue to consider additional merger or acquisition transactions. 20-F ClickSoftware Technologies Ltd. Page 10 Any future merger and acquisition activity could distract our management and disrupt our business, thereby materially and adversely affecting our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our market may experience rapid technological changes that could cause our products to fail or require us to redesign our products, which would result in increased research and development expenses. Our market is characterized by rapid technological change, dynamic customer needs and frequent introductions of new products and product enhancements. If we fail to anticipate or respond adequately to technology developments and customer requirements, or if our product development or introduction is delayed, our business will suffer. Client product requirements can change rapidly as a result of computer hardware and software innovations or changes in and the emergence, evolution and adoption of new industry standards. The actual or anticipated introduction of new products has resulted, and will continue to result, in some reformulation of our product offerings. Technology and industry standards can make existing products obsolete or unmarketable or result in delays in the purchase of such products. As a result, the life cycles of our products are difficult to estimate. We must respond to developments rapidly and continue to make substantial product development investments. We have previously experienced delays in introducing new products and features, and we may experience delays in the future that could impair our revenue and operating results. Our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected if we fail to respond to our rapidly changing market by enhancing our product functionality to meet our customers' needs. Our revenues depend on a small number of products, and our results may be vulnerable to unexpected shifts in demand. ClickSchedule accounted for the majority of our license revenues in each of 2008, 2007 and 2006 and we expect that this will be the case in future periods. Accordingly, any decline in the demand for ClickSchedule will have a material adverse effect on our license revenues. A decline in the demand for ClickSchedule may also reduce revenues derived from our other products. Our products could be susceptible to errors or defects or contain inaccurate data from third-party vendors. Complex software products, such as ours, often contain errors or defects, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. In the past, some of our products have contained errors and defects that have delayed implementation or required us to expend additional resources to correct the problems. Testing of our products is particularly challenging because it is difficult to simulate the wide variety of customer environments in several geographic markets into which our products are deployed. Despite internal testing, testing by current and potential customers and the history of use by our installed base of customers, our current and future products may contain defects or errors. Any such defects or errors could result in adverse customer reaction and publicity, damage to our reputation, diversion of resources, increased service and maintenance costs, loss of market demand, loss of market share, loss of potential new customers, lost revenues, liability or a delay in market acceptance of these products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The performance of our products also depends, in part, upon the accuracy and continued availability of third-party data. We rely on third parties that provide information such as street and address locations and mapping functions that we incorporate into our products. If these parties do not provide accurate information, or if we are unable to maintain our relationships with them, our reputation and competitive position could suffer and we could be unable to develop or enhance our products as required. Our intellectual property could be used by third parties without our consent because protection of our intellectual property is limited. Our success and ability to compete substantially depend upon our internally developed technology, which we protect through a combination of trade secrets, copyrights, trademarks, patents and intellectual property law, together with non-disclosure and invention assignment agreements. These legal protections provide only limited protection. Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology. Policing unauthorized use of our products and technology is difficult and costly, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. The steps we have taken may not prevent infringement or misappropriation of our intellectual property rights. 20-F ClickSoftware Technologies Ltd. Page 11 Our end-user licenses are designed to prohibit unauthorized use, copying or disclosure of our software and technology in the United States, Israel and other foreign countries. However, these provisions may be unenforceable under the laws of some jurisdictions. Unauthorized third parties may be able to copy portions of our products, reverse engineer or obtain and use information and technology that we regard as proprietary. In addition, some of our licensed users may allow additional unauthorized users to use our software, and if we do not detect such use, we could lose potential license fees. In addition, as we deepen our ties with our channel and strategic partners, the number of people who are exposed to and interact with our software and other intellectual property increases. Despite our best efforts to protect our intellectual property, our channel or strategic partners, or their employees or customers, may copy portions of our products or otherwise obtain and use information and technology that we regard as proprietary. Our channel or strategic partners might also improperly incorporate portions of our technology into their own products or otherwise exceed the authorized scope of their licenses to our technology. If we are unable to successfully detect infringement and/or to enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitiveness may be adversely effected. Our technology and other intellectual property may be subject to infringement claims. Substantial litigation regarding technology rights and other intellectual property rights exists in the software industry both in terms of infringement and ownership issues. We expect that software products may be increasingly subject to third-party infringement or ownership claims as the number of competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. A successful claim of patent, copyright or trademark infringement or conflicting ownership rights against us could require us to make changes in our business. Third parties may make a claim of infringement or conflicting ownership rights against us with respect to our products and technology. Any claims, with or without merit, could: · be expensive and time-consuming to defend; · divert management’s attention and resources; · cause product shipment and installation delays; or · require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements to obtain the right to use a necessary product or component, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We also indemnify some of our customers against claims that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others. We have only conducted a partial search for existing patents and other intellectual property registrations, and our products may infringe issued patents. In addition, because most patent applications are not publicly disclosed until some time after the application is filed, applications may have been filed that relate to our products. If a successful claim was made against us and we failed to commercially develop or license a substitute technology, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If our relationships with our key customers are terminated, our revenues will decline and our business will be adversely affected. During 2008, our five largest customers together accounted for approximately 38% of our revenues. If for any reason, our relationship with a key customer is terminated, or if any of our key customers reduces purchases of our products, then our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The impact of the termination or reduction in demand of a key customer would be intensified if we were unable to increase sales to other customers to offset this termination or reduction in demand. We expect that a significant portion of our future revenues will continue to be derived from a small number of customers. Our business is susceptible to numerous risks associated with international operations. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from international sales and we maintain significant portions of our operations outside the United States. We expect international revenues to continue to account for a significant percentage of total revenues and we believe we must continue to expand our international sales and professional services activities to be successful. Our facilities are located in North America, Israel, the European continent, the United Kingdom, Australia, India and Japan, and our executive officers and other key 20-F ClickSoftware Technologies Ltd. Page 12 employees are dispersed throughout the world. This geographic dispersion requires significant management resources that may place us at a disadvantage compared to our locally-based competitors. In addition, our international operations are generally subject to a number of risks, including but not limited to: · foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; · longer sales cycles; · multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations; · difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; · licenses, tariffs and other trade barriers; · loss of proprietary information due to piracy, misappropriation or weaker laws regarding intellectual property protection; · difficulties in communication and monitoring compliance with our internal corporate controls and policy; · expenses associated with customizing products for foreign countries; · protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competition; · difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; and · political and economic instability. One or more of these risks could harm our future international sales. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if we fail to manage the risk of doing business internationally. Our risk exposure to foreign currency fluctuations is increasing, and we may not be able to fully mitigate the risk. We are exposed to movements in foreign currency exchange rates since we realize our revenues and expenses in several currencies and we translate foreign currencies into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes. Our primary exposures have related to operating expenses and sales, principally in Europe and Israel, which were not U.S. dollar-denominated. For example, in 2008 our operating expenses increased, in part, due to exchange rate fluctuations. Weakness in the U.S. dollar compared to foreign currencies has significantly increased the cost of our European- and Israel-based operations in recent periods. We continue to expand our global operations, and revenue recognized in currencies other than U.S. dollars may increase. In 2008, 65% of our expenses and 43% of our revenues were incurred in non-U.S. dollar currencies. We incur a portion of our expenses, principally with respect to salaries and related personnel expenses in Israel, in NIS. In 2008, 34% of our expenses were incurred in NIS. Currency fluctuations in any of the currencies in which we operate could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we have balance sheet exposure related to foreign net assets. Although we engage in non-speculative hedging transactions from time to time to minimize the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on earnings, we may not be able to fully mitigate these risks. We are incorporated in Israel and have important facilities and resources located in Israel, which could be negatively affected due to military or political tensions. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel and our research and development facilities, as well as significant executive offices, are located in Israel. Although substantially all of our sales are to customers located outside of Israel, we are directly influenced by the political, economic and military conditions in Israel. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors and a state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Historically, Arab states have boycotted any direct trade with Israel and, to varying degrees, have imposed a secondary boycott on any company carrying on trade with, or doing business in, Israel. Although Israel has entered into agreements with Egypt, Jordan and Palestinian representatives, there have been continued and increasing difficulties in the relationship with the Palestinians and no prediction can be made as to whether a resolution of past problems will be achieved or as to the nature of any such resolution. Beginning in September 2000, the overall relationship and security situation between Israel and the Palestinians deteriorated significantly and has been marked by frequent and continuing violence. In addition, during 2006 there occurred an outbreak of open hostilities along Israel’s northern border with Lebanon, and there have recently been hostilities in the Gaza Strip. 20-F ClickSoftware Technologies Ltd. Page 13 In addition, certain of our employees in our office in Israel are currently obligated to perform up to 36-45 days of annual reserve duty in the Israel Defense Forces and are subject to being called for active military duty at any time. The loss or extended absence of any of our key personnel due to these requirements could harm our business. To date, these matters have not had a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, but they may do so in the future. We are incurring additional costs and devoting more management resources to comply with increasing regulation of corporate governance and disclosure. We spend an increased amount of management time and external resources to understand and comply with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and Nasdaq rules. Devoting the necessary resources to comply with evolving corporate governance and public disclosure standards may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention to compliance activities. Your rights and responsibilities as a shareholder will be governed by Israeli Law and differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel. The rights and responsibilities of holders of our Ordinary Shares are governed by our memorandum of association, articles of association and by Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities may differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in U.S. corporations. In particular, a shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith in exercising his or her rights and fulfilling his or her obligations toward the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing his power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders on certain matters. Israeli law provides that these duties are applicable in shareholder votes at the general meeting with respect to, among other things, amendments to a company's articles of association, increases in a company's authorized share capital, mergers and actions and transactions involving interests of officers, directors or other interested parties which require the shareholders' general meeting's approval. In addition, a controlling shareholder of an Israeli company or a shareholder who knows that he or she possesses the power to determine the outcome of a vote at a meeting of our shareholders, or who has, by virtue of the company's articles of association, the power to appoint or prevent the appointment of an office holder in the company, or any other power with respect to the company, has a duty of fairness toward the company. The Israeli Companies Law does not establish criteria for determining whether or not a shareholder has acted in good faith. Moreover, the law is relatively new and there is no case law available on the duty of a non-controlling shareholder to act in good faith. It may be difficult to effect service of process and enforce judgments against directors, officers and experts in Israel. We are incorporated and maintain significant operations in Israel. Some of our executive officers and directors and the Israeli accountants named as experts in this annual report reside outside the United States and a significant portion of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult for an investor, or any other person or entity, to affect service of process on us or any of those persons or to enforce a U.S. court judgment based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, against us or any of those persons, in an Israeli court. Additionally, it may be difficult for an investor or any other person or entity to enforce civil liabilities under U.S. federal securities laws in original actions instituted in Israel. Our Chief Executive Officer owns a significant percentage of our ordinary shares and could significantly influence the outcome of actions. As of March 31, 2009, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, Dr. Moshe BenBassat beneficially owned approximately 16% of our outstanding ordinary shares in the form of ordinary shares and options for the purchase of our ordinary shares. Dr. BenBassat may be able to influence certain matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors, or a change of control of our 20-F ClickSoftware Technologies Ltd. Page 14 company. These actions may be taken even if our other investors oppose them. The influence of our Chief Executive Officer could adversely affect our stock price. We are subject to anti-takeover provisions that could delay or prevent our acquisition by another entity. Provisions of Israeli corporate and tax law and of our articles of association may have the effect of delaying, preventing or making more difficult any merger or acquisition of us. In addition, any merger or acquisition of us will require the prior consent of the Chief Scientist, as well as the Investment Center of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Employment (the “Investment Center”) . Israeli law regulates mergers, votes required to approve a merger, acquisition of shares through tender offers and transactions involving significant shareholders. In addition, our articles of association provide for a staggered board of directors. Any of these provisions may make it more difficult to acquire us. Accordingly, our acquisition by another entity could be delayed or prevented even if it would be beneficial to our shareholders or adversely affect our stock price. The government programs in which we have participated and the tax benefits we receive require us to satisfy prescribed conditions and may be delayed, terminated or reduced in the future. We have accepted grants from the Chief Scientist that have helped us finance a portion of our research and development expenditures in Israel. In 2008, 2% of our research and development expenses were financed with grants from the Chief Scientist, compared to 3% and 9% of our research and development expenses in 2007 and 2006, respectively. Although we rely on finance provided by the Chief Scientist to a lesser extent than we did a few years ago and we expect this trend to continue, we must continue to satisfy the conditions of the grants. For example, if we fail to comply with the representations and covenants we made to the Chief Scientist concerning our research and development activities in Israel, we could be required to refund the amount of the benefits we have received, adjusted for interest, inflation and penalties. In addition, we are subject to other restrictions with respect to products developed with grants from the Chief Scientist. For example, we are required to make royalty payments to the Chief Scientist based on the revenues we derive from the sale of products, technologies and services developed with the grants. Also, any know-how from the research developed with the grants from the Chief Scientist may not be transferred to third parties without prior approval of the Chief Scientist, and approval is contingent on the recipient agreeing to abide by the provisions of the Encouragement of Industrial Research and Development, 1984 (the “Research Law”), and related regulations. Also, our ability to manufacture products outside Israel without the approval of the Chief Scientist is restricted under Israeli law and we are required to pay increased royalties to the Chief Scientist of up to 300% with respect to any products manufactured outside Israel. Since we conduct all of our manufacturing activities in Israel and intend to continue doing so, we do not expect any increase in the amount of royalties we pay to the Chief Scientist. We are also eligible for certain tax benefits for the first several years in which we generate taxable income from two of our existing capital investment programs that qualify as “Approved Enterprises” and two other programs that qualify as “Privileged Enterprises”, in each case pursuant to the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments. We have not begun generating taxable income from these programs and we do not expect to utilize these tax benefits in the near future. If we fail to comply with the relevant conditions, the tax benefits we eventually receive could be partially or fully canceled. The Government of Israel may also delay, terminate or reduce these tax benefits. These tax benefits may not be available in the future at their current levels, or at all. Future sales of our ordinary shares could depress the market price for our ordinary shares. As of December 31, 2008, we had 28,655,670 ordinary shares outstanding (net of 39,000 shares held in treasury). In addition, as of December 31, 2008, we had 4,441,230 ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of outstanding options, and 1,683,606 additional ordinary shares reserved for issuance pursuant to our stock option plans and employee share purchase plan. If we or our existing shareholders sell a large number of our ordinary shares, the price of our ordinary shares could fall dramatically. If we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company, our U.S. shareholders will be subject to adverse tax consequences. If, for any taxable year, either, (1) 75% or more of our gross income is passive income or (2) 50% or more of the fair market value of our assets, including cash (even if held as working capital), produce or are held to 20-F ClickSoftware Technologies Ltd. Page 15 produce passive income, we may be characterized as a “passive foreign investment company” (“PFIC”) for United States federal income tax purposes. Passive income includes dividends, interest, royalties, rents annuities and the excess of gains over losses from the disposition of assets, which produce passive income. For purposes of the asset test, cash is considered to be an asset that produces passive income. As a result of our cash position and the value of our assets, we may be deemed to be a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If we are characterized as a PFIC, our shareholders who are residents of the United States will be subject to adverse U.S. tax consequences. Our treatment as a PFIC could result in a reduction in the after-tax return to shareholders resident in the United States and may cause a reduction in the value of such shares. If we were to be treated as a PFIC, our shareholders will be required, in certain circumstances, to pay an interest charge together with tax calculated at maximum rates on certain “excess distributions” including any gain on the sale of ordinary shares. In order to avoid this tax consequence, they (1) may be permitted to make a “qualified electing fund” election (however we do not currently intend to take the action necessary for our shareholders to make a “qualified electing fund” election, in which case, in lieu of such treatment they would be required to include in their taxable income certain undistributed amounts of our income) or (2) may elect to mark-to-market the ordinary shares and recognize ordinary income (or possible ordinary loss) each year with respect to such investment and on the sale or other disposition of the ordinary shares. Prospective investors should consult with their own tax advisors with respect to the tax consequences applicable to them of investing in our ordinary shares. Our stock price could be volatile and could decline substantially. The stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, and the market prices of technology companies have been and continue to be particularly highly volatile. The price at which our ordinary shares trade could be volatile and could decline substantially. ITEM 