1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to other information in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating the Company and its business. We may continue to incur substantial losses and negative operating cash flows and may not succeed in achieving or maintaining profitability in the future. We have incurred net losses and negative cash flows since we became an independent company, and as of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $326 million. We anticipate that we will continue to experience negative cash flows and net losses at least through 2009. Our operating losses have been due in part to the commitment of significant resources to our research and development and sales and marketing departments. Although we have made reductions in operating expenses, we expect to continue to devote resources to these areas and, as a result, we will need to increase substantially our quarterly revenues or further decrease our operating expenses to achieve and maintain profitability. We cannot be certain that we will achieve sufficient revenues for profitability. If we do achieve profitability, we cannot be certain that we can sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. Continuous cash outflows can lead to the need for new financing, which may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. -15- Financial markets worldwide are currently in the midst of an unprecedented crisis which has had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on us and our customers and suppliers. The financial crisis has been affecting both debt and equity financial markets, which has substantially limited the amount of financing available to all companies, including ourselves. It is impossible to predict how long this crisis will last or how it will be resolved or the extent of its continuing impact. We intend to delist from the NASDAQ Global Market and deregister our common stock under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 which could negatively affect the liquidity and trading prices of our common stock. On March 31, 2009, the Company announced that it would voluntarily delist its common stock from the NASDAQ Global Market by filing a Form 25 with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 10, 2009. Therefore, effective April 20, 2009, our common stock will be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market. After that date, our common stock will be quoted in the over-the-counter market in the “Pink Sheets,” a centralized electronic quotation service for over-the-counter securities. The Company expects its common stock will continue to trade in the Pink Sheets, so long as market makers demonstrate an interest in trading in the Company’s common stock. The Company will provide its new ticker symbol for trading on the Pink Sheets as soon as it becomes available. The Company can give no assurance that its common stock will continue to be actively traded on the Pink Sheets or on any other quotation medium. Following such delisting, we intend to deregister our common stock under the Exchange Act and become a non-reporting company under the Exchange Act. On or about April 20, 2009, the Company will file with the SEC a Form 15, Notice of Termination of Registration and Suspension of Duty to File, to terminate its reporting obligations under the Exchange Act. When the Form 15 has been filed, our obligation to file reports, and other information under the Exchange Act, such as Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K will be suspended. The deregistration of the Company’s common stock under the Exchange Act will become effective 90 days after the date on which the Form 15 was filed. The Company is eligible to deregister under the Exchange Act because its common stock was held of record by fewer than 300 persons. Delisting and deregistration of the Company's common stock could negatively affect the liquidity and trading prices of our common stock. If we are unable to develop and successfully sell WiMAX certified mobile products in a timely fashion, our business will be materially adversely affected. Certification for mobile WiMAX products based on the 802.16e standard became available in 2008, and carriers began to deploy this standard soon thereafter. If our mobile WiMAX products are not certified, if our products do not operate with the products of other suppliers or if the development of those products is otherwise delayed, there would be a material adverse affect on our business. We would be at a significant disadvantage in the marketplace if we are not able to launch certified mobile WiMAX products. Even if our products are available and certified, we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to sell our products or to develop relationships with system integrators and OEMs in order to sell our products. Any reduction in expenditures by communications service providers could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Our products are sold to telecommunications carriers and service providers. A decline in their capital spending may reduce our sales, increase the need for inventory write-offs and increase our losses and our requirements for additional working capital, which may not be readily available to us. This could result in downward pressure on the price of our products, all of which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and stock price. Further, the number of carriers and service providers that are our potential customers may not grow or may decline as a result of, among other things, the substantial capital requirements needed to establish networks and the limited number of licenses granted in each country. Since our revenues may vary from quarter to quarter and a significant percentage of our expenses are fixed and do not vary with revenues, our quarterly operating results are volatile and difficult to predict, which may negatively affect our stock price. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and will likely vary in the future for a variety of reasons, many of which are outside of our control, including the following: · changes in the mix of our products sold, including the growth of sales of our WiMAX products offset by further declines in sales of our legacy products; · fluctuations in the size and timing of orders, as our customers are not typically required to purchase a specific number of our products in any given quarter; · the budget cycles of our customers and the timing of purchases by our customers and end-users of our products; · the size and timing of major deployments of our products; -16- · delays in shipments or payment due to our customers inability to obtain licenses or for other reasons; · the loss of a major customer; · the adoption of new standards in our industry; · the fulfillment of criteria necessary for us to recognize revenue; · the development of competing technology, products or services, which may cause us to lose customers; · our ability to attract and retain technical and other talent; · the inability of our suppliers or manufacturers to fulfill our orders as a result of a shortage of key components; · mergers or acquisitions by us, our customers or our competitors; · general economic conditions worldwide and in the United States, including the effects of the current global financial crisis; and · some degree of seasonality in which the first calendar quarter generally has lower sales than the final quarter of the preceding year. We incur expenses in significant part based on our expectations of future revenue, and we expect our operating expense, in particular salaries and lease payments, to be relatively fixed in the short run. Accordingly, any decline in revenue for a particular quarter could have an immediate negative effect on results for that quarter, possibly resulting in a change in financial estimates or investment recommendations by securities analysts, which could result in a fall in our stock price. Because of the fluctuations we have experienced in our quarterly results, we do not consider quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations to be necessarily meaningful, and you should not rely on results in any particular quarter or quarters as an indication of future performance. If we are not able to implement a program to reduce product costs over time, introduce new products or increase sales volume to respond to declines in the average selling prices of our products, our gross margin may decline. We expect the average selling prices of our products to decline due to a number of factors, including competitive pricing pressures, rapid technological change, industry standardization and volume sales discounts. Accordingly, to maintain or increase our gross margin, we must develop and introduce new products or product enhancements with higher gross margins and implement product cost reductions. If our average selling prices continue to decline and we are not able to maintain or increase our gross margin, our results of operations could be harmed. In addition, as carriers deploy systems using mobile WiMAX standards, our competitors may offer their products at relatively low prices in an effort to achieve early market acceptance. Accordingly, we may experience downward pricing pressure on our mobile WiMAX products, which would have an adverse affect on our margins. Our operating performance is also dependent on our ability to continue to realize cost savings and drive profitable growth. If these initiatives are not met within the time frame we expect, our cash flow could be impacted. Our suppliers may require us to pay cash in advance or obtain letters of credit as a condition to selling us their products and services. Any of these risks and uncertainties could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flow. If we are unable to compensate for declining sales of obsolescent products with sales of new WiMAX products, our revenues will continue to decline. As certain of our current products become obsolete, growth in sales of our new WiMAX products will be needed to compensate for this decline in revenues. As WiMAX is now regarded as a principal standard for the broadband wireless industry, we are facing the risk of obsolescence of our non-WiMAX products. As a result, we expect our sales to continue to be materially adversely affected until increasing sales of WiMAX products compensate for the decline in sales of non-WiMAX products. While our WiMAX sales have been increasing, those increases have not yet been sufficient to offset the decline in sales of our non-WiMAX products. In the course of committing to research and development, enhancing our existing products and developing the WiMAX product line, we have made projections and assumptions about the potential demand for our various product lines. If our projections or assumptions are incorrect for any reason, and our product lines do not sell as projected, our results of operations will be materially adversely affected. -17- Since we incur most of our operating expenses and a portion of our cost of goods sold in foreign currencies, fluctuations in the values of foreign currencies could have a negative impact on our profitability. Although 91% and 82% of our sales in 2008 and 2007, respectively, were denominated in U.S. dollars, and a majority of our cost of goods sold were denominated in U.S. dollars, we incur a large part of our operating expenses and a portion of our cost of goods in British pounds and New Israeli Shekels. In the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, approximately 24% and 30%, respectively, of our combined operating expenses and cost of goods sold were denominated in British pounds. In the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, approximately 15% and 11%, respectively, of our combined operating expenses and cost of goods sold were denominated in New Israeli Shekels. We expect these percentages to fluctuate over time. Fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies could have a negative impact on the profitability of our global operations and our business and our currency hedging activities may not limit these risks. The value of foreign currency fluctuations against the U.S. dollar may also affect the competitiveness of our pricing compared to local products because we typically bill in U.S. dollars. Rapid technological changes and evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and short product life cycles may adversely affect our results of operations. The markets for our products have been characterized by rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and short product life cycles. Our success depends, in substantial part, on the timely and successful introduction of high quality new products and upgrades, as well as cost reductions on current products to address the operational speed, bandwidth, efficiency and cost requirements of our customers. With the adoption by the wireless broadband industry of the IEEE 802.16 and ETSI HiperMAN wireless MAN standards, our success will also depend on our ability to comply with these and other emerging industry standards and to operate with products of other suppliers. With our WiMAX products, we are focused on delivering IP based operating systems. The development of new, technologically advanced IP-optimized networking solutions and products is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation, as well as the anticipation of technological and market trends. Our commitment to develop and refine our IP based operating systems may result in our expenses growing at a faster rate than our revenues, particularly since the initial investment to bring a new or enhanced product to market may be high. We may not be successful in targeting new market opportunities, in developing and commercializing new products in a timely manner or in achieving market acceptance for our new products. As a result, we may expend research and development and other resources on projections that do not result in significant sales. The success of new or enhanced products depends on a number of other factors, including the timely introduction of those products, market acceptance of new technologies and industry standards, the perceived quality and robustness of new or enhanced products, competing product offerings, the pricing and marketing of our products and the availability of funding for those networks. Products and technologies developed by our competitors or by us may render certain of our products obsolete. If we fail to respond in a timely and effective manner to unanticipated changes in one or more of the technologies affecting telecommunications and data networking or our new products or product enhancements fail to achieve market acceptance, our ability to compete effectively in our industry, and our sales, market share and customer relationships could be materially and adversely affected. The adoption of open standards in the broadband wireless communications industry has resulted in increased competition. With the adoption of WiMAX as the new industry standard for Broadband Wireless Access (“BWA”) and the setting of standards by the WiMAX Forum®, our focus is increasingly on selling WiMAX products, and on introducing mobile WiMAX products, that are WiMAX Forum® certified or that meet WiMAX standards. We anticipate that other BWA equipment suppliers will also increasingly sell products that are WiMAX Forum® certified or that meet WiMAX standards. As we bring WiMAX-based systems to market, we may face increased competition from a number of other manufacturers who are no longer restricted by our intellectual property rights from building competing products. To remain competitive, we believe we must continue to invest significant resources in research and development, sales and marketing and customer support for WiMAX. We cannot be certain that we will have sufficient resources to make these investments or that we will be able to make the technological advances necessary to remain competitive. In developing products that conform to WiMAX Forum® standards, we recognize that, by diminishing product differentiation, standardization may lower the barriers to entry by other manufacturers in the markets in which we seek to sell our products. If companies with greater resources than us manufacture any standards-based products to compete with us, their relative size, resources, marketing skills and financial incentives may prove to be more important to customers than product differentiation alone. Standardization is also likely to result in lower average selling prices. If we are unable to maintain our position as a technology leader in this market of open standards and broader competition, we may suffer reductions in revenues and margins and loss of market share, revenues and operating margins. -18- If we are not able to implement a program to conform our products to industry standards, our revenues may decline. We have developed and continue to develop certain of our products in accordance with existing, emerging and anticipated wireless-industry standards. In particular, we developed our WiMAX wireless products and product features to conform to IEEE 802.16-2004 and IEEE 802.16e standards. If our products fail to comply with these standards, we may not be able to sell them. Industry standards are subject to change from time to time by their regulatory bodies. In addition, our competitors may attempt to influence the adoption of standards that are not compatible with our products, and we may not have the resources or ability to influence such adoption ourselves. If, as a result of any changes, the products we have developed fail to meet or are delayed in meeting then-applicable industry standards, we may not be able to sell such products. Our future success also depends in part on the acceptance by our customers of products that meet these industry standards. If the WiMAX Forum® does not adopt these standards or if our customers are unable to successfully deploy products based on these standards, we will not be successful selling these products. In addition, potential customers may delay orders in anticipation of the introduction of new products that are designed to comply with anticipated future standards. Competition from larger, better-capitalized or emerging competitors could result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of or diminished growth of market share. We compete in a relatively new, rapidly evolving, highly competitive and fragmented market. We now compete with companies that are producing both mobile and fixed wireless communications systems, wired DSL, cable networks, fiber optic cable, certain satellite technologies and other new entrants to this industry, as well as traditional communications companies. The recent adoption of WiMAX standards and the expected increased capital spending on WiMAX applications is likely to result in new competitors entering the markets in which we sell our products. Competitors vary in size and resources and in products and services offered. With respect to the broadband fixed wireless solutions we offer today, we believe we compete directly with Alcatel-Lucent, Alvarion, Aperto Networks, Cisco Networks, Huawei, Motorola, Nokia Siemens, Redline Communications and ZTE Corporation, and with a number of smaller privately-held companies. In addition, some of the entities to which we currently sell our products may develop the capacity to manufacture their own products. Many of our competitors are substantially larger than we are and have significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, technical, manufacturing and other resources as well as more established distribution channels and greater name recognition. These competitors may be able to respond more rapidly to new or emerging technologies such as mobile WiMAX and changes in customer requirements than we can and can devote greater resources to attempting to influence the composition of future WiMAX standards. They may also be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and financing of their products than we can. Furthermore, some of our competitors have made or may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase their ability to gain customer market share rapidly. These competitors may enter our existing or future markets with systems that may be less expensive, provide higher performance or contain additional features. In addition, large customers are sometimes reluctant to base an important line of business on equipment purchased from a smaller vendor such as us. In addition, both larger and smaller communications service providers may also decide to wait to see how a new technology develops before committing any significant resources to deploying equipment from a particular supplier. We believe this tendency to “wait and see” with respect to new technology is already affecting the market place, resulting in increased customer caution on WiMAX purchases. We expect our competitors to continue to improve the performance of their current products and to introduce new products or new technologies that may supplant or provide lower-cost alternatives to our systems. This and other factors could result in lower revenues or a loss of market share, which could cause our stock price to fall. An inability to overcome competition from alternative communication systems could adversely affect our results of operations. We already face, and may increasingly encounter, competition from competing wireless technologies, such as cellular technology, that are constantly improving. Cellular networks are now capable of delivering both voice and broadband data connectivity to fixed, mobile, nomadic and portable applications. These technologies, such as 1XRTT and EVDO, have the ability to provide for multiple voice channels and rate data services at transmission rates of 512 Kbps on the uplink and 2.4 Mbps on the down link. Their data rates speeds continue to improve as they are modified. In addition, our technology competes with other high-speed solutions, such as wired DSL, cable networks, fiber optic cable and occasionally satellite technologies. Our products compete with alternative communications systems on the basis of reliability, price and functionality. For example, the performance and coverage area of our wireless systems are dependent on certain factors that are outside of our control, including features of the environment in which the systems are deployed, such as the amount of clutter (natural terrain features and man-made obstructions) and the radio frequency available. Depending on specific customer needs, these obstacles may make our technology less competitive in comparison with other technologies and make other technologies less expensive or more suitable. Our business may also compete in the future with products and services based on other wireless technologies, including LTE (Third Generation Partnership Project: Long Term Evolution) an OFDM cellular technology, and other technologies that have yet to be developed. -19- We currently depend on a few key customers for a substantial percentage of our sales. A loss of one or more of those customers could cause a significant decrease in our net revenue. We currently derive, and expect to continue to derive, a substantial percentage of our net sales from fewer than ten customers. In 2008, approximately 55% of our revenues were derived from our top ten customers, including approximately 15% of our revenues from Axtel. Axtel was the only customer that individually accounted for 10% or more of our 2008 annual revenue. In fiscal 2009, we expect lower revenue from Axtel. We believe that there are certain economies of scale inherent in our business. Accordingly, if we are unable to replace the revenue previously generated by Axtel and other significant customers, our gross profit margins, profitability and efforts to preserve cash resources could be negatively affected. The amount of revenue we derive from a specific customer is likely to vary from period to period, and a major customer in one period may not produce significant additional revenue in a subsequent period. We anticipate that our operating results will continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of key customers in the foreseeable future. In general, our contracts with our larger customers often involve major deployments that require several months to fulfill, so our results may depend on the same major customers for consecutive quarters. We cannot assure you that, once a contract is fulfilled, the customer will purchase new products or services from us. We must, therefore, continually seek new customers in order to increase our revenue, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in doing so. Many of our customers execute short-term purchase orders or contracts that allow our customers to terminate the agreement without significant penalties. Our contracts and purchase orders are separately negotiated with each of our customers and the terms vary widely. A majority of our customers execute only short-term purchase orders for a single system or a small number of systems at one time instead of long-term contracts for large-scale deployment of our systems. These contracts and purchase orders do not ensure that our customers will purchase any additional products beyond those specifically listed in the order. Moreover, since we often believe that these purchase orders may represent the early portion of longer-term customer programs, we often expend significant financial, personnel and operational resources to fulfill these orders. If our customers fail to purchase additional products to fulfill their programs, we may be unable to recover the costs we incur and our margins could suffer. In addition, our typical contracts are generally non-exclusive and contain provisions allowing our customers to terminate the agreement without significant penalties. Our contracts also may require certain shipment, delivery and installation commitments on our part. If we fail to meet these commitments, our customer contracts typically permit the customer to terminate the contract or impose monetary penalties on us. Changes in telecommunications regulation or delays in receiving licenses could adversely affect many of our customers and may lead to lower sales. Many of our customers are subject to extensive regulation as communications service providers, including with respect to the availability of radio frequencies for two-way broadband communications. Each country has different regulations and regulatory processes for wireless communications equipment and for the uses of radio frequencies. Some of our products operate in license-exempt bands, while others operate in licensed bands in different jurisdictions. In addition, changes in laws or regulations that adversely affect existing and potential customers could lead them to delay, reduce or cancel expenditures on communications access systems, which actions would harm our business. In the past, anticipated customer orders have been postponed because of regulatory issues in various countries. The resolution of those issues can be lengthy and the outcome can be unpredictable. Some of the orders we receive from customers are contingent upon their receipt of licenses from regulators, the timing of which can often be uncertain. Depending on the jurisdiction, the receipt of licenses by our customers may occur, if at all, a year or more after they initially seek those licenses. -20- At present there are few laws or regulations that specifically address our business of providing communications access equipment. However, future regulation may include access or settlement charges or tariffs that could impose economic burdens on our customers and us. We are unable to predict the impact, if any, that future legislation, judicial decisions or regulations in the countries in which we do business will have on our business. Our sales cycle is typically long and unpredictable, making it difficult to accurately predict inventory requirements, forecast revenues and control expenses. Our sales cycle can range from one month to two years and varies by customer. The length of the sales cycle with a particular customer may be influenced by a number of factors, including the commitment of significant cash and other resources associated with the purchase, lengthy testing and evaluations, and regulatory and licensing requirements on the part of the customer. In addition, the emerging and evolving nature of the communication access market may cause prospective customers to delay their purchase decisions as they evaluate new and/or competing technologies, or wait for new products or technologies to come to market. We expect that our sales cycles will continue to be long and unpredictable, and, as the average order size for our products increases, our customers’ processes for approving purchases may become more complex and lead to an even longer sales cycle. For example, we have found that the length of our sales cycle has increased as an increasing percentage of our revenues comes from WiMAX products. Accordingly, it is difficult for us to anticipate the quarter in which particular sales may occur, to determine product shipment schedules and to provide our manufacturers and suppliers with accurate lead-time to ensure that they have sufficient inventory on hand to meet our orders. Therefore, our sales cycle impairs our ability to recognize and forecast revenues and control expenses. In addition, particularly with our WiMAX products, we may enter into contracts that involve multiple deliveries of different elements over more than one quarter. The requirements in these contracts can affect the timing of revenue recognition under generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). These requirements may include customer acceptance, guarantees of coverage, guarantees of certification or delivery of products not yet available. GAAP may preclude us from recognizing revenue under such contracts until these requirements have been met. We make estimates relating to customer demand and errors in our estimates may have negative effects on our inventory levels, revenues and results of operations. We have historically been required to place firm orders or binding forecasts for products and components with our suppliers to ensure that we are able to meet our customers’ demands. These commitments to our suppliers may be placed up to six months prior to the anticipated delivery date based on our existing customer purchase commitments and our forecasts of future customer demand. Our sales process requires us to make multiple forecast assumptions relating to expected customer demand, each of which may introduce error into our estimates, causing excess inventory to accumulate or a lack of product supply when needed. If we overestimate customer demand, we may allocate resources to manufacturing products that we may not be able to sell when we expect or at all. As a result, we have sometimes had excess inventory, which has increased our net losses. For example, in the second quarter of 2007 we recorded an inventory write down of $5.9 million as a result of reduced demand for our non-WiMAX revenues. Conversely, if we underestimate customer demand or if insufficient manufacturing capacity were available, we may lose revenue opportunities and market share and may damage our customer relationships. Our international sales may be difficult and costly as a result of the political, economic and regulatory risks in those regions. Sales to customers based outside the United States have historically accounted for a substantial majority of our revenues. In the year ended 2008 and 2007, our international sales (sales to customers located outside the United States which includes a small percentage of United States customers where the final destination of the equipment is outside of the U.S.) accounted for approximately 82% and 91%, respectively, of our total revenue. In 2008, 45% of our revenue was derived from customers in North and South America, 44% from customers in Europe, Africa and the Middle East, with Asia accounting for 11% of revenues. In many international markets, long-standing relationships between potential customers and their local suppliers and protective regulations, including local content requirements and type approvals, create barriers to entry. In addition, pursuing international opportunities may require significant investments for an extended period before returns on such investments, if any, are realized and such investments may result in expenses growing at a faster rate than revenues. The following risks inherent in international business could reduce the international demand for our products, decrease the prices at which we can sell our products internationally or disrupt our international operations, which could adversely affect our operations: · the imposition of tariffs, duties, price controls or other restrictions on foreign currencies or trade barriers imposed by foreign countries; · import or export controls, including licensing or product-certification requirements; -21- · unexpected changes in government policies or regulatory requirements in the United States or in foreign governments and delays in receiving licenses to operate; · political instability and acts of war or terrorism; · economic instability, including the impact of economic recessions; · difficulty in staffing and managing geographically diverse operations, including our reluctance to staff and manage foreign operations as a result of political unrest even though we have business opportunities in a country; · any limitation on our ability to enforce intellectual property rights or agreements in regions where the judicial legal systems may be less developed or less protective of intellectual property or contractual rights; · capital and exchange control programs; · challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences; · fluctuations in currency exchange rates; · labor unrest; · restrictions on the repatriation of cash; · the nationalization of local industry; and · potentially adverse tax consequences. We may not be able to establish or expand our relationships with major system integrators and telecommunications equipment OEMs, which would harm our ability to generate revenue. We believe that our future success, particularly with respect to WiMAX, will increasingly depend upon our ability to establish and expand our relationships with major system integrators and telecommunications equipment OEMs. Some of our products are sold to and through system integrators for integration into their systems, rather than directly to carriers. As a result, the level of our sales depends on the success, quality and market acceptance of the products of these system integrators and OEMs, as well as their sales and marketing efforts, all of which are not within our control. Adverse events affecting these system integrators and OEMs, such as financial difficulties or technical problems with their products could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, the termination of any existing or future relationships with systems integrators or OEMs could result in our selling fewer products. Furthermore, systems integrators and OEMs may choose to integrate, market and sell the products of our competitors or to use competing technologies instead of or in addition to our products. If we are not able to establish and expand relationships with system integrators and OEMs to market and sell our products over competing products and technologies, there may be a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue. Our operations in Israel may be disrupted by political and military tensions in Israel and the Middle East. We conduct various activities related to our WipLL, WiMAX and AS.TONE products in Israel, including research and development; design; raw material procurement; and manufacturing through manufacturing subcontractors based in Israel. Our operations could be negatively affected by the political and military tensions in Israel and the Middle East. Israel has been involved in a number of armed conflicts with its neighbors since 1948 and a state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems in Israel. Since September 2000, a continuous armed conflict with the Palestinian Authority has been taking place. Conditions in Israel could, in the future, disrupt the development, manufacture and/or distribution of our products. Our dependence on key suppliers may result in product delivery delays if they do not have components in stock or terminate their arrangements with us. Some of the key components of our products are purchased from single vendors, including printed circuit board assemblies, application specific integrated circuits, radio frequency filters and power amplifiers, for which alternative sources are generally not readily available in the short to medium term. If our vendors fail to supply us with components because they fail to remain in business, fail to meet our quality or production requirements, do not have the components in stock when we need them, or if the supply of the components in the market is limited, or if our vendors reduce or eliminate their manufacturing capacity for these components or enter into exclusive relationships with other parties which prevent them from selling to us, we could experience significant delays in shipping our products while we seek other supply sources. Delays in shipping could result in our customers claiming damages, increased costs, and damage to our reputation and loss of future business. At times we have been forced to purchase components from distributors instead of from manufacturers, which has significantly increased our costs. During the second quarter of 2007, as a result of a temporary shortage of a component, we had difficulty manufacturing enough WiMAX products to meet certain existing orders in a timely manner. We do not have long-term contracts with all of our suppliers. Instead, we execute purchase orders approximately three to six months in advance of when we believe we may need the components. In those instances in which we do not have a long-term contract with a supplier, the supplier may terminate our relationship upon six months’ prior notice. In addition, we may not be able to replace, or may experience increased costs if we are required to replace, an existing supplier. -22- Our dependence on contract manufacturers may result in a material adverse effect on our business if they are unable to fill our orders on a timely basis or if they terminate their non-exclusive agreements with us. We generally outsource the manufacturing of our products to subcontractors. These contract manufacturers have limited manufacturing capacity, and we cannot be sure that they will at all times have the capacity that we require to fill our customers’ orders. In addition, our reliance on contract manufacturers subjects us to a number of other risks, including risks related to limited control of delivery schedules, manufacturing yields and production costs, and quality assurance and control. Our contracts with our major manufacturing subcontractors are non-exclusive and most contracts may be terminated with six months notice by either party without significant penalty. The process of replacing any of our contract manufacturers would likely take at least six months, and any related delay could cause a material interruption in our ability to deliver products to our customers. We rely on our forecasts of future orders to make purchasing and manufacturing decisions and provide our contract manufacturers with orders well in advance of the time that we expect to sell those products. If a forecast turns out to be inaccurate, it may lead either to excess inventory that would increase our costs or a shortage of components that would delay shipments of our systems. If we lose Eric Stonestrom, our President and Chief Executive Officer, or any of our other executive officers, we may encounter difficulty replacing their expertise, which could impair our ability to implement our business plan successfully. We believe that our ability to implement our business strategy and our future success depends on the continued employment of our senior management team, in particular our president and chief executive officer, Eric Stonestrom. Our senior management team, who have extensive experience in our industry and are vital to maintaining some of our major customer relationships, may be difficult to replace. The loss of the technical knowledge and management and industry expertise of these key employees could make it difficult for us to execute our business plan effectively, could result in delays in new products being developed, could result in lost customers and could cause a diversion of resources while we seek replacements. We may not have adequate protection for our intellectual property, which may make it easier for others to misappropriate our technology and enable our competitors to sell competing products at lower prices and harm our business. Our success has historically relied in part on proprietary technology. We have used a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and contractual restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights associated with our products other than our WiMAX products. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation of our technology, and we may not be able to detect unauthorized use or take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. The laws of some foreign countries, particularly in Asia, do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States and the United Kingdom, and we may encounter substantial infringement problems in those countries. In addition, we do not file for patent protection in every country where we conduct business. In some countries where we do file for patent protection, we may choose not to maintain patent protection. In addition, we may not file for or maintain patent protection in a country from which we derive significant revenue. In instances where we have licensed intellectual property from third parties, we may have limited rights to institute actions against third parties for infringement of the licensed intellectual property or to defend any suit that challenges the validity of the licensed intellectual property. If we fail to protect adequately our intellectual property rights, or fail to do so under applicable law, it would be easier for our competitors to copy our products and sell competing products at lower prices, which would harm our business. -23- Our products may infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may result in lawsuits that could be costly to defend and prohibit us from selling our products. Third parties could assert exclusive patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property infringement claims against us, our products or the technologies that are important to us. If any inquiry from a third party relating to patents, copyrights or trademarks leads to a proceeding against us and we are unable to defend ourselves successfully, our ability to sell our products may be adversely affected and our business would be harmed. In addition, third parties may assert claims, or initiate litigation against us or our manufacturers, suppliers or customers with respect to existing or future products, trademarks or other proprietary rights. Any claims against us, or customers that we indemnify against intellectual property claims, with or without merit, may: · be time-consuming, costly to defend and harm our reputation; · divert management’s attention and resources; · cause delays in the delivery of our products; · require the payment of monetary damages; · result in an injunction, which would prohibit us from using these technologies and require us to stop shipping our systems until they could be redesigned, if possible; and · require us to enter into license or royalty agreements, which may not be available on acceptable terms or require payment of substantial sums. The status of intellectual property directed to or covering WiMAX technology is currently unclear and developing. It is difficult to determine what parties, if any, hold patents or other rights with respect to intellectual property that is used in WiMAX products, including ours. In addition, Mobile WiMAX technology is a new technology with greater uncertainty regarding the status of relevant intellectual property and could involve greater patent licensing issues and more potential for intellectual property disputes than fixed WiMAX technology. A September 2006 patent survey commissioned by the WiMAX Forum® suggests that there are more than 1,550 existing patents that may be deemed to cover some portion of WiMAX technology. We believe that the number of patents that may be deemed to cover WiMAX technology is increasing. We cannot be certain that holders of some of these patents or other patent holders will not assert claims against us in the future, including claims relating to mobile WiMAX products. From time to time, we have received, and expect to continue to receive, correspondence from various other parties offering licenses to patents or providing notice of claims of infringement, misappropriation or misuse of other parties’ proprietary rights. Some of these claims may lead to litigation. For example, we and other WiMAX manufacturers have received letters/communications from Wi-LAN Inc. (“Wi-LAN”) offering licenses of various Wi-LAN patents and contending that products complying with 802.11 and 802.16 standards are covered by certain patents allegedly owned by Wi-LAN. We, in consultation with our patent counsel, have been reviewing Wi-LAN’s allegations and have had extensive correspondence with Wi-LAN regarding those allegations. Wi-LAN continues to allege that its patents cover certain of the Company’s products, and has offered to negotiate a license with the Company with respect to the patents in question. Even if we were to prevail in any litigation related to this matter, the associated costs could deplete our financial resources, and our management’s attention and resources could be diverted. Alternatively, as is discussed above, we may be required to seek a license to use certain technology from Wi-LAN. We cannot be certain that Wi-LAN would provide such a license or, if it did, what the economic or other terms of the license would be. Such a license could require us to make significant payments with respect to past and/or future sales of our products, and such payments might significantly reduce the margins on sales of our products. The Company is in discussions with Wi-LAN regarding a possible resolution of this matter. However, there can be no assurance as to the ultimate outcome of this matter. A material defect in our products that either delays the commencement of services or affects customer networks could seriously harm our credibility and our business, and we may not have sufficient insurance to cover any potential liability. Fixed wireless devices are highly complex and frequently contain undetected software or hardware errors when first introduced or as new versions are released. We have detected and are likely to continue to detect errors and product defects in connection with new product releases and product upgrades. In the past, some of our products have contained defects that delayed the commencement of service by our customers. If our hardware or software contains undetected errors, we could experience: · delayed or lost revenues and reduced market share due to adverse customer reactions; · higher warranty costs and other costs and expenses due to the need to provide additional products and services to a customer at a reduced charge or at no charge; · claims for substantial damages against us, regardless of our responsibility for any failure, which may lead to increased insurance costs; · diversion of research and development resources to fix errors in the field; -24- · negative publicity regarding us and our products, which could adversely affect our ability to attract new customers; · increased insurance costs; and · diversion of management and development time and resources. Our general liability insurance coverage may not continue to be available on reasonable terms or in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims or our insurer may disclaim coverage as to any future claim. In addition, our products are often integrated with other network components. Incompatibilities between our products and these components could result in material harm to the service provider or its subscribers. These problems could adversely affect our cash position or our reputation and competitive position. We have made, and may, subject to adequate financial resources, continue to make, strategic acquisitions or enter into joint ventures. If we are not successful in operating or integrating these acquisitions or joint ventures, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. In the past, we have acquired companies that we believed would enhance the expansion of our business and products, and we may, subject to adequate financial resources, do so in the future. Acquisitions involve significant risks and uncertainties, including: · the industry may develop in a different direction than anticipated and the technologies we acquire may not prove to be those we need; · the future valuations of acquired businesses may decrease from the market price we paid for these acquisitions; · the revenues of acquired businesses may not offset increased operating expenses associated with these acquisitions; · potential difficulties in integrating new products, personnel, technology, software, businesses and operations in an efficient and effective manner; · significant write-offs; · our customers or customers of the acquired businesses may defer purchase decisions as they evaluate the impact of the acquisitions on our future product strategy; · potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses; · diversion of the attention of our senior management from the operation of our daily business; · entering new markets in which we have limited experience and where competitors may have a stronger market presence; · the potential adverse effect on our cash position as a result of all or a portion of an acquisition purchase price being paid in cash; · potential issuance of securities that are superior to the rights of holders of our common stock, or that would dilute our stockholders’ percentage ownership; · potential assumption and/or incurrence of liabilities and the increased risk of costly and time-consuming litigation, including stockholder lawsuits; and · the potential assumption of significant amounts of debt. Our inability to successfully operate and integrate newly acquired businesses in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our ability to take advantage of further growth in demand for IP-optimized network solutions, if any, and other advances in technologies and ultimately our results of operations and/or financial condition. Acquisitions are inherently risky, and no assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. Our use of the credit facility from Silicon Valley Bank presents certain risks. Effective March 25, 2009, we and our wholly-owned subsidiary, Airspan Communications Limited, entered into an amendment and restatement of our August 1, 2006 Loan and Security Agreement, as amended (as so amended and restated, the “Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement”) with Silicon Valley Bank (“SVB”), with respect to a revolving credit line. See the “Liquidity and Capital Resources” section of ITEM 7 for further details. -25- We are currently drawing on the credit line, and we expect to continue to use it in 2009. Although we believe the credit facility will increase our financial resources and financial flexibility, our use of the credit facility does present certain risks. Our ability to borrow under the credit facility is a function of, among other things, our base of eligible accounts receivable and inventory and the rate at which advances are made against eligible receivables and inventory (the “Advance Rate”). If the amount or quality of our accounts receivable or inventory deteriorates or the Advance Rate or eligibility criteria are adjusted adversely by SVB, our ability to borrow under the credit facility will be directly, negatively affected. If there is an adverse adjustment in the Borrowing Base at a time when we are unable to, within three business days, repay SVB the amount by which the Borrowing Base has been decreased, we will likely be in default under the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement. In addition, the credit facility requires us to satisfy certain financial covenants, including the maintenance of a minimum Tangible Net Worth and a minimum Adjusted Quick Ratio (as defined in the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement). As of December 31, 2008, the minimum tangible net worth requirement under our agreement with SVB was $30 million and the Company’s actual tangible net worth was $25.8 million. As such, the Company was not in compliance with the tangible net worth covenant at December 31, 2008. This default has been waived effective March 25, 2009 pursuant to the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement. The amended required minimum tangible net worth at March 31, 2009 is $18.0 million, June 30, 2009 is $14.0 million, September 30, 2009 is $13.0 million and December 31, 2009, and thereafter $12.0 million, subject to certain adjustments based on positive earnings and equity issuances. In addition, the Company is required to maintain an Adjusted Quick Ratio (quick assets to current liabilities minus deferred revenue and Israeli severance liability) of at least 1.00 to 1.00 as of the last day of each month. There is no assurance the Company will be able to meet these covenants in future quarters as required by the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement. In the event the Company is unable to meet these tests in the future, we would plan to seek an amendment or waiver of the covenants. There can be no assurance that any such waiver or amendment would be granted. In such event, we may be required to repay any or all of our existing borrowings and we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to borrow under the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement at a time when we most need money to fund working capital or other needs. The credit facility also contains various provisions that restrict our use of cash and operating flexibility. These provisions could have important consequences for us, including (i) causing us to use a portion of our cash flow from operations for debt repayment and/or service rather than other perceived needs, (ii) precluding us from incurring additional debt financing for future working capital or capital expenditures and (iii) impacting our ability to take advantage of significant, perceived business opportunities, such as acquisition opportunities or to react to market conditions. Our failure to meet financial and other covenants could give rise to a default under the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement. In the event of an uncured default, the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement provides that all amounts owed to SVB are immediately due and payable and that SVB has the right to enforce its security interest in our assets. The holders of our Series B preferred stock are entitled to a liquidation preference of $290.00 per share of Series B preferred stock on any liquidation or sale of our Company before holders of our common stock receive any cash or other distribution (in such a liquidation or sale). There are currently outstanding 200,690 shares of our Series B preferred stock. The holders of our Series B preferred stock are entitled to a liquidation preference of $290.00 per share of Series B preferred stock on voluntary or involuntary liquidation of our Company before any payment of cash or distribution of other property may be made to the holders of our common stock, or any other class or series of stock subordinate in liquidation preference to the Series B preferred stock. However, if the holders of the Series B preferred stock would receive a greater return in a liquidation by converting their shares of Series B preferred stock into common stock, then the Series B preferred stock will be deemed to be automatically converted into common stock immediately before the effectiveness of the liquidation. For this purpose a “liquidation” is deemed to include the following transactions unless our stockholders approve a proposal that such transaction shall not be treated as a liquidation: (i) any liquidation, dissolution, or winding-up of our affairs, or (ii) unless, at our request, the holders of at least a majority of the Series B preferred stock then outstanding determine otherwise, (a) the merger, reorganization or consolidation of us into or with another entity, unless, as a result of such transaction the holders of our outstanding securities immediately preceding such merger, reorganization or consolidation own (in approximately the same proportions, relative to each other, as immediately before such transaction) at least a majority of the voting securities of the surviving or resulting entity or the direct or indirect parent of such entity, (b) the sale, transfer or lease of all or substantially all of our assets, (c) the sale, transfer or lease (but not including a transfer or lease by pledge or mortgage to a bona fide lender), of all or substantially all the assets of any of our subsidiaries the assets of which constitute all or substantially all of our assets and the assets of such subsidiaries, taken as a whole, or the liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of such of our subsidiaries the assets of which constitute all or substantially all of our assets and the assets of such subsidiaries taken as a whole, or (d) any transaction or series of related transactions in which securities of the Company representing 50% or more of the combined voting power of the Company’s then outstanding voting securities are acquired by any person, entity or group. -26- Therefore, upon any liquidation of our Company, certain mergers, reorganizations and/or consolidations of us into or with another corporation, the sale by us of all or substantially all of our assets or any transaction or series of related transactions in which a person, entity or group acquires 50% or more of the combined voting power of our then-outstanding securities, the holders of the Series B preferred stock will have a claim against our assets senior to the claim of the holders of common stock in an amount equal to $290.00 per share of Series B preferred stock (as appropriately adjusted for any combinations, divisions, or similar recapitalizations affecting the Series B preferred stock after issuance). For example, if we were to be acquired in a merger, acquisition, consolidation or sale of assets, the holders of the Series B preferred stock would be entitled to receive $290.00 per share of Series B preferred stock in the acquisition transaction unless they (i) determined to convert their shares into common stock or (ii) the Series B stockholders approve a proposal that the acquisition transaction not be treated as a liquidation. There are currently 200,690 shares of Series B preferred stock outstanding. As a result, the holders of the Series B preferred stock would be entitled to receive $58.2 million before the holders of common stock receive any amounts in such a transaction (assuming no conversion of Series B preferred stock prior to the transaction). This could result in the holders of the Series B preferred stock receiving substantially more, on a common share equivalent basis, than holders of our common stock in such a transaction. We have a significant stockholder whose interests may conflict with our other stockholders. As of the date of this report, it is our understanding that Oak Investment Partners XI, Limited Partnership (“Oak”) owns all of the outstanding shares of our Series B preferred stock. Based upon our capitalization as of December 31, 2008, the shares of Series B preferred stock are initially convertible into a total of approximately 27% of our common stock (without giving effect to the exercise or conversion of any other outstanding options, warrants or convertible securities) and represent approximately 23% of the voting power outstanding. Because Oak has the ability to own a significant percentage of our voting power, it may have considerable influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors and approval of mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, for as long as Oak is the holder of at least a majority of the issued and outstanding shares of Series B preferred stock and the number of shares of common stock into which the then outstanding shares of Series B preferred stock are convertible represents at least 15% of the total issued and outstanding shares of our common stock, Oak will be entitled to elect one member of our Board of Directors. Mr. Bandel L. Carano, one of our directors, has been designated by Oak as Oak’s appointee to the Board. So long as the Series B preferred stock is outstanding, we have agreed to refrain from taking certain actions without the approval of the holders of a majority of the then outstanding Series B preferred stock voting separately as a class. The rights and privileges of the Series B preferred stock may have an effect on our conduct of operations, financing or investing. In addition, upon any liquidation of us, certain mergers, reorganizations and/or consolidations of us into or with another corporation, the sale by us of all or substantially all of our assets or any transaction or series of related transactions in which a person, entity or group acquires 50% or more of the combined voting power of our then outstanding securities, the holders of the Series B preferred stock will have a claim against our assets senior to the claim of the holders of common stock in an amount equal to $290.00 per share of Series B preferred stock (as appropriately adjusted for any combinations, divisions, or similar recapitalizations affecting the Series B preferred stock after issuance). We may need additional capital in future periods and our ability to access capital on acceptable terms could decrease significantly and may adversely affect our results of operations and/or business prospects. We recognize that our need for capital in future periods may increase due to a variety of factors, estimates and assumptions. If our projected demand for capital materially increases and our then current and/or projected cash resources have not increased a comparable amount, we may need to modify our existing business plan or seek new capital which may be available only on terms that may not be acceptable to the Company, especially in light of current adverse economic conditions. If we are compelled to adopt measures to conserve cash resources due to the lack of availability of capital, such measures may adversely affect our results of operations and the short-term and/or long-term prospects for our business. -27- Current adverse economic conditions could negatively impact our business. Our operations are affected by local, national and worldwide economic conditions, including, but not limited to, perceived and actual economic conditions, recessions, deflation, exchange rates, interest rates, taxation policies and the availability of credit. The consequences of a prolonged recession may include a lower level of economic activity and uncertainty regarding capital and commodity markets. A lower level of economic activity may adversely affect our revenues and future growth, as well as the future growth of the WiMAX market upon which our business is substantially dependent. In addition, deflation resulting in a decline of prices could reduce our revenues. The current instability in the financial markets, as a result of recession or otherwise, may also affect the cost of capital and our ability to raise capital. Current economic conditions may be exacerbated by insufficient financial sector liquidity which may impact our customers’ ability to pay timely for our products, increase customer bankruptcies and may lead to increased bad debts. In addition, our suppliers (including our key suppliers) could experience credit or other financial difficulties that could result in delays in their ability to supply us with necessary goods and services. There can be no assurance that the current economic slowdown or further deterioration of economic conditions in the United States as well as internationally will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 