ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to other information in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating the Company and its business. If we continue to incur substantial losses and negative operating cash flows, we may not succeed in achieving or maintaining profitability in the future. We have incurred net losses and negative cash flows since we became an independent company, and as of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $241.0 million. We anticipate that we will continue to experience negative cash flows over the next 12 months. Our operating losses have been due in part to the commitment of significant resources to our research and development and sales and marketing organizations. We expect to continue to devote resources to these areas and, as a result, we will need to continue increasing our quarterly revenues to achieve and maintain profitability. We cannot be certain that we will achieve sufficient revenues for profitability. If we do achieve profitability, we cannot be certain that we can sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. Continuous cash outflows can lead to the need for new financing, which may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. Any reduction in expenditures by communications service providers could have a negative impact on our results of operations. We believe telecommunications carriers and service providers continue to spend less annually on capital investments and network expansions than they did at the end of the prior decade. Service providers have operated at reduced capital spending levels for a number of years, and there is no indication that they will increase spending to earlier levels in the foreseeable future. Any further decline in their capital spending may reduce our sales, increase the need for inventory write-offs and could result in downward pressure on the price of our products, all of which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and stock price. Since a significant percentage of our expenses are fixed and do not vary with revenues, our quarterly operating results are volatile and difficult to predict, and our stock price could decline. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful. Since our customers are not typically required to purchase a specific number of our products in any given quarter, we may not be able to accurately forecast our quarterly revenues. Revenues are further affected if major deployments of our products do not occur in any particular quarter as we anticipate and/or our customers delay shipments or payments due to their inability to obtain licenses or for other reasons. As a result, our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and will likely vary in the future. This could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Other factors that may affect our quarterly operating results and our stock price include the loss of a major customer, our ability to react quickly to new competing technologies, products and services which may cause us to lose our customers, or if our suppliers and manufacturers are not able to fulfill our orders as a result of a shortage of key components that leads to a delay in shipping our products. We incur expenses in significant part based on our expectations of future revenue, and we expect our operating expense, in particular salaries and lease payments, to be relatively fixed in the short run. Accordingly, any decline in revenue for a particular quarter could have an immediate negative effect on results for that quarter, possibly resulting in a change in financial estimates or investment recommendations by securities analysts, which could result in a fall in our stock price. The results of any one quarter should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. If we are not able to implement a program to reduce product costs over time, introduce new products or increase sales volume to respond to declines in the average selling prices of our products, our gross margin may decline. We expect the average selling prices of our products to decline due to a number of factors, including competitive pricing pressures, rapid technological change, industry standardization and volume sales discounts. Accordingly, to maintain or increase our gross margin, we must develop and introduce new products or product enhancements with higher gross margins and implement product cost reductions. If our average selling prices continue to decline and we are not able to maintain or increase our gross margin, our results of operations could be harmed. Our industry is subject to change as a result of emerging new technologies and industry standards. The market for BWA equipment has historically been characterized by rapid technological developments and evolving industry standards. Our future success will therefore depend on our ability to adapt to these new standards and to successfully introduce new technologies that meet customer preferences. Accordingly, our success selling certain types of BWA equipment in one year should not be considered indicative of our future sales efforts. Although we have been marketing BWA equipment for many years, our experience marketing and supplying WiMAX equipment has only been developed since August 2005. Although our AS.MAX products have performed to date in accordance with our expectations, the AS.MAX products are still relatively new products and their future commercial success is not yet certain. Some of our competitors have developed and are currently marketing WiMAX equipment. Although we believe our AS.MAX products compare favorably to the existing competitive products in terms of price, performance, features and ease of use, we do not have enough information at this time to determine if our potential customers will share our perceptions. 20 If WiMAX becomes or is regarded as likely to become a principal standard for the BWA industry, we face the risk that our non-WiMAX products will become obsolete. In such event, we anticipate that our results of operations would be materially adversely affected unless increasing sales of AS.MAX products compensate for the decline in sales of non-WiMAX products. For example, sales of our proprietary products declined significantly in 2006 and are expected to continue to decline. In the course of committing to research and development, enhancing our existing products and developing the AS.MAX product line, we have made projections and assumptions about the potential demand for our various product lines. If our projections or assumptions are incorrect for any reason, and our product lines do not sell as projected, our results of operations will be materially adversely affected. Since we incur most of our operating expenses and a portion of our cost of goods sold in foreign currencies, fluctuations in the values of foreign currencies could have a negative impact on our profitability. Although 87% of our sales in 2006 and a majority of our cost of goods sold were denominated in U.S. dollars, we incur most of our operating expenses and a portion of our cost of goods in British pounds and, to a lesser extent, New Israeli Shekels and euros. In 2006, approximately 24% of our combined operating expenses and cost of sales were denominated in British pounds. We expect these percentages to fluctuate over time. Fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies could have a negative impact on the profitability of our global operations and our business and our currency hedging activities may not limit these risks. The value of foreign currencies may also make our products more expensive than local products. We operate in highly dynamic and volatile industries characterized by rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and short product life cycles. The markets for our products have been characterized by rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and short product life cycles. Our success depends, in substantial part, on the timely and successful introduction of high quality new products and upgrades, as well as cost reductions on current products to address the operational speed, bandwidth, efficiency and cost requirements of our customers. With the adoption by the wireless broadband industry of the IEEE 802.16 and ETSI HiperMAN wireless MAN standards, our success will also depend on our ability to comply with these and other emerging industry standards, to operate with products of other suppliers. With the acquisition of our new AS.TONE and AS.NET product portfolios, we are moving more and more of our products to IP (Internet Protocol) based operating systems. The development of new, technologically advanced IP-optimized networking solutions and software products is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation, as well as the anticipation of technological and market trends. Our commitment to develop and refine our IP based operating systems may result in our expenses growing at a faster rate than our revenues, particularly since the initial investment to bring a new or enhanced product to market may be high. We may not be successful in targeting new market opportunities, in developing and commercializing new products in a timely manner or in achieving market acceptance for our new products. The success of new or enhanced products depends on a number of other factors, including the timely introduction of those products, market acceptance of new technologies and industry standards, the perceived quality and robustness of new or enhanced products, competing product offerings, the pricing and marketing of our products and the availability of funding for those networks. Products and technologies developed by our competitors or by us may render certain of our products obsolete. If we fail to respond in a timely and effective manner to unanticipated changes in one or more of the technologies affecting telecommunications and data networking or our new products or product enhancements fail to achieve market acceptance, our ability to compete effectively in our industry, and our sales, market share and customer relationships could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, unanticipated changes in market demand for products based on a specific technology, particularly lower than anticipated demand for IP-optimized networking solutions in either broadband wireless applications or on a stand-alone basis, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition if we fail to respond to those changes in a timely and effective manner. The adoption of open standards in the broadband wireless communications industry could result in increased competition. Prior to the adoption of the WiMAX standards, we sold products that operated on our own, proprietary operating technologies. We anticipate that we and other BWA equipment suppliers will increasingly sell products that are WiMAX Forum Certified or that meet WiMAX standards. With the adoption of WiMAX as the new industry standard for broadband wireless communications, many of those proprietary technologies will no longer be used in Airspan products. As a result, as we bring WiMAX-based systems to market, we may face increased competition from a number of other manufacturers who are no longer restricted by our intellectual property rights from building competing products. To remain competitive, we believe we must continue to invest significant resources in research and development, sales and marketing and customer support for WiMAX. We cannot be certain that we will have sufficient resources to make these investments or that we will be able to make the technological advances necessary to remain competitive. In developing products that conform to defined wireless-industry standards, we recognize that, by diminishing product differentiation, standardization may lower the barriers to entry by other manufacturers in the markets in which we seek to sell our products. If companies with greater resources than us choose to manufacture any standards-based products to compete with us, this may cause competition to be based on criteria such as the relative size, resources, marketing skills and financial incentives provided by our competitors, where we may be weaker than if competition is based on product differentiation alone. If we are unable to maintain our position as a technology leader in this market of open standards and broader competition, we may suffer reductions in revenues and margins and loss of market share, revenues and operating margins, which could result in reduced stock prices. 21 If we are not able to implement a program to conform our products to industry standards or to successfully market and sell our standards-based products, our revenues may decline. We have developed and continue to develop certain of our products in accordance with existing, emerging and anticipated wireless-industry standards. In particular, we develop our AS.MAX wireless products and product features to conform to IEEE 802.16-2004 and IEEE 802.16e standards. If our products fail to comply with these standards, we may not be able to sell them. Industry standards are subject to change from time to time by their regulatory bodies. If, as a result of any changes, the products we have developed fail to meet industry standards, as revised, we may not be able to sell such products. Our future success depends in part on the successful adoption by our customers of products that meet these industry standards. If the wireless broadband market does not adopt these standards or if our customers are unable to successfully deploy products based on these standards, we will not be successful selling these products. In developing products that conform to defined wireless-industry standards, we recognize that, by diminishing product differentiation, standardization may lower the barriers to entry by other manufacturers in the markets in which we seek to sell our products. If companies with greater resources than us choose to manufacture any standards-based products to compete with us, this may cause competition to be based on criteria such as the relative size, resources, marketing skills and financial incentives provided by our competitors, where we may be weaker than if competition is based on product differentiation alone. Competition from larger, better-capitalized or emerging competitors could result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of or inhibited growth of market share. We compete in a relatively new, rapidly evolving and highly competitive and fragmented market. We now compete with companies that are producing both mobile and fixed wireless communications systems, wired DSL, cable networks, fiber optic cable and occasionally satellite technologies and other new entrants to this industry, as well as traditional communications companies. Competitors vary in size and scope, in terms of products and services offered. With respect to the fixed broadband wireless solutions we offer today to serve in licensed and unlicensed frequencies, we believe we compete directly with Siemens, Alcatel, Motorola, Alvarion, Terabeam and SR Telecom, with a number of smaller privately-held companies and with the divisions of a number of institutional telecommunication equipment companies. We also believe we compete indirectly with a number of large telecommunication equipment suppliers such as Alcatel and Harris. Many of our competitors are substantially larger than we are and have significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, technical, manufacturing and other resources and more established distribution channels. These competitors may be able to respond more rapidly to new or emerging technologies such as WiMAX and changes in customer requirements, or to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and financing of their products than we can. Furthermore, some of our competitors have made or may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase their ability to gain customer market share rapidly. These competitors may enter our existing or future markets with systems that may be less expensive, provide higher performance or contain additional features. In addition, large companies are sometimes reluctant to base an important line of business on equipment purchased from a smaller vendor such as Airspan. Larger companies may also decide to wait to see how a new technology develops before committing any significant resources to deploying equipment from a particular supplier. We expect our competitors to continue to improve the performance of their current products and to introduce new products or new technologies that may supplant or provide lower-cost alternatives to our systems. This or other factors may result in changes in the market valuations of our competitors, which have been volatile recently, and could cause our stock price to fall. To remain competitive, we must continue to invest significant resources in research and development, sales and marketing and customer support. We cannot be certain that we will have sufficient resources to make these investments or that we will be able to make the technological advances necessary to remain competitive. 22 An inability to overcome competition from alternative communication systems could adversely affect our results of operations. We believe we encounter, and may increasingly encounter, competition from competing wireless technologies such as cellular technology. Cellular networks are now capable of delivering both voice and broadband data connectivity to fixed, mobile, nomadic and portable applications. These technologies, such as 1XRTT and EVDO, have the ability to provide for multiple voice channels and rate data services at transmission rates of 512Kbps on the uplink and 2.4 Mbps on the down link. Their data rates speeds continue to improve as they are modified. In addition, our technology competes with other high-speed solutions, such as wired DSL, cable networks, fiber optic cable and occasionally satellite technologies. The performance and coverage area of our wireless systems are dependent on certain factors that are outside of our control, including features of the environment in which the systems are deployed, such as the amount of clutter (natural terrain features and man-made obstructions) and the radio frequency available. Any inability to overcome these obstacles may make our technology less competitive in comparison with other technologies and make other technologies less expensive or more suitable. Our business may also compete in the future with products and services based on other wireless technologies and other technologies that have yet to be developed. We currently depend on a few key customers for substantially all of our sales. A loss of one or more of those customers could cause a significant decrease in our net revenue. We currently derive, and expect to continue to derive, a substantial percentage of our net sales from fewer than ten customers. In fiscal 2006, 72% of our revenue was derived from our top ten customers. In fiscal 2006, Axtel and Yozan accounted for approximately 26% and 19% of our annual revenue, respectively. They were the only customers that individually accounted for more than 10% of our 2006 revenue. It is possible that in fiscal 2007, Axtel and Yozan may together account for more than 25% of our annual revenue. No single customer is expected to account for more than 25% of our projected annual revenue in 2007. We believe that there are certain economies of scale inherent in our industry. Accordingly, the loss of Axtel or Yozan as a customer or the loss of any large percentage of our customer contracts could negatively impact our gross profit margins, our profitability and efforts to preserve cash resources. Axtel has the right to terminate the Axtel supply agreement if we fail to comply with the terms and conditions of the agreement and if such breach is not cured. For instance, if we fail to meet delivery schedules or if we fail to deliver products and services that meet the contract specifications, Axtel may claim we breached the agreement. Even if such failures are solely attributable to the acts or failures to act of third parties, Axtel may have the right to terminate the agreement. Additionally, Axtel itself has a limited operating history having only commenced operations in 1999, and is subject to its own competitive pressures and operating constraints in the Mexican economy. If Axtel should fail for any reason, or fail to have access to debt and equity markets for liquidity, it may not be able to continue to make purchases at the same levels as prior years. Yozan also has the right to terminate our supply agreement if we fail to comply with the terms and conditions of the agreement and such breach is not cured. For instance, if we fail to meet delivery schedules or if we fail to deliver products and services that meet the contract specifications, Yozan may claim we breached the agreement. Yozan is subject to its own competitive pressures and operating constraints in the Japanese economy. If Yozan should fail for any reason, or fail to have access to debt and equity markets for liquidity, it may not be able to make the purchases that we have forecast commitments under our supply agreement. The amount of revenue we derive from a specific customer is likely to vary from period to period, and a major customer in one period may not produce significant additional revenue in a subsequent period. We anticipate that our operating results will continue to depend on sales to a small number of key customers in the foreseeable future. In general, our contracts with our customers involve major deployments that require several months to fulfill, so our results may depend on the same major customers for consecutive quarters. Once a contract is fulfilled, we cannot assure you that the customer will continue to purchase upgrades or services from us, or possibly new products. It is necessary, therefore, for us to continually seek new customers in order to increase our revenue. To the extent that any major customer terminates its relationship with us, our revenues could decline significantly. We face certain risks related to the Yozan contract amendment. We face the risk that Yozan will materially delay or seek to cancel equipment orders. In a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) signed on September 8, 2006, we agreed with Yozan that the amount of the original supply agreement would be reduced from $42.9 million to approximately $28 million. As of the end of 2006, approximately $22.6 million of equipment had been delivered to Yozan, most of which had been accepted by Yozan. Yozan has made payments totaling $19.3 million for this equipment. The MOU requires delivery of 2,000 MicroMAX-SDR Base Stations and 20,000 subscriber terminals, but the final composition of products to be delivered may change under the agreement. The parties agreed to use reasonable efforts to complete deliveries by the end of 2006, but delays have now extended the delivery schedule into 2007. Scheduling of the remaining deliveries is still under discussion. 23 In the second quarter of 2006, we took a $4.4 million charge related to excess inventory reflecting our estimate of the most probable amount of excess inventories and purchase commitments (net of amounts that are cancelable), based on the amount we expected to deliver to Yozan under the amended supply contract. Since then, as a result of our ability to cancel or reduce some inventory purchase commitments with our contract manufacturers, and to obtain some more favorable payment and delivery terms for some of the inventories that are still to be delivered under orders we placed originally to fulfill the Yozan supply agreements, we revised our estimates of the most probable amount of excess inventories and purchase commitments. Accordingly, we reduced the amount of the accrued excess commitment by approximately $1.3 million in the third quarter of 2006. As a result of the reduction in the third quarter and purchases made under these commitments in the second half of 2006, the remaining accrual at December 31, 2006 is approximately $1.5 million. The remaining accrual could increase, however, if Yozan does not fully honor its amended purchase commitments. Our customer contracts vary widely in terms and duration, with many of our customers executing only short-term purchase orders, and our customer contracts allow our customers to terminate without significant penalties. Our contracts and purchase orders are separately negotiated with each of our customers and the terms vary widely. A majority of our customers may only execute short-term purchase orders for a single or a few systems at one time instead of long-term contracts for large-scale deployment of our systems. These contracts and purchase orders do not ensure that they will purchase any additional products beyond that specifically listed in the order. Moreover, since we often believe that these purchase orders may represent the early portion of longer-term customer programs, we often expend significant financial, personnel and operational resources to fulfill these orders. If our customers fail to purchase additional products to fulfill their programs as we hope, we may be unable to recover the costs we incur and our margins could suffer. In addition, our general framework contracts are generally non-exclusive and contain provisions allowing our customers to terminate the agreement without significant penalties. Our contracts also may specify the achievement of shipment, delivery and installation commitments. If we fail to meet these commitments or negotiate extensions in a timely manner, our customers may choose to terminate their contracts with us or impose monetary penalties. Changes in telecommunications regulation or delays in receiving licenses could adversely affect many of our customers and may lead to lower sales. Many of our customers are subject to extensive regulation as communications service providers. Changes in legislation or regulation that adversely affect those existing and potential customers could lead them to delay, reduce or cancel expenditures on communications access systems, which actions would harm our business. In the past, we have suffered the postponement of anticipated customer orders because of regulatory issues. The resolution of those issues can be lengthy and the outcome can be unpredictable. We have also received orders in the past from customers that were contingent upon their receipt of licenses from regulators, the timing of which was uncertain. The receipt of licenses by our customers may occur a year or more after they initially seek those licenses, or even after they place orders with us. At present there are few laws or regulations that specifically address our business of providing communications access equipment. However, future regulation may include access or settlement charges or tariffs that could impose economic burdens on our customers and us. We are unable to predict the impact, if any, that future legislation, judicial decisions or regulations will have on our business. Our sales cycle is typically long and unpredictable, making it difficult to accurately predict inventory requirements, forecast revenues and control expenses. Typically our sales cycle can range from one month to two years and varies by customer. The length of the sales cycle with a particular customer may be influenced by a number of factors. Before we receive orders, our customers typically test and evaluate our products for a period that can range from a month to more than a year. In addition, the emerging and evolving nature of the communication access market may cause prospective customers to delay their purchase decisions as they evaluate new and/or competing technologies or, wait for new products or technologies to come to market. As the average order size for our products increases, our customers’ processes for approving purchases may become more complex, leading to a longer sales cycle. We expect that our sales cycle will continue to be long and unpredictable. Accordingly, it is difficult for us to anticipate the quarter in which particular sales may occur, to determine product shipment schedules and to provide our manufacturers and suppliers with accurate lead-time to ensure that they have sufficient inventory on hand to meet our orders. Therefore, our sales cycle impairs our ability to forecast revenues and control expenses. 24 We make estimates relating to customer demand and errors in our estimates may have negative effects on our inventory levels, revenues and results of operations. We have historically been required to place firm orders or binding forecasts for products and components with our suppliers. These commitments to our suppliers may be placed up to six months prior to the anticipated delivery date based on the aggregate of our existing customer purchase commitments and our forecast of our customer future demands. Our sales process requires us to make multiple forecast assumptions relating to expected customer demand, each of which may introduce error into our estimates, causing excess inventory to accumulate or a lack of product supply when needed. If we overestimate customer demand, we may allocate resources to manufacturing products that we may not be able to sell when we expect or at all. As a result, we would have excess inventory, which would harm our financial results. Conversely, if we underestimate customer demand or if insufficient manufacturing capacity were available, we may lose revenue opportunities and market share and may damage our customer relationships. Our international sales may be difficult and costly as a result of the political, economic and regulatory risks in those regions. Sales to customers based outside the U.S. have historically accounted for a substantial majority of our revenues. In 2006, our international sales (sales to customers located outside the U.S. which includes a small percentage of U.S. customers where the final destination of the equipment is outside of the U.S.) accounted for approximately 92% of our total revenue, with sales to customers in South and Central America and the Caribbean, including Mexico, accounting for 40% of total revenue, and sales to customers in Europe, Asia and Africa accounting for approximately 18%, 30% and 4%, respectively, of total revenue. In many international markets, long-standing relationships between potential customers and their local suppliers and protective regulations, including local content requirements and type approvals, create barriers to entry. In addition, pursuing international opportunities may require significant investments for an extended period before returns on such investments, if any, are realized and such investments may result in expenses growing at a faster rate than revenues. The following risks inherent in international business could reduce the international demand for our products, decrease the prices at which we can sell our products internationally or disrupt our international operations, which could adversely affect our operations: · the imposition of tariffs, duties, price controls or other restrictions on foreign currencies or trade barriers imposed by foreign countries; · import or export controls, including licensing or product-certification requirements; · unexpected changes in government policies or regulatory requirements in the Unites States or in foreign governments and delays in receiving licenses to operate; · political instability and acts of war or terrorism; · economic instability, including the impact of economic recessions; · difficulty in staffing and managing geographically diverse operations, including our reluctance to staff and manage foreign operations as a result of political unrest even though we have business opportunities in a country; · any limitation on our ability to enforce intellectual property rights or agreements in regions where the judicial legal systems may be less developed or less protective of intellectual property or contractual rights; · capital and exchange control programs; · challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences; · fluctuations in currency exchange rates; · labor unrest; · restrictions on the repatriation of cash; · the nationalization of local industry; and · potentially adverse tax consequences. We may not be able to expand our sales and distribution capabilities, including establishing relationships with distributors and major system integrators and telecommunications equipment OEMs, which would harm our ability to generate revenue. We believe that our future success, particularly with respect to WiMAX, will depend upon our ability to expand our direct and indirect sales operations, including establishing relationships with distributors and major system integrators and telecommunications equipment OEMs. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in maintaining or expanding OEM agreements with major suppliers such as Nortel, Fujitsu and L.M. Ericsson. 25 Our operations in Israel may be disrupted by political and military tensions in Israel and the Middle East. We conduct various activities related to the WipLL, WiMAX and AS.TONE products in Israel, including: research and development; design; raw material procurement; and manufacturing through manufacturing subcontractors based in Israel. Our operations could be negatively affected by the political and military tensions in Israel and the Middle East. Israel has been involved in a number of armed conflicts with its neighbors since 1948 and a state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems in Israel. Since September 2000, a continuous armed conflict with the Palestinian Authority has been taking place. Conditions in Israel could, in the future, disrupt the development, manufacture and/or distribution of our products. Our dependence on key suppliers and contract manufacturers may result in product delivery delays if they do not have components in stock or terminate their non-exclusive arrangements with us. Some of the key components of our products are purchased from single vendors, including printed circuit board assemblies, application specific integrated circuits and radio frequency filters, for which alternative sources are generally not readily available in the short to medium term. If our vendors fail to supply us with components because they fail to remain in business, fail to meet our quality or production requirements, do not have the components in stock when we need them, if the supply of the components in the market is limited, or if our vendors reduce or eliminate their manufacturing capacity for these components or enter into exclusive relationships with other parties which prevent them from selling to us, we could experience significant delays in shipping our products while we seek other supply sources, which may result in our customers claiming damages for delays. At times we have been forced to purchase these components from distributors instead of from the manufacturers, which has significantly increased our costs. During the second quarter of 2005, as a result of a temporary shortage of components, we experienced temporary difficulty manufacturing enough products to meet certain existing orders in a timely manner. We do not have long-term contracts with all of our suppliers. Instead, we execute purchase orders approximately three to six months in advance of when we believe we may need the components. These purchase orders are non-exclusive, and we are generally not required to purchase any minimum volume of components from any of these suppliers. In those instances in which we do not have a long-term contract with a supplier, the supplier may terminate our relationship upon six months’ prior notice. In addition, we generally outsource our manufacturing processes to subcontractors all of whom rely on our forecasts of future orders to make purchasing and manufacturing decisions. We provide them with forecasts on a regular basis. If a forecast turns out to be inaccurate, it may lead either to excess inventory that would increase our costs or a shortage of components that would delay shipments of our systems. Our contracts with our major manufacturing subcontractors are non-exclusive and most contracts may be terminated with six months notice by either party without significant penalty. Other than agreeing to purchase the materials we request in the forecasts, we do not have any agreements with them to purchase any minimum volume. If we lose Eric Stonestrom or any of our other executive officers, we may encounter difficulty replacing their expertise, which could impair our ability to implement our business plan successfully. We believe that our ability to implement our business strategy and our future success depends on the continued employment of our senior management team, in particular our president and chief executive officer, Eric Stonestrom. Our senior management team, who have extensive experience in our industry and are vital to maintaining some of our major customer relationships, may be difficult to replace. The loss of the technical knowledge and management and industry expertise of these key employees could make it difficult for us to execute our business plan effectively, could result in delays in new products being developed, lost customers and diversion of resources while we seek replacements. We may not have adequate protection for our intellectual property, which may make it easier for others to misappropriate our technology and enable our competitors to sell competing products at lower prices and harm our business. Our success has historically relied in part on proprietary technology. We have used a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and contractual restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights associated with our products other than AS.MAX. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation of our technology, and we may not be able to detect unauthorized use or take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. The laws of some foreign countries, particularly in Asia, do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. and the U.K., and we may encounter substantial infringement problems in those countries. In addition, we do not file for patent protection in every country where we conduct business. In instances where we have licensed intellectual property from third parties, we may have limited rights to institute actions against third parties for infringement of the licensed intellectual property or to defend any suit that challenges the validity of the licensed intellectual property. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, or fail to do so under applicable law, it would be easier for our competitors to copy our products and sell competing products at lower prices, which would harm our business. 26 Our products may infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may result in lawsuits that could be costly to defend and prohibit us from selling our products. Third parties could assert exclusive patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property infringement claims against the technologies that are important to us. If any inquiry from a third party relating to patents or trademarks leads to a proceeding against us and we are unable to defend ourselves successfully, our ability to sell our products may be adversely affected and our business would be harmed. In addition, third parties may assert claims, or initiate litigation against us, or our manufacturers, suppliers or customers with respect to existing or future products, trademarks or other proprietary rights. Any claims against us, or customers that we indemnify against intellectual property claims, with or without merit, may: · be time-consuming, costly to defend and harm our reputation; · divert management’s attention and resources; · cause delays in the delivery of our products; · require the payment of monetary damages; · result in an injunction, which would prohibit us from using these technologies and require us to stop shipping our systems until they could be redesigned, if possible; and · require us to enter into license or royalty agreements, which may not be available on acceptable terms or require payment of substantial sums. A material defect in our products that either delays the commencement of services or affects customer networks could seriously harm our credibility and our business, and we may not have sufficient insurance to cover any potential liability. Fixed wireless devices are highly complex and frequently contain undetected software or hardware errors when first introduced or as new versions are released. We have detected and are likely to continue to detect errors and product defects in connection with new product releases and product upgrades. In the past, some of our products have contained defects that delayed the commencement of service by our customers. If our hardware or software contains undetected errors, we could experience: · delayed or lost revenues and reduced market share due to adverse customer reactions; · higher costs and expenses due to the need to provide additional products and services to a customer at a reduced charge or at no charge; · claims for substantial damages against us, regardless of our responsibility for any failure, which may lead to increased insurance costs; · negative publicity regarding us and our products, which could adversely affect our ability to attract new customers; and · diversion of management and development time and resources. Our general liability insurance coverage may not continue to be available on reasonable terms or in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims or our insurer may disclaim coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of any large claim against us could adversely affect our business. We have made, and may continue to make, strategic acquisitions or enter into joint ventures. If we are not successful in operating or integrating these acquisitions or joint ventures, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. In the past, we have acquired companies that we believed would enhance the expansion of our business and products. We may make selective opportunistic acquisitions of companies or businesses with resources and product or service offerings capable of providing us with additional product and/or market strengths. Acquisitions involve significant risks and uncertainties, including: 27 · the industry may develop in a different direction than anticipated and the technologies we acquire may not prove to be those we need; · the future valuations of acquired businesses may decrease from the market price we paid for these acquisitions; · the revenues of acquired businesses may not offset increased operating expenses associated with these acquisitions; · potential difficulties in integrating new products, software, businesses and operations in an efficient and effective manner; · our customers or customers of the acquired businesses may defer purchase decisions as they evaluate the impact of the acquisitions on our future product strategy; · potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses; · diversion of the attention of our senior management from the operation of our daily business; · entering new markets in which we have limited experience and where competitors may have a stronger market presence; · the potential adverse effect on our cash position as a result of all or a portion of an acquisition purchase price being paid in cash; · potential issuance of securities that are superior to the rights of holders of our common stock, or that would dilute our shareholders’ percentage ownership; · potential assumption and/or incurrence of liabilities and the increased risk of costly and time-consuming litigation, including stockholder lawsuits; and · the potential assumption of significant amounts of debt. Our inability to successfully operate and integrate newly acquired businesses in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our ability to take advantage of further growth in demand for IP-optimized network solutions, if any, and other advances in technologies and ultimately our results of operations and/or financial condition. Acquisitions are inherently risky, and no assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions could materially harm our business and operating results. Our use of the Credit Facility from Silicon Valley Bank presents certain risks. On August 1, 2006, we and our wholly-owned subsidiary, Airspan Communications Limited, entered into a Loan and Security Agreement (the "Loan and Security Agreement") with Silicon Valley Bank ("SVB"), with respect to a revolving credit line. For the two year term of the credit line, we may, subject to certain adjustments, borrow up to the lesser of (i) $10,000,000 and (ii) 80% of eligible accounts receivable. We are currently using the credit line, and we expect to continue to use it in 2007. Although we believe the credit facility will increase our financial resources and financial flexibility, our use of the credit facility does present certain risks. Our ability to borrow under the credit facility is a function of, among other things, our base of eligible accounts receivable and the rate at which advances are made against eligible receivables (the "Advance Rate"). If the amount or quality of our accounts receivable deteriorates or the Advance Rate is adjusted downward, our ability to borrow under the credit facility will be directly, negatively affected. If there is a downward adjustment in the borrowing base at a time when we are unable to, within three business days, repay SVB the amount by which the borrowing base has been decreased, we will likely be in default under the Loan and Security Agreement. In addition, the credit facility requires us to satisfy certain financial covenants. As a result, we cannot provide any assurances that we will be able to borrow under the Loan and Security Agreement at a time when we most need money to fund working capital or other needs. The credit facility also contains various provisions that restrict our use of cash and operating flexibility. These provisions could have important consequences for us, including (i) causing us to use a portion of our cash flow from operations for debt repayment and/or service rather than other perceived needs, (ii) precluding us from incurring additional debt financing for future working capital or capital expenditures and (iii) impacting our ability to take advantage of significant, perceived business opportunities, such as acquisition opportunities or to react to market conditions. Our failure to meet financial and other covenants could give rise to a default under the Loan and Security Agreement. In the event of an uncured default, the Loan and Security Agreement provides that all amounts owed to SVB are immediately due and payable and that SVB has the right to enforce its security interest in our assets. 28 Our projected demand for capital in future periods may change quickly and may adversely affect our results of operations and/or prospects. We recognize that our projected demand for capital in future periods may change quickly due to a variety of factors, estimates and assumptions. If our projected demand for capital materially increases and our then current and/or projected cash resources have not increased a comparable amount, we may need to modify our existing business plan. If we are ever compelled to adopt measures to conserve cash resources, such measures may adversely affect our results of operations and our short term and/or long term prospects for growth and profitability. If our stock price falls below $1.00 per share, our common stock may be de-listed from the NASDAQ Global Market. The National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. has established certain standards for the continued listing of a security on the NASDAQ Global Market. These standards require, among other things, that the minimum bid price for a listed security be at least $1.00 per share. Under NASDAQ’s listing maintenance standards, if the closing bid price of our common stock remains below $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive trading days, NASDAQ will issue a deficiency notice to us. If the closing bid price subsequently does not reach $1.00 per share or higher for a minimum of ten consecutive trading days during the 180 calendar days following the issuance of the deficiency notice from NASDAQ, NASDAQ may de-list our common stock from trading on the NASDAQ Global Market. If our common stock is to be de-listed from the NASDAQ Global Market, we may apply to have our common stock listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. In the event that such application is accepted, of which there can be no assurance, we anticipate the change in listings may result in a reduction in some or all of the following, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our investors: · the liquidity of our common stock; · the market price of our common stock; · the number of institutional investors that will consider investing in our common stock; · the number of investors in general that will consider investing in our common stock; · the number of market makers in our common stock; · the availability of information concerning the trading prices and volume of our common stock; · the number of broker-dealers willing to execute trades in shares of our common stock; and · our ability to obtain financing for the continuation of our operations. Should our application to the NASDAQ Capital Market be rejected or if we fail to continue to satisfy the NASDAQ Capital Market’s continued listing requirements, our common stock could be delisted entirely or relegated to trading on the over-the-counter-market. We have a significant shareholder whose interests may conflict with other shareholders of the Company. As of the date of this report, it is our understanding that Oak Investment Partners XI, Limited Partnership (“Oak”) owns all of the outstanding shares of the Company’s Series B Preferred Stock (the “Series B Shares”). Based upon our capitalization as of March 12, 2007, the Series B Shares are initially convertible into a total of approximately 33% of our common stock (assuming conversion of the Series B Shares, but without giving effect to the exercise or conversion of any other outstanding options, warrants or convertible securities) and, upon such conversion, would represent approximately 29% of the voting power outstanding. Because Oak has the ability to own a significant percentage of our voting power, it may have considerable influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election of directors and approval of mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, for as long as Oak is the holder of at least a majority of the issued and outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock and the number of shares of common stock into which the then outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock are convertible represents at least fifteen percent of the total issued and outstanding shares of our common stock, Oak will be entitled to elect one member of our Board of Directors. On September 22, 2006, our Board of Directors elected Mr. Bandel L. Carano, to the Company's Board of Directors. Mr. Carano has been designated by Oak as Oak's appointee to the Board. 29 So long as the Series B Preferred Stock is outstanding, we have agreed to refrain from taking certain actions without the approval of our holders of a majority of the then outstanding Series B Preferred Stock voting separately as a class. The rights and privileges of the Series B Preferred Stock may have an effect on our conduct of operations, financing or investing. In addition, upon any liquidation of the Company, certain mergers, reorganizations and/or consolidations of the Company into or with another corporation, the sale by us of all or substantially all of our assets or any transaction or series of related transactions in which a person, entity or group acquires 50% or more of the combined voting power of our then outstanding securities, the holders of the Series B Preferred Stock will have a claim against our assets senior to the claim of the holders of common stock in an amount equal to $290.00 per share of Series B Stock (as appropriately adjusted for any combinations, divisions, or similar recapitalizations affecting the Series B Preferred Stock after issuance). ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 