Item 1A. Risk Factors The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes to those statements and other financial information appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The following discussion contains forward- looking information within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, and are subject to the "safe harbor" created by those sections. In particular, statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are not historical facts, including but not limited to statements concerning revenues, revenue recognition, cost of revenues, operating expenses, research and development expenses, sales and marketing expenses, general and administrative expenses, employee-related costs, our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, valuations of investments, valuation of stock-based awards, and liquidity, constitute forward-looking statements and are made under these safe harbor provisions. Some of the forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terms such as "believes," "expects," "may," "will," "should," "could," "seek," "intends," "plans," "estimates," "anticipates," or other comparable terms. Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. We urge you to consider the risks and uncertainties discussed in greater detail under the heading "Risk Factors" in evaluating our forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations, assumptions, estimates and projections about our industry and ourselves, and we do not undertake an obligation to update our forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below before buying our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, 12 Table of Contents financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected, the trading price of our common stock could decline materially and you could lose all or part of your investment. Our quarterly revenue and operating results are unpredictable and may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and the trading price of our common stock. Our revenues and operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and any of which may cause our stock price to fluctuate. Generally, purchases by service providers of telecommunications equipment from manufacturers have been unpredictable and clustered, rather than steady, as the service providers build out their networks. The primary factors that may affect our revenues and operating results include the following: •consolidation within the telecommunications industry, including acquisitions of or by our customers; •general economic conditions, as well as those specific to the telecommunications, networking and related industries; •a general economic downturn that impacts the purchasing decisions of our significant customers or the timing and size of their orders, including work stoppages; •fluctuation in demand for our voice infrastructure products and the timing and size of customer orders; •fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; •the cancellation or deferral of existing customer orders or the renegotiation of existing contractual commitments; •the mix of product configurations sold; •the length and variability of the sales cycle for our products; •the application of complex revenue recognition accounting rules to our customer arrangements; •the timing of revenue recognition; •changes in our pricing policies, the pricing policies of our competitors and the prices of the components of our products; •new product introductions and enhancements by our competitors or by us, including new sales distribution channels; •our ability to develop, introduce and ship and successfully deliver new products and product enhancements that meet customer requirements in a timely manner; •our reliance on contract manufacturers for the production and shipment of our hardware products; •our ability to obtain sufficient supplies of sole or limited source components; •our ability to attain and maintain production volumes and quality levels for our products; •costs related to acquisitions; and •corporate restructurings. As with other telecommunications product suppliers, we may recognize a portion of our revenue in a given quarter from sales booked and shipped in the last weeks of that quarter. As a result, delays in customer orders may result in delays in shipments and recognition of revenue beyond the end of a given quarter. 13 Table of Contents A significant portion of our operating expenses is fixed in the short-term. If revenues for a particular quarter are below expectations, we may not be able to reduce costs and expenses proportionally for that quarter. Any such revenue shortfall would, therefore, have a significant effect on our operating results for that quarter. We believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. It is likely that in some future quarters, our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which may adversely affect our stock price. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. The market for technology stocks has been, and will likely continue to be, volatile. The following factors could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly: •continued activism by any single large stockholder or combination of stockholders; •addition or loss of any major customer; •consolidation and competition in the telecommunications industry; •changes in the financial condition or anticipated capital expenditure purchases of any existing or potential major customer; •economic conditions for the telecommunications, networking and related industries; •quarterly variations in our bookings, revenues and operating results; •changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; •speculation in the press or investment community; •announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, new products or acquisitions, distribution partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; •sales of common stock or other securities by us or by our stockholders in the future; •securities and other litigation; •announcement of a stock split, reverse stock split, stock dividend or similar event; and/or •emergence or adoption of new technologies or industry standards. We have incurred net losses and may incur additional net losses. We have incurred net losses in fiscal 2010, fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008. We may incur additional net losses in future quarters and years. Our revenues may not grow and we may never generate sufficient revenues to sustain profitability. World-wide efforts to cut capital spending, general economic uncertainty and a weakened global economy could have a material adverse effect on us. We are unable to predict the duration and severity of the current economic conditions and disruption in financial markets or their effects on our business and results of operations, but the consequences may be materially adverse and more severe than other recent economic slowdowns. Continuing market upheaval may have an adverse affect on us because we are dependent on customer behavior. Economic conditions worldwide and the recent financial downturn may continue to contribute 14 Table of Contents to slowdowns in the communications and networking industries, as well as to specific segments and markets in which we operate, resulting in: •reduced demand for our products as a result of our customers choosing to refrain from building capital intensive networks; •increased price competition for our products, not only from our competitors, but also as a consequence of customers disposing of unutilized products; •risk of excess and obsolete inventories; •excess facilities and manufacturing capacity; and/or •higher overhead costs as a percentage of revenue and higher interest expense. Continuing turmoil in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world, including terrorist activities and military actions, particularly the continuing tension in Southeast Asia, the Middle East and Africa may continue to put pressure on global economic conditions. Our operating results and our ability to expand into other international markets may also be affected by changing economic conditions particularly germane to that segment or to particular customer markets within that segment. Some of our current or prospective customers may cancel or delay spending on the development or roll-out of capital and technology projects with us due to the continuing economic uncertainty and, consequently, our results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, the current negative worldwide economic conditions and market instability make it increasingly difficult for us, our customers and our suppliers to accurately forecast future product demand, which could result in an inability to satisfy demand for our products and a loss of market share. Our revenues are likely to decline in such circumstances and our profit margins could erode. In addition, in the event of extreme prolonged events, such as the global credit crisis, we could incur significant losses. Factors such as consumer spending, business investment, volatility and strength of the capital markets and information all affect the business and economic environment, and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our business. In an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the demand for our products could be adversely affected. If global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in the United States or other key markets, continue to deteriorate, we may experience material impacts on our business, operating results and financial condition. We are enhancing our sales strategy, which will include more significant engagements with distribution partners to sell our products. Disruptions to, or our failure to effectively develop and manage, our distribution channel and the processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products. If we do not have adequate personnel, experience and resources to manage the relationships with our distribution partners and to fulfill our responsibilities under such arrangements, such shortcomings could lead to the decrease of the sales of our products and our operating results could suffer. We are enhancing our sales strategy, which will include more significant engagement with distribution partners to sell our products. Our future success is highly dependent upon establishing and maintaining successful relationships with a variety of value-added reseller and distribution partners. A portion of our revenue is derived through distribution partners, many of which sell competitive products. The loss of or reduction in sales by these distribution partners could materially reduce our revenues. If we fail to maintain relationships with these distribution partners, fail to develop new relationships with distribution partners in new markets, fail to manage, train, or provide incentives to existing distribution partners effectively or if these partners are not successful in their sales efforts, 15 Table of Contents sales of our products may decrease and our operating results could suffer. Moreover, if we do not have adequate personnel, experience and resources to manage the relationship with our distribution partners and to fulfill our responsibilities under such arrangements, any shortcomings could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, we recognize a portion of our revenue based on a sell-through model using information provided by our distribution partners. If those distribution partners provide us with inaccurate or untimely information, the amount or timing of our revenues could be adversely affected. We may also experience financial failure of distribution partners, which would result in our inability to collect accounts receivable in full. The current global economic downturn raises the potential of our customers incurring financial difficulties (including bankruptcy), which would adversely impact our results of operations and financial position as a result of lower customer sales and write-offs of uncollectible accounts receivable. As the telecommunications industry and the requirements of our current and potential customers evolve, we are redirecting certain of our resources to more readily respond to the changing environment. If our strategic plan is not aligned with the direction our customers take as they invest in the evolution of their networks, customers may not buy our products or use our services. Our strategic plan is designed to address the changing telecommunications industry's needs. This plan includes accelerating the shift in our investments from mature technologies that previously generated significant revenue for us toward certain next-generation technologies as well as working with more distribution partners to sell our products. Our choices of specific technologies to pursue, including all-IP-based solutions, and those to de-emphasize may prove to be inconsistent with our customers' investment spending. We are dependent upon our voice infrastructure products, and our future revenues depend upon their commercial success. Our future growth depends upon the commercial success of our voice infrastructure products and our solutions that are all-IP. We intend to develop and introduce new products and enhancements to existing products in the future; however, we may not successfully complete the development or introduction of these products. Further, the systems and software required to manage all-IP-based voice calls will need to evolve to support all types of media session types, not just voice. If our target customers do not adopt, purchase and successfully deploy our current or planned products, our revenues will not grow. If we do not respond rapidly to technological changes or to changes in industry standards, our products could become obsolete. The market for packet voice infrastructure products is likely to be characterized by rapid technological change and frequent new product introductions. We may be unable to respond quickly or effectively to these developments. We may experience difficulties with software development, hardware design, manufacturing or marketing that could delay or prevent our development, introduction or marketing of new products and enhancements. The introduction of new products by our competitors, the market acceptance of products based on new or alternative technologies or the emergence of new industry standards could render our existing or future products obsolete. If the standards adopted are different from those that we have chosen to support, market acceptance of our products may be significantly reduced or delayed. If our products become technologically obsolete, we may be unable to sell our products in the marketplace and generate revenues. 16 Table of Contents If we fail to compete successfully against telecommunications equipment and networking companies, our ability to increase our revenues and sustain profitability will be impaired. Competition in the telecommunications market is intense. This market has historically been dominated by large incumbent telecommunications equipment companies, such as Alcatel-Lucent, NEC, Nokia Siemens, Huawei and Ericsson, all of which are our direct competitors. We also face competition from other telecommunications and networking companies, including Cisco Systems and Acme Packet, that design competing products. Other competitors may also merge, intensifying competition. Additional competitors with significant financial resources may enter our markets and further intensify competition. Many of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater selling and marketing, technical, manufacturing, financial and other resources than we have. Further, some of our competitors sell significant amounts of other products to our current and prospective customers and have the ability to offer lower prices to win business. Our competitors' broad product portfolios, coupled with already existing relationships, may cause our customers to buy our competitors' products or harm our ability to attract new customers. To compete effectively, we must deliver innovative products that: •provide extremely high reliability and voice quality; •deploy and scale easily and efficiently; •interoperate with existing network designs and other vendors' equipment; •provide effective network management; •are accompanied by comprehensive customer support and professional services; •provide a cost-effective and space efficient solution for service providers; and •meet price competition from low cost equipment providers. If we are unable to compete successfully against our current and future competitors, we could experience price reductions, order cancellations, loss of customers and revenues, and our operating results could be adversely affected. If we do not anticipate and meet specific customer requirements or if our products do not interoperate with our customers' existing networks, we may not retain current customers or attract new customers. To achieve market acceptance for our products, we must effectively anticipate, and adapt in a timely manner to, customer requirements and offer products and services that meet changing customer demands. Prospective customers may require product features and capabilities that our current products do not have. The introduction of new or enhanced products also requires that we carefully manage the transition from older products in order to minimize disruption in customer ordering patterns and ensure that adequate supplies of new products can be delivered to meet anticipated customer demand. If we fail to develop products and offer services that satisfy customer requirements, if we develop products and offer services that are not widely adopted by the telecommunications industry, or if we fail to effectively manage the transition from older products, our ability to create or increase demand for our products would be seriously harmed and we may lose current and prospective customers. Many of our customers will require that our products be designed to interface with their existing networks, each of which may have different specifications. Issues caused by an unanticipated lack of interoperability may result in significant warranty, support and repair costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our hardware and software development efforts and cause significant customer relations problems. If our products do not interoperate with those of our customers' 17 Table of Contents networks, installations could be delayed or orders for our products could be cancelled, which would seriously harm our gross margins and result in loss of revenues or customers. Additionally, our customers may decide to devote a significant portion of their budgets to evolving technology as they consider national or worldwide build-outs. Therefore, if the demand for our products is not strong and if our target customers do not adopt, purchase and successfully deploy our current or planned products, our revenues will not grow. We expect that a majority of our revenue will be generated from a limited number of customers and we will not be successful if we do not grow our customer base. To date, we have shipped our products to a limited number of customers. In fiscal 2010, one customer, AT&T, contributed approximately 21% of our revenue. The same customer contributed approximately 29% of our revenue in fiscal 2008. We did not have any single customer that contributed 10% or more of our revenue in fiscal 2009. Factors that may affect our ability to grow our customer base include the following: •economic conditions that discourage potential new customers from making the capital investments required to adopt new technologies; •deterioration in the general financial condition of service providers or their ability to raise capital or access lending sources; and/or •new product introductions by our competitors. If we are unable to expand our customer base, we will be forced to rely on generating recurring revenue from existing customers which may not be successful. Our future success will depend on our ability to attract additional customers beyond our current limited number. If we are unable to generate recurring business from our limited number of existing customers, our financial position and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We expect that in the foreseeable future, the majority of our revenue will continue to depend on sales of our products to a limited number of existing customers. Factors that may affect our ability to generate recurring revenues from our existing customers include the following: •customer willingness to implement our new voice infrastructure products; •acquisitions of or by our customers; •delays or difficulties that we may incur in completing the development and introduction of our planned products or product enhancements; •failure of our products to perform as expected; and/or •difficulties we may incur in meeting customers' delivery requirements. The loss of any significant customer or any substantial reduction in purchase orders from these customers could materially and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Our large customers have substantial negotiating leverage, and they may require that we agree to terms and conditions that may have an adverse effect on our business. Large telecommunications providers have substantial purchasing power and leverage in negotiating contractual arrangements with us. These customers may, among other things, require us to develop additional features, require penalties for failure to deliver such features, require us to partner with a certain reseller before purchasing our products and/or seek discounted product or service pricing. As we sell more products to this class of customer, we may be required to agree to such terms and conditions, which may affect the timing of revenue recognition, amount of deferred revenues or product and service margins and may adversely affect our financial position in certain reporting periods. 18 Table of Contents Due to our reliance on significant customer contracts, we have financial exposure to the continued financial stability of our customers. Due to our reliance on significant customer contracts, we are dependent on the continued financial strength of our customers. The current economic crisis could have already had or could have in the future a material adverse affect on these customers. If one or more of our significant customers experience financial difficulties, it could result in uncollectible accounts receivable and our loss of significant customers and anticipated service revenue. We are exposed to the credit risk of some of our customers and to credit exposures in weakened markets, which could result in material losses. Most of our sales are on an open credit basis, with typical payment terms of 30 to 45 days. We monitor individual customer payment capability in granting such open credit arrangements, seek to limit such open credit to amounts we believe our customers can pay and maintain reserves we believe are adequate to cover exposure for doubtful accounts. However, there can be no assurance that our open credit customers will pay the amounts they owe to us or that the reserves we maintain will be adequate to cover such credit exposure. Our customers' failure to pay and/or our failure to maintain sufficient reserves could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Additionally, in the event that the ongoing turmoil in the credit markets makes it more difficult for some customers to obtain financing, those customers' ability to pay could be adversely impacted, which in turn could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. A portion of our sales are derived through our distributors. As distributors tend to have more limited financial resources than other resellers and end-user customers, they generally represent sources of increased credit risk. The current global economic downturn raises the potential of our customers incurring financial difficulties (including bankruptcy), which would adversely impact our results of operations and financial position as a result of lower customer sales and write-offs of uncollectible accounts receivable. We may face risks associated with our international expansion that could impair our ability to grow our international revenues. International revenue approximated $80 million, or approximately 32% of revenue, in fiscal 2010, $69 million, or approximately 30% of revenue, in fiscal 2009 and $94 million, or approximately 30% of revenue, in fiscal 2008. We intend to continue to expand our sales in international markets. This expansion has and will continue to require significant management attention and financial resources to successfully develop direct and indirect international sales and support channels. In addition, we may not be able to develop international market demand for our products, which could impair our ability to grow our revenues. We have limited experience marketing, distributing and supporting our products internationally and, to do so, we expect that we will need to develop versions of our products that comply with local standards. Furthermore, international operations are subject to other inherent risks, including: •reliance on distributors and resellers; •greater difficulty collecting accounts receivable and longer collection cycles; •difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations; •the impact of differing technical standards outside the United States; •the impact of the current global economic downturn and related market uncertainty; •changes in regulatory requirements and currency exchange rates; 19 Table of Contents •compliance with international trade, customs and export control regulations; •certification requirements and/or approval by a government authority; •reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; •potentially adverse tax consequences; •considerations that affect government and service provider spending patterns; •health or similar issues, such as pandemic or epidemic; and •political, social and economic instability. If we fail to manage the operational and financial risks associated with our international operations, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We operate in international and emerging markets. In many international markets, long-standing relationships between potential customers and their local suppliers and protective regulations, including local content requirements and approvals, create barriers to entry. In addition, pursuing international opportunities may require significant investments for an extended period before returns on those investments, if any, are realized, which may result in expenses growing at a faster rate than revenues. Furthermore, those opportunities could be adversely affected by, among other factors: reversals or delays in the opening of foreign markets to new competitors or the introduction of new technologies into those markets; government regulations delaying and/or prohibiting potential sales or increasing the cost of doing business in such markets; a challenging pricing environment in highly competitive new markets; exchange controls; restrictions on repatriation of cash; nationalization or regulation of local industry; economic, social and political risks; taxation; challenges in staffing and managing international opportunities; and acts of war or terrorism. Difficulties in foreign financial markets and economies and of foreign financial institutions, particularly in emerging markets, could adversely affect demand from customers in the affected countries. An inability to maintain our business in international and emerging markets while balancing the higher operational and financial risks associated with these markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our use and reliance upon development resources in India may expose us to unanticipated costs and/or liabilities. We have a significant development center in Bangalore, India and, in recent years, have increased headcount and development activity at this facility. The employees at this facility consist principally of research and development personnel. There is no assurance that our reliance upon development resources in India will enable us to achieve meaningful cost reductions or greater resource efficiency. Further, our development efforts and other operations in India involve significant risks, including: •difficulty hiring and retaining appropriate engineering and management resources due to intense competition for such resources and resulting wage inflation; •the knowledge transfer related to our technology and resulting exposure to misappropriation of intellectual property or information that is proprietary to us, our customers and other third parties; •heightened exposure to changes in economic, security and political conditions in India; and •fluctuations in currency exchange rates and tax compliance in India. 20 Table of Contents Difficulties resulting from the factors noted above and other risks related to our operations in India could expose us to increased expense, impair our development efforts, harm our competitive position and damage our reputation. We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could subject us to liability or impair our ability to compete in international markets. Our products are subject to U.S. export controls and may be exported outside the United States only with the required level of export license or through an export license exception because we incorporate encryption technology into our products. In addition, various countries regulate the import of certain encryption technology and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our products or our customers' ability to implement our products in those countries. Changes in our products or changes in export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction of our products in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our products throughout their global systems or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products to certain countries altogether. Any change in export or import regulations or related legislation, shift in approach to the enforcement or scope of existing regulations or change in the countries, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our products by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to, existing or potential customers with international operations. Any decreased use of our products or limitation on our ability to export or sell our products would likely have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may face risks related to litigation that could result in significant legal expenses and settlement or damage awards. In the past, we have been named as a defendant in securities class action and derivative lawsuits. We are generally obliged, to the extent permitted by law, to indemnify our current and former directors and officers who are named as defendants in these lawsuits. While we currently expect that the matters pending in our current securities litigation have been or are close to being resolved, defending against existing and potential litigation may require significant attention and resources of management. Regardless of the outcome, such litigation will result in significant legal expenses. If our defenses in any of our pending litigation are ultimately unsuccessful, or if we are unable to achieve a favorable settlement, we could be liable for large damage awards that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. For additional information on our pending litigation, please see Part I, Item 3 "Legal Proceedings" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our ability to compete and our business could be jeopardized if we are unable to protect our intellectual property or become subject to intellectual property rights claims, which could require us to incur significant cost; additionally, in some jurisdictions, our rights may not be as strong as we currently enjoy in the United States. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology. Monitoring unauthorized use of our products is difficult and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. The legal systems of many foreign countries do not protect or honor intellectual property rights to the same extent as the legal system of the United States. It may be very difficult, time-consuming and costly for 21 Table of Contents us to attempt to enforce our intellectual property rights in these jurisdictions. If competitors are able to use our technology, our ability to compete effectively could be harmed. In addition, we and our customers have received inquiries from intellectual property owners and may become subject to claims that we or our customers infringe their intellectual property rights. Any parties asserting that our products infringe upon their proprietary rights could force us to license their patents for substantial royalty payments or to defend ourselves and possibly our customers or contract manufacturers in litigation. These claims and any resulting licensing arrangement or lawsuit, if successful, could subject us to significant royalty payments or liability for damages and invalidation of our proprietary rights. Any potential intellectual property litigation also could force us to do one or more of the following: •stop selling, incorporating or using our products that use the challenged intellectual property; •obtain from the owner of the infringed intellectual property right a license to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; or •redesign those products that use any allegedly infringing technology. Any lawsuits regarding intellectual property rights, regardless of their success, would be time-consuming, expensive to resolve and would divert our management's time and attention. In addition, although historically our costs to defend lawsuits relating to indemnification provisions in our product agreements have been insignificant, the costs were significant in the fiscal 2008 and may be significant in future periods. Because our products are sophisticated and designed to be deployed in complex environments, they may have errors or defects that we find only after full deployment, which could seriously harm our business. Our products are sophisticated and are designed to be deployed in large and complex networks. Because of the nature of our products, they can only be fully tested when substantially deployed in very large networks with high volumes of traffic. Some of our customers have only recently begun to commercially deploy our products and they may discover errors or defects in the software or hardware, or the products may not operate as expected. As we continue to expand our distribution channel through distributors and resellers, we will need to rely on and support their service and support organizations. If we are unable to fix errors or other performance problems that may be identified after full deployment of our products, we could experience: •loss of, or delay in, revenues or increased expense; •loss of customers and market share; •failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance for our products; •increased service, support and warranty costs and a diversion of development resources; and/or •costly and time-consuming legal actions by our customers. If we are not able to obtain necessary licenses of third-party technology at acceptable prices, or at all, our products could become obsolete. We have incorporated third-party licensed technology into our current products. From time to time, we may be required to license additional technology from third parties to develop new products or product enhancements. Third-party licenses may not be available or continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or may be available to us but only at significantly escalated pricing. Additionally, we may not be able to replace the functionality provided by third-party software currently offered with our products if that software becomes obsolete, defective or incompatible with future versions of our products or is not adequately maintained or updated. The inability to maintain or 22 Table of Contents re-license any third-party licenses required in our current products or to obtain any new third-party licenses to develop new products and product enhancements could require us to obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards or at greater cost, and delay or prevent us from making these products or enhancements, any of which could seriously harm the competitiveness of our products. Any significant interruption in the availability of these third-party software products or defects in these products could harm our sales unless and until we can secure an alternative source. Although we believe there are adequate alternate sources for the technology licensed to us, such alternate sources may not provide us with the same functionality as that currently provided to us. Because our products are deployed in large, complex networks around the world, failure to establish a support infrastructure and maintain required support levels could seriously harm our business. Our products are deployed in large and complex networks around the world. Our customers expect us to establish a support infrastructure and maintain demanding support standards to ensure that their networks maintain high levels of availability and performance. To support the continued growth of our business, our support organization will need to provide service and support at a high level throughout the world. If we are unable to provide the expected level of support and service to our customers, we could experience: •loss of customers and market share; •a failure to attract new customers in new geographies; •increased service, support and warranty costs and a diversion of development resources; and/or •network performance penalties. The hardware products that we purchase from our third-party vendors have life cycles, and some of those products have reached the end of their life cycles. If we are unable to correctly estimate future requirements for these products, it could harm our operating results or business. Some of the hardware products that we purchase from our third-party vendors have reached the end of their life cycles. It may be difficult for us to maintain appropriate levels of the discontinued hardware to adequately ensure that we do not have a shortage or surplus of inventory of these products. If we do not correctly forecast the demand for such hardware, we could have excess inventory and may need to write off the costs related to such purchases. The write-off of surplus inventory could materially and adversely affect our operating results. However, if we underestimate our forecast and our customers place orders to purchase more products than are available, we may not have sufficient inventory to support their needs. If we are unable to provide our customers with enough of these products, it could make it difficult to retain certain customers, which could have a material and adverse affect on our business. Man-made problems such as computer viruses or terrorism may disrupt our operations and harm our operating results. Despite our implementation of network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Efforts to limit the ability of malicious third parties to disrupt the operations of the Internet or undermine our own security efforts may be met with resistance. In addition, the continued threat of terrorism and heightened security and military action in response to this threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may cause further disruptions to the economies of the United States and other countries and create further uncertainties or otherwise materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Likewise, events such as work stoppages or widespread blackouts could have similar negative 23 Table of Contents impacts. The extent that such disruptions or uncertainties result in delays or cancellations of customer orders or the manufacture or shipment of our products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Provisions of our stockholder rights plan, charter documents and Delaware law have anti-takeover effects that could prevent a change of control. We adopted a three-year limited duration stockholder rights plan, commonly referred to as a "poison pill," on June 26, 2008. The stockholder rights plan, which will expire on June 26, 2011, is designed to protect stockholders, to the extent possible, from a creeping acquisition and other tactics to gain control of us without offering all stockholders an adequate price and control premium. Under the stockholder rights plan, the acquisition of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock by any person or group (which includes for this purpose common stock referenced in derivative transactions or securities), unless approved by our Board of Directors, will trigger the right of our stockholders (other than the acquirer of 15% or more of our common stock) to acquire additional shares of our common stock (and in certain cases, the shares of the potential acquirer), having a market value of twice the exercise price of each right. A person or group who beneficially owned 15% or more of the outstanding shares of our common stock prior to the adoption of the stockholder rights plan did not cause the rights to become exercisable upon adoption of the stockholder rights plan. However, such person or group would cause the rights to become exercisable (subject to certain limited exceptions) if it becomes the beneficial owner of additional shares of our common stock or if its beneficial ownership decreases below 15% and subsequently increases to 15% or more. Because the rights may substantially dilute the stock ownership of a person or group attempting to take us over without the approval of our Board of Directors, our stockholder rights plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us (or a significant percentage of our outstanding capital stock) without first negotiating with our Board of Directors regarding that acquisition. In addition, provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated by-laws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. Actions that may be taken by significant stockholders may divert the time and attention of our board of directors and management from our business operations. Campaigns by significant investors to effect changes at publicly traded companies have increased in recent years. In 2009, we entered into a letter agreement with our then-largest stockholder, pursuant to which we agreed to take certain actions related to our corporate governance. While we believe we have satisfied in full our obligations under such letter agreement, there can be no assurance that such stockholder and/or any other stockholder will not pursue actions to effect changes in our management and strategic direction, including through the solicitation of proxies from our stockholders. If a proxy contest were to be pursued by any stockholder, it could result in substantial expense to us, consume significant attention of our management and Board of Directors, and disrupt our business. Failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures could impair our ability to report accurate financial results and could seriously harm our business. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. The failure or circumvention of our controls, policies and procedures could impair our ability to report accurate financial results and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. 24 Table of Contents Changes in our business strategy related to product and maintenance offerings and pricing could affect revenue recognition. Our business strategy and competition within the industry could exert pricing pressure on our maintenance offerings. Changes in our product or maintenance offerings/packages and related pricing could affect the amount of revenue recognized in a reporting period. Any changes to existing accounting pronouncements or taxation rules or practices may cause adverse fluctuations in our reported results of operations or affect how we conduct our business. A change in accounting pronouncements or taxation rules or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements, taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements or taxation rules have occurred in the past and may occur in the future. The change to existing rules, future changes, if any, or the need for us to modify a current tax position may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. For example, Accounting Standards Update 2009-13 will become effective for us in fiscal 2011. Although we do not expect the adoption of this standard to have a material impact on our financial statements, actual results may differ. In addition, the International Accounting Standards Board and Financial Accounting Standards Board joint project on a new revenue recognition standard is expected to be finalized in 2011 and could be effective for companies as early as 2014. We have not yet assessed the impact of adopting this potential new standard. If our goodwill or intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. Under generally accepted accounting principles, we review our intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or intangible assets may not be recoverable include significant underperformance relative to plan or long-term projections, strategic changes in business strategy, significant negative industry or economic trends, significant change in circumstances relative to a large customer, significant decline in our stock price for a sustained period and decline in our market capitalization to below net book value. In connection with the preparation of our financial statements for the second and fourth quarters of fiscal 2008, we identified several impairment indicators related to the intangible assets and goodwill allocated to Zynetix Ltd. and the intangible assets allocated to Atreus Systems, Inc. and performed assessments of the carrying value of these assets. As a result of these assessments, we recorded impairment charges aggregating $6.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, of which $3.6 million was included as a component of Loss from discontinued operations in our consolidated statement of operations. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements in future periods if any additional impairment of our intangible assets or goodwill is determined, negatively impacting our results of operations. If we fail to hire and retain needed personnel, the implementation of our business plan could slow or our future growth could halt. Our business depends upon highly skilled technical, managerial, engineering, sales, marketing and customer support personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, especially as the economy continues to recover. Any failure to hire, assimilate in a timely manner and retain needed qualified personnel, particularly engineering and sales personnel, could impair our growth and make it difficult to meet key objectives, such as timely and effective product introductions. 25 Table of Contents Our future success depends upon the continued services of our executive officers who have critical industry experience and relationships that we rely on to implement our business plan. With the exception of our key employees based in the European Union, none of our officers or key employees is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term. The loss of the services of any of our officers or key employees could delay the development and introduction of, and negatively impact our ability to sell, our products and achieve our business objectives. We had four executive departures in fiscal 2010, including the departure of our Chief Operating Officer on December 30, 2010, our then-current President and Chief Executive Officer on October 12, 2010, our Vice President of Sales on September 30, 2010 and our then-current Chief Financial Officer on February 8, 2010. While we have since recruited executive officers to fill the positions of President and Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Technology Officer, there is always a risk of uncertainty and instability relating to our ability to find highly qualified successors for certain executive positions and to transition the duties and responsibilities of any departing key executive in an orderly manner. We have a limited number of shares available to issue to our employees, which could impact our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel. We historically have used stock options as a significant component of our employee compensation program in order to align employees' interests with the interests of our stockholders, encourage employee retention, and provide competitive compensation packages. In 2007, our stockholders approved a stock incentive plan, which includes a limited amount of shares to be granted under such plan. It is not certain that our stockholders will approve an increase in the number of shares that we are authorized to issue under the stock incentive plan. The limited number of shares available for use as equity incentives to employees may make it more difficult for us to attract, retain and motivate key personnel. Restructuring activities could adversely affect our ability to execute our business strategy. During fiscal 2008, 2009 and 2010 we had a number of restructuring activities. These restructurings and any future restructurings, should it become necessary for us to continue to restructure our business due to worldwide market conditions or other factors that reduce the demand for our products and services, could adversely affect our ability to execute our business strategy in a number of ways, including: •loss of key employees; •diversion of management's attention from normal daily operations of the business; •diminished ability to respond to customer requirements related to both products and services; •disruption of our engineering and manufacturing processes, which could adversely affect our ability to introduce new products and to deliver products both on a timely basis and in accordance with the highest quality standards; and/or •reduced ability to execute effectively internal administrative processes, including the implementation of key information technology programs. If we are subject to employment claims, we could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves. We may be subject to employment claims in connection with employee terminations. In addition, companies in our industry whose employees accept positions with competitors may claim that their competitors have engaged in unfair hiring practices. These claims may result in material litigation. We could incur substantial costs defending ourselves or our employees against those claims, regardless of 26 Table of Contents their merits. In addition, defending ourselves from those types of claims could divert our management's attention from our operations. The cost of employment claims may also increase as a result of our increasing international expansion. If we are found liable in connection with any employment claim, we may incur significant costs that could adversely impact our financial position and results of operations. We depend upon a single contract manufacturer and any disruption in this relationship may cause us to fail to meet the demands of our customers and damage our customer relationships. Additionally, in the event we elect to change our manufacturer, qualifying a new contract manufacturer and commencing commercial scale production are expensive and time-consuming activities and could affect our business. We rely on a contract manufacturer to manufacture our products according to our specifications and to fulfill orders on a timely basis. Reliance on a third-party manufacturer involves a number of risks, including a lack of control over the manufacturing process and the potential absence or unavailability of adequate capacity. Our contract manufacturer provides comprehensive manufacturing services, including assembly and certain tests of our products and procurement of materials. Our contract manufacturer also builds products for other companies and may not always have sufficient quantities of inventory available to fulfill our orders or may not allocate their internal resources to fulfill these orders on a timely basis. We neither have a long-term supply contract with our manufacturer nor internal manufacturing capabilities to meet our customers' demands. Moreover, our manufacturer is not required to manufacture products for any specified period. In the event we elect to change our manufacturer, qualifying a new contract manufacturer and commencing commercial scale production are expensive and time-consuming activities and could result in a significant interruption in the supply of our products. If a change in contract manufacturers results in delays in our fulfillment of customer orders or if a contract manufacturer fails to make timely delivery of orders, we may lose revenues and suffer damage to our customer relationships. We and our contract manufacturer rely on single or limited sources for supply of some components of our products and if we fail to adequately predict our manufacturing requirements or if our supply of any of these components is disrupted, we will be unable to ship our products. We and our contract manufacturer currently purchase several key components of our products, including commercial digital signal processors, from single or limited sources. We purchase these components on a purchase order basis. If we overestimate our component and finished goods requirements, we could have excess inventory, which would increase our costs. If we underestimate our requirements, we may not have an adequate supply, which could interrupt manufacturing of our products and result in delays in shipments and revenues. Moreover, we cannot be certain or provide any assurance that our contract manufacturer will accept any or all of the purchase orders and agree to supply any or all of the quantities requested. Additionally, if our contract manufacturer underestimates our requirements, they may not have an adequate supply, which could interrupt manufacturing of our products and result in delays in shipments. If any of our sole or limited source suppliers experience capacity constraints, work stoppages or other reductions or disruptions in output, they may not be able to meet, or may choose not to meet, our delivery schedules. In light of the continuing downturn in the global economic conditions, there is also a risk that our distributors could experience interruptions in production or operations or alter our current arrangements. If our supply of any key components is disrupted, we may be unable to deliver our products to our customers on a timely basis, which could result in lost or delayed revenue, injury to our reputation, increased manufacturing costs and exposure to claims by our customers. Even if alternate suppliers are available, we may have difficulty identifying them in a timely manner, incur significant additional expense in changing suppliers, and experience difficulties or delays in the manufacturing of our products. Any failure to meet our customers' delivery requirements could harm our reputation and may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. 27 Table of Contents We currently do not have long-term supply contracts with our component suppliers and they are not required to supply us with products for any specified periods, in any specified quantities or at any set price, except as may be specified in a particular purchase order. In the event of a disruption or delay in supply, or inability to obtain products, we may not be able to develop an alternate source in a timely manner or at favorable prices, or at all. A failure to find acceptable alternative sources could hurt our ability to deliver high-quality products to our customers and negatively affect our operating margins. In addition, reliance on our suppliers exposes us to potential supplier production difficulties, quality variations and unforeseen price increases. Our customers rely upon our ability to meet committed delivery dates, and any disruption in the supply of key components would seriously adversely affect our ability to meet these dates and could result in legal action by our customers, loss of customers or harm our ability to attract new customers. Additionally, any unforeseen price increases could reduce our profitability or force us to increase our prices, which could result in a loss of customers or harm our ability to attract new customers. Failure by our strategic partners or by us in integrating products provided by our strategic partners could seriously harm our business. Our solutions include the integration of products supplied by strategic partners, who offer complementary products and services. We rely on these strategic partners in the timely and successful deployment of our solutions to our customers. If the products provided by these partners have defects or do not operate as expected, if the services provided by these partners are not completed in a timely manner, or if we do not effectively integrate and support products supplied by these strategic partners, then we may have difficulty with the deployment of our solutions that may result in: •loss of, or delay in, revenues; •increased service, support and warranty costs and a diversion of development resources; and •network performance penalties. In addition to cooperating with our strategic partners on specific customer projects, we also may compete in some areas with these same partners. If these strategic partners fail to perform or choose not to cooperate with us on certain projects, in addition to the effects described above, we could experience: •loss of customers and market share; and •a failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance for our products. Any investments or acquisitions we make could disrupt our business and seriously harm our financial condition. In addition to investing in organic growth, we will consider other compelling opportunities to deliver greater shareholder value, if and when such opportunities arise. In the event of future investments or acquisitions, we could: •issue stock that would dilute our current stockholders' percentage ownership; •reduce significantly our cash and investments; •incur debt or assume liabilities; •incur significant impairment charges related to the write-off of goodwill and intangible assets; •incur significant amortization expenses related to intangible assets; and/or •incur large and immediate write-offs for in-process research and development and stock-based compensation. 28 Table of Contents Our integration of any acquired products, technologies or businesses could also involve numerous risks, including: •problems and unanticipated costs associated with combining the purchased products, technologies or businesses; •diversion of management's attention from our core business; •adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; •risks associated with entering markets in which we have limited or no prior experience; •potential loss of key employees, particularly those of the acquired organizations; and •integration of internal controls and financial systems. We may be unable to successfully integrate any products, technologies, businesses or personnel that we might acquire in the future without significant costs or disruption to our business. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could negatively impact our financial results and cash flows. Because a portion of our business is conducted outside the United States, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve, and they could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. An increase in the value of the dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the United States where we often sell in dollars, and a weakened dollar could increase the cost of local operating expenses and procurement of raw materials from sources outside the United States. Consolidation in the telecommunications industry could harm our business. The telecommunications industry has experienced consolidation and we expect this trend to continue. Consolidation among our customers may cause delays or reductions in capital expenditure plans and/or increased competitive pricing pressures as the number of available customers declines and their relative purchasing power increases in relation to suppliers. Any of these factors could adversely affect our business. Regulation of the telecommunications industry could harm our operating results and future prospects. The telecommunications industry is highly regulated and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected by the changes in the regulations relating to the telecommunications industry. Currently, there are few laws or regulations that apply directly to access to or delivery of voice services on IP networks. We could be adversely affected by regulation of IP networks and commerce in any country where we operate, including the United States. Such regulations could include matters such as voice over the Internet or using Internet protocol, encryption technology, and access charges for service providers. The adoption of such regulations could decrease demand for our products, and at the same time increase the cost of selling our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial position. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 29 Table of Contents 