D. RISK FACTORS Investing in our ordinary shares involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below before investing in our ordinary shares. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. In that case, the value of our ordinary shares could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business Our quarterly financial performance is likely to vary significantly in the future. Our revenues and operating results in any quarter may not be indicative of our future performance and it may be difficult for investors to evaluate our prospects. Our quarterly revenues and operating results have varied significantly in the past and are likely to continue to vary significantly in the future. Fluctuations in our quarterly financial performance may result from the fact that we may receive a small number of relatively large orders in any given quarter. Because these orders generate disproportionately large revenues, our revenues and the rate of growth of our revenues for that quarter may reach levels that may not be sustained in subsequent quarters. In addition, some of our products have lengthy sales cycles. For example, it typically takes from three to 12 months after we first begin discussions with a prospective customer before we receive an order from that customer. We also have a limited order backlog, which makes revenues in any quarter substantially dependent upon orders we deliver in that quarter. Because of these factors, our revenues and operating results in any quarter may not meet market expectations or be indicative of future performance and it may be difficult for investors to evaluate our prospects. 4 Unless our revenues grow in excess of our increasing expenses, we will not be profitable. We expect that our operating expenses will increase significantly in the future, both to finance the planned expansion of our sales and marketing and research and development activities and to fund the anticipated growth in our revenues. However, our revenues may not grow apace or even continue at their current level. If our revenues do not increase as anticipated or if expenses increase at a greater pace than our revenues, we will not be profitable. Even if we achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If the use of packet-based networks as a medium for real-time voice, video and data communication does not continue to grow, the demand for our products and technology will slow and our revenues will decline. Our future success depends on the growth in the use of packet-based networks, including the Internet and other IP networks, as a medium for real-time voice, video and data communication. If the use of packet-based networks does not expand, the demand for our products and technology will slow and our revenues will decline. Market acceptance of packet-based networks as a viable alternative to circuit-switched networks for the transmission of real-time voice and video communication is not proven and may be inhibited by concerns about quality of service and potentially inadequate development of the necessary infrastructure. We must develop new products and technology and enhancements to existing products and technology to remain competitive. If we fail to do so, we may lose market share to our competitors and our revenues may decline. The market for our products and technology is characterized by rapid technological change, new and improved product introductions, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards. Our future success will depend to a substantial extent on our ability to: · timely identify new market trends; and · develop, introduce and support new and enhanced products and technology on a successful and timely basis. 5 We may not be successful in developing new products and technology and enhancements to our existing products and technology. If we fail to develop and deploy new products and technology or product and technology enhancements on a successful and timely basis, we may lose market share to our competitors and our revenues may decline. We have invested, and will continue to invest, in products and technology that comply with those industry standards that we believe have been, or will be, broadly adopted. If one or more alternative standards were to gain greater acceptance than the standards that we believe have or will be broadly adopted, sales of our products and technology would suffer. Our current suite of IP communication protocol toolkits includes H.323, SIP (session initiation protocol), MGCP (media gateway control protocol) and MEGACO (media gateway control protocol for large-scale IP-centric communication networks). We also support the 3G-324M protocol for real time multimedia services over 3G (Third Generation) networks. If future IP networks are not designed with components built around these protocols, or if one or more alternative protocols were to gain greater acceptance than these protocols, our investments may be of little or no value and sales of our products and technology would suffer. We rely on a small number of marketing partners who distribute our products either under our name or as private label products for a significant portion of our business. We rely in great measure on original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, systems integrators and value added resellers, or VARs, to sell our products. Our OEM customers purchase our products to integrate with products that they developed in-house to build complete IP communication solutions. Our systems integrator customers either purchase our full suite of products or integrate our individual products with those of other manufacturers in order to build complete IP communication solutions. Our VAR customers purchase our products to resell to end-users as separate units, or as part of a family of related product offerings, either under our RADVISION label or under their private label. If we are unable to maintain these marketing partners or obtain new marketing partners, our future revenues and profitability will be affected and we may lose market share. One OEM customer accounted for approximately 27.0% of our sales in both 2005 and 2004 and approximately 21.0% of our sales in 2003. Competition in the markets for our products and technology is intense. We may not be able to compete effectively in these markets and we may lose market share to our competitors. The markets for our products and technology are highly competitive and we expect competition to intensify in the future. The principal competitors in the market for our network infrastructure unit products currently include Polycom Inc., Tandberg and Codian Ltd. The principal competitors in the market for our toolkit business unit products currently include Hughes Software Systems acquired in 2004 by Flextronix Software Systems, DynamicSoft, Dilithium, and in-house developers employed by manufacturers of telecommunication equipment and systems. Additional competitors may enter each of our markets at any time. Moreover, our customers may seek to develop internally the products that we currently sell to them and compete with us. We may not be able to compete effectively in these markets and we may lose market share to our competitors. 6 Major solutions providers who currently work with us might compete with us in the future. We currently provide our technology either directly to or in association with, major solutions providers such as Alcatel, Cisco, Siemens, Aethra and Microsoft. If these providers choose to develop their own technologies, acquire technologies from our competitors, or acquire such competitors, our financial condition and operating results could be adversely impacted and we may face increased levels of competition from these major companies. Our software development kit revenues will decrease if our customers choose to use source code that is available for free. Both Vovida Networks, Inc., a subsidiary of Cisco Systems Inc., and Open H.323 offer H.323 source code for free. In addition, Vovida Networks, Inc. offers MGCP and SIP source code for free. Other companies, including Microsoft, may offer similar development kits as part of their product offerings. If our customers choose to use the free source code offered by any of these organizations instead of purchasing our technology, our revenues from the sale of our software development kits will decline. Some of our competitors have greater resources than we do. This may limit our ability to compete effectively with them and discourage customers from purchasing our products and technology. Some of our competitors have greater financial, personnel and other resources than we do, which may limit our ability to compete effectively with them. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements. These competitors may also: · benefit from greater economies of scale; · offer more aggressive pricing; or · devote greater resources to the promotion of their products. Any of these advantages may discourage customers from purchasing our products and technology. If we are unable to compete successfully against our existing or potential competitors, our revenues and margins will decline. 7 Our agreements with our customers generally do not have minimum purchase requirements. If our customers decrease or cease purchasing our products and technology, our revenues will decline. Our agreements with our customers generally do not have minimum purchase requirements nor do they require our customers to purchase any products from us. If any or all of our customers cease to purchase or reduce their purchases of our products and technology at any time, our revenues will decline. Our customers may choose to independently develop for themselves, or purchase from others, products and technology similar to our products and technology. Moreover, if our customers do not successfully market and sell the systems and products into which they incorporate our products and technology, the demand of these customers for our products and technology will decline. Our customers’ sales of systems and products containing our products and technology may be adversely affected by circumstances over which we have no control and over which our customers may have little, if any, control. We are dependent upon a limited number of suppliers of key components. If these suppliers delay or discontinue manufacture of these components, we may experience delays in shipments, increased costs and cancellation of orders for our products. We currently obtain key components used in the manufacture of our products from a single supplier or from a limited number of suppliers. We do not have long-term supply contracts with our suppliers. Any delays in delivery of or shortages in these components could interrupt and delay manufacturing of our products and result in the cancellation of orders for our products. In addition, these suppliers could discontinue the manufacture or supply of these components at any time. We may not be able to identify and integrate alternative sources of supply in a timely fashion or at all. Any transition to alternate suppliers may result in delays in shipment and increased expenses and may limit our ability to deliver products to our customers. Furthermore, if we are unable to identify an alternative source of supply, we would have to modify our products to use a substitute component, which may cause delays in shipments, increased design and manufacturing costs and increased prices for our products. From time to time we issue irrevocable purchase orders to our suppliers. If market demand for our products declines, we may be required to recognize a provision for expected loss which may have a negative impact on our financial results. We intend to manufacture and maintain an inventory of customized products for some customers who will have no obligation to purchase these products. If these customers fail to purchase these products, our financial results may be harmed. To satisfy the timing requirements of some of our larger customers, we intend to manufacture and maintain an inventory of some of our products that we will customize to the specifications of these customers. The size of this inventory will be based upon the purchasing history and forecasts of these customers, which we currently estimate to be approximately two months of sales to these customers. These customers will have no obligation to purchase the inventoried products at any time. If the customers for whom the inventoried products are manufactured do not purchase them, we may be required to modify the products for sale to others and we may be unable to find other purchasers. In either case, the value of the products may be materially diminished which may have a negative impact on our financial results. 8 We provide 3G-324M-based solutions to both service providers and equipment developers. If our 3G customers move to all IP networks the demand for these products will end. The 3G-324M protocol is a circuit switched protocol for delivering real-time services (video primarily) over 3G mobile networks. This is a strong market both for our service provider gateways and our TBU developer toolkits. However, we believe that the 3G-324M will only be used until an all-IP broadband mobile 3G network can sustain high quality, high bandwidth services. This is not expected to happen for a few years. As technology for real-time IP communications gains acceptance, service providers are expected to gradually move to all-IP architecture, so will no longer need our 3G-324M gateway. As service providers move to all-IP networks, our telecom equipment developer customers will no longer need to develop 3G-324M-based devices and sales of our 3G-324M toolkits would be adversely affected. We may encounter difficulties in realizing the potential financial or strategic benefits of our acquisition of the assets of First Virtual Communications, Inc. Following a bidding process held on February 28, 2005, under the supervision of a United States Bankruptcy Court, we acquired substantially all of the assets of First Virtual Communications, Inc, or FVC, and its wholly owned subsidiary, CUseeMe Networks, Inc. The transaction provided for a cash purchase price of $7,150,000 plus additional consideration in the form of assumption of certain costs. This acquisition presents risks commonly encountered in the acquisition of businesses, including: · difficulty in combining technology, operations or workforce of the acquired business; · adverse effects on our reported operating results due to the amortization of intangibles associated with acquisitions; · diversion of management attention from running our existing business; and · increased expenses, including compensation expenses resulting from newly-hired employees. Consequently, our investment in the assets of FVC may not prove to be successful. 9 Undetected errors may increase our costs and impair the market acceptance of our products and technology. Our products and technology have occasionally contained, and may in the future contain, undetected errors when first introduced or when new versions are released. Our customers integrate our products and technology into systems and products that they develop themselves or acquire from other vendors. As a result, when problems occur in equipment or a system into which our products or technology have been incorporated, it may be difficult to identify the cause of the problem. Regardless of the source of these errors, we must divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our research and development efforts to address the errors. We may incur warranty or repair costs, be subject to liability claims for damages related to product errors or experience delays as a result of these errors in the future. Any insurance policies that we may have, may not provide sufficient protection or coverage should a claim be asserted. Moreover, the occurrence of errors, whether caused by our products or technology or the products of another vendor, may result in significant customer relations problems and injury to our reputation and may impair the market acceptance of our products and technology. We rely on third party technology and licenses. If we are unable to continue to license or purchase this technology on reasonable terms, we may face delays in releases of our products and may be required to reduce the functionality of our products derived from this technology. We rely on technology that we license or procure from third parties, including software that is integrated with internally developed software and used in our products to perform key functions. For example, we license T.120 data collaboration software from Data Connection Limited and voice compression technology from Siemens. If we are unable to continue to license any of this software on commercially reasonable terms or otherwise obtain the technology, we will face delays in releases of our products or will be required to reduce the functionality of our products until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed or developed, and integrated into our current products. Our products may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, which could increase our costs and negatively affect our profitability. Third parties have asserted in the past and may assert in the future against us infringement claims or claims that we have infringed a patent, copyright, trademark or other proprietary right belonging to them. Some of these third parties have offered to license their intellectual property to our company. See Item. 8A. Financial Information - Legal Proceedings.” Any infringement claim, even if not meritorious, could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources and could negatively affect our profitability. If there is a successful claim of product infringement against us and we are not able to license the infringed or similar technology, our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. 10 Third parties may infringe upon or misappropriate our intellectual property, which could impair our ability to compete effectively and negatively affect our profitability. Our success depends upon the protection of our technology, trade secrets and trademarks. Our profitability could suffer if third parties infringe upon our intellectual property rights or misappropriate our technology and other assets or the intellectual property rights licensed from third parties. To protect our rights to our intellectual property, we rely on a combination of trade secret protection, trademark law, confidentiality agreements and other contractual arrangements. We rely on third parties to protect their intellectual property which is licensed to us, but we do not generally investigate to what extent such intellectual property is protected. The protective steps we have taken may be inadequate to deter infringement or misappropriation. We may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of our intellectual property or take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. Policing unauthorized use of our products and technology is difficult. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries in which we currently sell or may in the future sell our products do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States. Failure to adequately protect or to promptly detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property could devalue our proprietary content and impair our ability to compete effectively. Further, defending our intellectual property rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources, whether or not the defense is successful. We are dependent on our senior management. Any loss of the services of our senior management could negatively affect our business. Our future success depends to a large extent on the continued services of our senior management and key personnel. We do not carry key-man life insurance for any of our senior management. Any loss of the services of members of our senior management or other key personnel could negatively affect our business. Our failure to retain and attract personnel could harm our business, operations and product development efforts. Our products require sophisticated research and development, marketing and sales, and technical customer support. Our success depends on our ability to attract, train and retain qualified research and development, marketing and sales and technical customer support personnel. We intend to increase substantially the number of our employees who perform these functions. Competition for personnel in all of these areas is intense and we may not be able to hire sufficient personnel to achieve our goals or support the anticipated growth in our business. The market for the highly-trained personnel we require is very competitive, due to the limited number of people available with the necessary technical skills and understanding of our products and technology. If we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business, operations and product development efforts would suffer. Our non-competition agreements with our employees may not be enforceable. If any of these employees leaves us and joins a competitor, our competitor could benefit from the expertise our former employee gained while working for us. We currently have non-competition agreements with our key employees in Israel. These agreements prohibit those employees, if they cease to work for us, from directly competing with us or working for our competitors. Under current U.S. and Israeli law, we may not be able to enforce these non-competition agreements. If we are unable to enforce any of these agreements, our competitors that employ our former employees could benefit from the expertise our former employees gained while working for us. In addition, we have non-competition agreements with only a limited number of employees outside of Israel, and we can not guarantee that such agreements are enforceable under applicable law. 11 Government regulation could delay or prevent product offerings, resulting in decreased revenues. Our products are designed to operate with local telephone systems throughout the world and therefore must comply with the regulations of the Federal Communication Commission and other regulations affecting the transmission of voice, video and data over telecommunication and other media. Each time we introduce a new product, we are required to obtain regulatory approval in the countries in which it is offered. In addition, we must periodically obtain renewals of the regulatory approvals for the use of our products in countries where we have already obtained approval. We cannot assure you that regulatory approval for our current products will be renewed or that regulatory approval for future products will be obtained. If we do not obtain the necessary approvals and renewals, we may be required to delay the sales of our products in those countries until approval for use is granted or renewed. This could result in decreased revenues. We are also subject to laws relating to the use and disposal of hazardous materials in electrical and electronic equipment. For example, in January 2005, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union adopted The Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Regulations 2005, which restrict the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment effective as of July 1, 2006. We are in the process of complying with these regulations. If we are unable to timely comply with these new regulations, we may be denied the ability to sell our products in the European Union. This could result in decreased revenues, inventory write-offs and write-down provisions. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. As a result of certain corporate governance scandals and the legislative and litigation environment resulting from those scandals, the costs of being a public company in general have increased in recent years. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires changes in some of our corporate governance and securities disclosure or compliance practices. We expect that the on-going implementation of these regulations will further increase our legal compliance costs and will make some activities more time consuming. We are presently evaluating and monitoring regulatory developments and cannot estimate the magnitude of additional costs we may incur as a result of such developments. 12 The implementation of SFAS No. 123(R) will require us to record compensation expense in connection with equity share based compensation as of the first quarter of 2006 and will reduce our profitability. On December 16, 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued Statement No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment, or SFAS No. 123(R), which is a revision of SFAS No. 123. Generally, the approach in SFAS No. 123(R) is similar to the approach described in SFAS No. 123. However, SFAS No. 123 permitted, but did not require, share-based payments to employees, including employee stock option grants, to be recognized on the basis of their fair values while SFAS No. 123(R) requires, as of the first quarter of 2006, all share-based payments to employees to be recognized on the basis of their fair values. SFAS No. 123(R) also revises, clarifies and expands guidance in several areas, including measuring fair value, classifying an award as equity or as a liability and attributing compensation cost to reporting periods. The adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) may have a significant effect on our results of operations in the future. In addition, such adoption could limit our ability to use stock options as an incentive and retention tool, which could, in turn, negatively impact our ability to recruit employees and retain existing employees. Had we adopted SFAS 123(R) in 2005, the impact of that standard would have decreased our net income by approximately $3.7 million, as described in the disclosure of pro forma net income and earnings per share in our consolidated financial statements. In order to mitigate the impact of SFAS 123(R) in 2006, our Board of Directors has resolved to increase the available employee option pool under the 2000 Employee Stock Option Plan by 1.75% of our outstanding shares for 2006, as compared to an increase by 3.3% of our outstanding shares for 2005. Risks Relating to Our Ordinary Shares Holders of our ordinary shares who are United States residents face income tax risks. There is a risk that we will be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC. Our treatment as a PFIC could result in a reduction in the after-tax return to the holders of our ordinary shares and would likely cause a reduction in the value of such shares. For U.S. Federal income tax purposes, we will be classified as a PFIC for any taxable year in which either (i) 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or (ii) at least 50% of the average value of all of our assets for the taxable year produce or are held for the production of passive income. For this purpose, passive income includes dividends, interest, royalties, rents, annuities and the excess of gains over losses from the disposition of assets that produce passive income. If we were determined to be a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, highly complex rules would apply to U.S. Holders owning ordinary shares. Accordingly, you are urged to consult your tax advisors regarding the application of such rules. As a result of our substantial cash position, if the value of our shares declines, there is a substantial risk that we will be classified as a PFIC under the asset test described in the preceding paragraph. We believe that we were not deemed to be classified as a PFIC in prior years. However, the U.S. Internal Revenue Services may not accept this determination and there can be no assurance that we will not be classified as a PFIC in the future. We believe that our ordinary shares should not be treated as stock of a passive foreign investment company for United States federal income tax purposes, but this conclusion is a factual determination made annually and may be subject to change. We advise each of our investors to consult with a tax advisor. 13 United States residents should carefully read “Item 10E. Additional Information - Taxation, United States Federal Income Tax Consequences” for a more complete discussion of the U.S. federal income tax risks related to owning and disposing of our ordinary shares. Our share price has been volatile in the past and may decline in the future. Our ordinary shares have experienced significant market price and volume fluctuations in the past and may experience significant market price and volume fluctuations in the future in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: · quarterly variations in our operating results; · operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; · changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; · announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; · announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · changes in the status of our intellectual property rights; · announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us; · additions or departures of key personnel; · future sales of our ordinary shares; and · stock market price, competitor’s performances and volume fluctuations. Domestic and international stock markets often experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. Market fluctuations, as well as general political and economic conditions, such as a recession or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations or political events or hostilities in or surrounding Israel, could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. In the past, securities class action litigation has been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We could potentially in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources. 14 Our ordinary shares are traded on more than one market and this may result in price variations. Our ordinary shares are traded on the NASDAQ National Market and on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange. Trading in our ordinary shares on these markets is made in different currencies (dollars on the NASDAQ National Market and NIS on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange), and at different times (resulting from different time zones, different trading days and different public holidays in the United States and Israel). Consequently, the trading prices of our ordinary shares on these two markets often differ. Any decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on one of these markets could cause a decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on the other market. Risks Relating to Our Location in Israel Conducting business in Israel entails special risks. We are incorporated under the laws of Israel, and most of our offices and our production facilities are located in the State of Israel. As a result, the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel directly influence us. Any major hostilities involving Israel, a full or partial mobilization of the reserve forces of the Israeli army, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors, and a state of hostility, varying from time to time in intensity and degree, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Since September 2000, there has been a marked increase in violence, civil unrest and hostility, including armed clashes, between the State of Israel and the Palestinians, and acts of terror have been committed inside Israel and against Israeli targets in the West Bank and Gaza. These developments have adversely affected the regional peace process, placed the Israeli economy under significant stress, and have negatively influenced Israel’s relationship with several Arab countries. In August 2005, Israel evacuated all Israeli settlements in the Gaza Strip and four settlements in the West Bank. In August 2005, Israel evacuated all Israeli settlements in the Gaza Strip and four settlements in the West Bank. In January 2006, Hamas won the elections in the Palestinian Authority and on March 28, 2006, elections to the Israeli parliament were held in Israel. The implications of these developments cannot at this time be foreseen. Any future armed conflict, political instability or violence in the region may have a negative effect on our business condition, harm our results of operations and adversely affect our share price. 15 Furthermore, there are a number of countries, primarily in the Middle East, as well as Malaysia and Indonesia, that restrict business with Israel or Israeli companies, and we are precluded from marketing our products to these countries. Restrictive laws or policies directed towards Israel or Israeli businesses may have an adverse impact on our operations, our financial results or the expansion of our business. No predictions can be made as to whether or when a final resolution of the area’s problems will be achieved or the nature thereof and to what extent the situation will impact Israel’s economic development or our operations. Political trade relations could limit our ability to sell or buy internationally. We could be adversely affected by the interruption or reduction of trade between Israel and its trading partners. Some countries, companies and organizations continue to participate in a boycott of Israeli firms and others doing business with Israel or with Israeli companies. To date, these measures have not had a material adverse affect on our business. However, there can be no assurance that restrictive laws, policies or practices towards Israel or Israeli businesses will not have an adverse impact on our business. Our results of operations may be negatively affected by the obligation of our personnel to perform military service. Many of our directors, officers and employees in Israel are obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the Israeli Defense Forces and may be called for active duty under emergency circumstances at any time. If a military conflict or war arises, these individuals could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our executive officers or key employees or a significant number of other employees due to military service. Any disruption in our operations could adversely affect our business. Because most of our revenues are generated in dollars or are linked to the dollar while a portion of our expenses are incurred in NIS, our results of operations would be adversely affected if inflation in Israel is not offset on a timely basis by a devaluation of the new Israeli shekel against the dollar. Most of our revenues are in dollars or are linked to the dollar, while a portion of our expenses, principally salaries and the related personnel expenses, are in NIS. As a result, we are exposed to the risk that the rate of inflation in Israel will exceed the rate of devaluation of the NIS in relation to the dollar or that the timing of this devaluation lags behind inflation in Israel. This would have the effect of increasing the dollar cost of our operations. Over time, the NIS has been devalued against foreign currencies, generally reflecting inflation rate differentials. We cannot predict any future trends in the rate of inflation in Israel or the rate of devaluation of the NIS against the dollar. If the dollar cost of our operations in Israel increases, our dollar-measured results of operations will be adversely affected. 16 The tax benefits from our approved enterprise programs require us to satisfy specified conditions. If we fail to satisfy these conditions, we may be required to pay additional taxes and would likely be denied these benefits in the future. The Investment Center of the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor of the State of Israel has granted approved enterprise status to several investment programs at our manufacturing facility. The portion of our income derived from our approved enterprise programs, commencing when we begin to generate net income from these programs, will be exempt from tax for a period of two years and will be subject to a reduced tax rate for an additional five to eight years, depending on the percentage of our share capital held by non-Israelis. The benefits available to an approved enterprise program are dependent upon the fulfillment of conditions stipulated in applicable law and in the certificate of approval. If we fail to comply with these conditions, in whole or in part, we may be required to pay additional taxes during the period in which we would have benefited from the tax exemption or reduced tax rates and would likely be denied these benefits in the future. Service and enforcement of legal process on us and our directors and officers may be difficult to obtain. Service of process upon our directors and officers and the Israeli experts named herein, most of whom reside outside the United States, may be difficult to obtain within the United States. Furthermore, since substantially most our assets, our directors and officers and the Israeli experts named in this annual report are located outside the United States, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or these individuals or entities may not be collectible within the United States. There is doubt as to the enforceability of civil liabilities under the Securities Act and the Securities Exchange Act in original actions instituted in Israel. However, subject to certain time limitations and other conditions, Israeli courts may enforce final judgments of United States courts for liquidated amounts in civil matters, including judgments based upon the civil liability provisions of those Acts. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of us, which could prevent a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. Provisions of Israeli corporate and tax law may have the effect of delaying, preventing or making more difficult a merger with, or other acquisition of, us. This could cause our ordinary shares to trade at prices below the price for which third parties might be willing to pay to gain control of us. Third parties who are otherwise willing to pay a premium over prevailing market prices to gain control of us may be unable or unwilling to do so because of these provisions of Israeli law. 17 The rights and responsibilities of our shareholders are governed by Israeli law and differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law. We are incorporated under Israeli law. The rights and responsibilities of holders of our ordinary shares are governed by our memorandum of association, articles of association and by Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations. In particular, each shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith in exercising his or her rights and fulfilling his or her obligations toward the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing his power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders on certain matters. Israeli law provides that these duties are applicable in shareholder votes on, among other things, amendments to a company’s articles of association, increases in a company’s authorized share capital, mergers and interested party transactions requiring shareholder approval. In addition, a controlling shareholder of an Israeli company or a shareholder who knows that it possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholder vote or who has the power to appoint or prevent the appointment of a director or officer in the company has a duty of fairness toward the company. However, Israeli law does not define the substance of this duty of fairness. Because Israeli corporate law has undergone extensive revision in recent years, there is little case law available to assist in understanding the implications of these provisions that govern shareholder behavior. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ National Market, we may follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain NASDAQ requirements. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ National Market, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain requirements of the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules, including the composition of our Board of Directors, director nomination procedure, compensation of officers, distribution of annual reports to shareholders and quorum at shareholders meetings. In addition, we may follow Israeli law instead of the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules that require that we obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive events, such as for the establishment or amendment of certain equity based compensation plans, an issuance that will result in a change of control of our company, certain transactions other than a public offering involving issuances of a 20% or more interest in our company and certain acquisitions of the stock or assets of another company. ITEM 