D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and Industries We may not be successful in operating and improving our existing online games to satisfy the changing demands and preferences of players The level of demand and market acceptance of our existing online games is subject to a high degree of uncertainty. Our future operating results will depend on numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • the popularity of existing and new online games operated by us; • the introduction of new online games by us or third parties, competing with or replacing our existing online games; • general economic conditions, particularly economic conditions adversely affecting discretionary consumer spending; • changes in our customer demands and preferences; • regulatory and other risks associated with our operations in Taiwan and Hong Kong; • the availability of other forms of entertainment; and • critical reviews and public tastes and preferences, all of which change rapidly and cannot be predicted. Our ability to plan for product development and distribution and promotional activities will be significantly affected by how well we anticipate and adapt to relatively rapid changes in consumer tastes and preferences. Currently, a substantial portion of our online games revenue is derived from revenues from our online MahJong games and other casual games offered in Taiwan and Hong Kong by FunTown and from two licensed massively multi-player online (“MMO”) games, A.V.A. and Tales Runner. However, there is no assurance that these games will continue to be popular. A decline in the popularity of these games, or in the popularity of online games in general, is likely to adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. To maintain competitiveness of our games, we must regularly invest in enhancing, improving, expanding or upgrading our games. If we fail to do so, revenues generated from our existing games will likely decline. In operating our Asian online game and service business, we may fail to launch new games according to our timetable, and our new games may not be commercially successful In order for our Asian online game and service business strategy to succeed over time, we will need to license, acquire or develop new online games that can generate additional revenue and further diversify our revenue sources. A number of factors, including technical difficulties, government approvals and game licenses required for launching new games, lack of sufficient game development personnel and other resources, and adverse developments in our relationship with the licensors of our new licensed games could result in delay in launching our new games. Therefore, we cannot assure you that we will be able to meet our timetable for new game launches. There are many factors that may adversely affect the popularity of our new games. For example, we may fail to anticipate and adapt to future technical trends and new business models, fail to satisfy game player preferences and requirements, fail to effectively plan and organize marketing and promotion activities, fail to effectively detect and prevent programming errors or defects in the games, and fail to operate our new games at acceptable costs. We cannot assure you that our new games will gain market acceptance and become commercially successful. If we are not able to license, develop or acquire additional online games that are commercially successful, our future revenues and profitability may decline. 6 Table of Contents Due to increased competition among online games operators in Greater China, license fees for online games have increased and most licensors are demanding upfront license fees and guaranteed minimum royalty payments. If any of the new games we license from third parties fails to appeal to players, we may not be able to fully recover upfront and/or minimum royalty licensing costs, which can be significant. As a result, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Failure to maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and the trading price of our Shares Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and effectively prevent fraud, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to reporting requirements under the U.S. securities laws. The SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, has adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on such company’s internal control over financial reporting in its annual report, which must contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of such company’s internal control over financial reporting. In making such assessment, our management also used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control-Integrated Framework. Our management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and concluded that as of December 31, 2012, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective in providing reasonable assurance, that information required to be disclosed by us, in the reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act, was recorded, processed, summarized and reported on a timely basis, and these controls and procedures were effective in ensuring that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act was accumulated and communicated to our management as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. In the Company’s 2010 Annual Report on Form 20-F, the Company reported a material weakness, having found there were inadequate controls in place to address risks related to usurpation of established policies, procedures and control systems related to T2CN. As reported in the Company’s 2011 Annual Report on Form 20-F, the Company has undertaken and completed, as appropriate, its testing to validate the effective implementation of certain remedial measures. The Company has also undertaken testing which validates the effective operation of these controls, for a sufficient period of time, to support its conclusion. In reviewing the results from this testing, management has concluded that the material weakness in internal control over financial reporting we previously reported has been remediated as of December 31, 2011. We have completed our Section 404 assessment under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and received our auditors’ attestation as of December 31, 2012. The report of our independent registered public accounting firm includes an opinion regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. However, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 7 Table of Contents Our failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our Shares. Furthermore, we may incur additional costs and use significant management and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act going forward. Our results of operations are subject to significant fluctuations Our revenues, expenses and results of operations have varied in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. The key factors affecting our businesses include: • Asian online game and service business: our ability to retain existing users; attract new users and maintain user satisfaction; the pace of rolling out new games or updating existing games by us or our competitors; the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to our business operations and expansion; seasonal trends in Internet use; price competition in the industry; regulatory and other risks associated from our operations in Taiwan and Hong Kong. • Cloud computing business: global economic conditions and general economic conditions of the markets that GigaCloud targets; the availability of the Internet infrastructure; and the technological and other competition from existing and new competitors, our ability to attract new users and maintain user satisfaction; the pace of rolling out new products and services or updating existing offerings by us or our competitors; the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to our business operations and expansion; and regulatory risks associated with our operations in Greater China. In addition, our operating expenses are based on our expectations of the future demand for our services and are relatively fixed in the short term. We may be unable to adjust spending quickly enough to offset any unexpected demand shortfall. A decrease in revenues in relation to our expenses could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. You should not place undue reliance on our financial guidance, nor should you rely on year-to-year or quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as indicators of our future performance. Our business strategy, which contemplates growth through acquisitions and strategic investments, exposes us to significant risks We have pursued and may continue to pursue growth through acquisitions and strategic investments. Any acquisition or investment is subject to a number of risks. Such risks include the diversion of management time and resources, disruption of our ongoing business, lack of familiarity with new markets, difficulties in supporting the acquired business, and dilution to existing stockholders if our common stock is issued in consideration for an acquisition or investment, incurring or assuming indebtedness or other liabilities in connection with an acquisition. We entered into multiple strategic alliances in the past and later recorded related impairment losses on investments and goodwill. We may incur debts in the future upon an acquisition or suffer losses related to impairment of these investments. Any impairment on goodwill and marketable securities and investments in the future may have a negative impact on our financial results. We will continue to examine the merits, risks and feasibility of potential transactions, and expect to explore additional acquisition opportunities in the future. Such examination and exploration efforts, and any related discussions with third parties, may or may not lead to future acquisitions and investments. We may not be able to complete acquiring or investing transactions that we initiate. Our ability to grow through such acquisitions and investments will depend on many factors, including the availability of suitable acquisition candidates at an acceptable cost, our ability to reach agreement with acquisition candidates or investee companies on commercially reasonable terms, the availability of financing to complete transactions and our ability to obtain any required governmental approvals. We also face challenges in integrating any acquired business. These challenges include eliminating redundant operations, facilities and systems, coordinating management and personnel, retaining key employees, managing different corporate cultures, maintaining the relationship with the suppliers, vendors and/or distributors of acquired businesses, and achieving cost reductions and cross-selling opportunities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate all aspects of acquired businesses. The process of integrating the acquired business may disrupt our business and divert our resources. In addition, the benefits of an acquisition or investment transaction may take considerable time to be fully realized and we cannot assure you that any particular acquisition or investment and the subsequent integration will produce the intended benefits. The online games market is characterized by rapid technological change, and failure to respond quickly and effectively to new Internet technologies or standards may have a material adverse effect on our business The online games industry is evolving rapidly. Any new technologies and new standards may require increases in expenditures for online game development and operations. In addition, we use internally developed software systems that support nearly all aspects of our billing and payment transactions in our Asian online game and service business. All of our businesses may be adversely affected if we are unable to upgrade our systems effectively to accommodate future traffic levels, to avoid obsolescence or to successfully integrate any newly developed or acquired technology with our existing systems. Capacity constraints could cause unanticipated system disruptions and slower responses, which could adversely affect data transmission and game play. These factors could, among other things, cause us to lose existing or potential users and existing or potential game development partners. 8 Table of Contents Our business could suffer if we do not successfully manage current growth and potential future growth We are pursuing a number of growth strategies. Some of these strategies relate to services, products or markets in which we lack experience and expertise. Anticipated expansion of our operations will place a significant strain on our management, operation systems and resources. In addition to training and managing our workforce, we will need to continue to develop and improve our financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures, including those of acquired businesses. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively manage the growth of our operations, and any failure to do so may limit our future growth and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We recorded net and operating losses in past years, and we may experience losses in the future In 2010, 2011 and 2012, we recorded operating losses of US$47.7 million, US$24.1 million and US$7.9 million, as well as net income of $2.7 million, a net loss of $71.2 million, and a net loss of $15.3 million, respectively. Our future profitability will depend to a great extent upon the performance of our Asian online game and service business and the GigaCloud cloud computing business. We cannot assure you that we will not experience operating or net losses in future periods. Our Asian online game and service business faces intense competition, which may adversely affect our revenues, profitability and planned business expansion The online games market is highly competitive. Online casual game operators in Greater China are currently our primary competitors. We also compete with massively multi-player online role-playing game (“MMORPG”) operators throughout Greater China. Our major competitors in Taiwan include Gamania Digital Entertainment Co., Ltd. (“Gamania”), Soft-World International Corporation (“Soft-World”), International Games System, Co., Ltd. (“IGS”), UserJoy Technology Co., Ltd. (“UserJoy”) and GodGame Inc. (“GodGame”). Our major competitors in the PRC include Shanda Interactive Entertainment Ltd. (“Shanda”), Giant Interactive Group, Inc. (“Giant”), Changyou.com Limited (“Changyou”), The9 Limited, Shanghai Everstar Online Entertainment Co., Ltd. (“Nineyou”), Tencent Holdings Limited (“Tencent”), Perfect World Co., Ltd. (“Perfect World”), Kingsoft Corporation Limited (“Kingsoft”), Beijing Globalink Computer Technology Co., Ltd.(“Ourgames.com”) and Chinagames.net. In addition, we compete for users against various offline games, such as console games, arcade games and handheld games, as well as various other forms of traditional or online entertainment. We expect more online games operating companies to enter the markets where we operate in Greater China, and a wider range of online games to be introduced to these markets, given the relatively low entry barriers to the online games industry and the increasing popularity of Internet-based businesses. Our competitors vary in size and include private and public companies, many of which have greater financial, marketing and technical resources as well as name brand recognition. We intend to continue to enhance our market position through providing competitive products and quality services that meet market trends and users’ preferences, as well as strengthening sales effectiveness. As a result of the above, significant competition may reduce the number of our users or the growth rate of our user base, reduce the average number of hours played by our users, or cause us to reduce usage fees. All of these competitive factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Asian online game and service business depends on the reliability of the network infrastructure and related services provided by ourselves and third parties, which is subject to physical, technological, security and other risks The development and operation of our online networks are subject to physical, technological, security and other risks which may result in interruption in service or reduced capacity. These risks include physical damage, power loss, telecommunications failure, capacity limitation, hardware or software failures or defects and breaches of physical and cybersecurity by computer viruses, system break-ins or otherwise. An increase in the volume of usage of online services could strain the capacity of the software and hardware employed, which could result in slower response time or system failures. We have a variety of backup servers at our primary site to deal with possible system failures. However, we do not have redundant facilities in the event of an emergency. The occurrence of any of these events could result in interruptions, delays or cessation in service to users of our online services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. While we have implemented industry-standard physical and cybersecurity measures, our network may still be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, denial of service and other disruptive problems. Our Internet-based services may be interrupted as a result of the accidental or intentional actions of Internet users, our current and former employees or others. A party that is able to circumvent security measures could misappropriate proprietary information, attack our security and network system, and, perhaps, most importantly, cause interruptions in our operations. We have experienced in the past, and may experience in the future, security breaches and attacks. We may be required to expend significant capital or other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches and attacks or to alleviate problems caused by such actions. There can be no assurance that any measures implemented will not be circumvented in the future. Furthermore, a successful security breach or attack may lead us to incur substantial costs to repair damage or restore data, implement substantial organizational changes and training to prevent future similar attacks and lost revenues and litigation costs due to misused sensitive information, and cause substantial reputational damage. 9 Table of Contents Our business is also vulnerable to delays or interruptions due to our reliance on infrastructure and related services provided by third parties. End-users of our offerings depend on ISPs and our system infrastructure for access to the Internet games and services we offer. Some of these services have experienced service outages in the past and could experience service outages, delays and other difficulties due to system failures, stability or interruption. For example, in February 2007, an earthquake off the coast of Taiwan, and in March 2011 an earthquake off the north-east coast of Japan, damaged several undersea fiber optic cables linking countries such as Malaysia, Singapore, Australia, Japan, South Korea, China, the United States and Europe, causing disruptions in Internet traffic worldwide. We may lose customers as a result of delays or interruption in service, including delays or interruptions relating to high volumes of traffic or technological problems, which may prevent communication over the Internet and could materially adversely affect our business, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Any failure to maintain a stable and efficient distribution and payment network could have a material and adverse impact on our Asian online game and service business, financial condition and results of operations Our Asian online game and service business operation relies heavily on a multi-layer distribution and payment network composed of third-party distributors for our sales to, and collection of payment from, our users. As we do not enter into long-term agreements with any of our distributors, we cannot assure you that we will continue to maintain favorable relationships with them. If we fail to maintain a stable and efficient distribution and payment network, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, our ability to process electronic commerce transactions depends on bank processing and credit card systems. In order to prepare for certain types of system problems, we have a formal disaster recovery plan. Nevertheless, any system failure, including network, software or hardware failure, which causes a delay or interruption in our e-commerce services could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. We could be liable for breaches of security on our websites and fraudulent transactions by users of our websites A portion of our transactions are conducted through our websites. In such transactions, secured transmission of confidential information (such as customers’ credit card numbers and expiration dates, personal information and billing addresses) over public networks is essential to maintain consumer confidence. In addition, we may face internal fraud, including potential unauthorized usage of customer credit card information by our employees. While we are not aware of any breaches of security on our websites having occurred and we have taken steps to prevent this, including the implementation of payment card industry data security standards, our current security measures may not be adequate. Security breaches could expose us to litigation and possible liability for failing to secure confidential customer information and could harm our reputation and ability to attract and retain customers. Undetected programming errors or defects in our software, services and games and the proliferation of cheating programs could materially and adversely affect our Asian online game and service business and the cloud computing business, financial condition and results of operations Our online games and cloud computing software and services may contain undetected programming errors or other defects. These errors or other defects could damage our reputation and subject us to liability. As to online games, parties unrelated to us may develop cheating programs that enable users to acquire superior features for their game characters that they would not have otherwise. Furthermore, certain cheating programs could cause the loss of a character’s superior features acquired by a user. The occurrence of undetected errors or defects in our games, and our failure to discover and disable cheating programs affecting the fairness of our game environment, could disrupt our operations, damage our reputation and detract from the game experience of our users. As a result, such errors, defects and cheating programs could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If such errors, defects and cheating programs occur in software, services and games we operate, our business operations and, in turn, our business and financial condition, could be materially and adversely affected. Operation of pirate game servers and the expenses incurred in protecting our Asian online game and service business operation against unlawful operations through pirate servers may adversely affect our business We face challenges from pirate game servers, which are game servers that operate unauthorized copies of our online games and permit users to play those games without purchasing pre-paid game cards from us. The existence of unauthorized servers may attract game players away from our games and may result in decreases in our revenues. Although we have made efforts to detect and shutdown pirate servers in Greater China, we cannot assure you that such efforts will be successful in eliminating these unauthorized servers. In addition, detailed comparisons of software codes and litigation proceedings are often necessary to enforce the intellectual property rights, whether owned by or licensed by us, which sometimes result in substantial costs. The continued illegal operation of any of our existing games by pirate game servers, or the illegal operation of any of our new games by pirate servers, may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents We may be subject to claims of intellectual property right infringement by third parties, which could subject us to significant liabilities and other costs Our success depends largely on our ability to use and develop our technology and know-how without infringing upon the intellectual property rights of third parties. We cannot ensure that third parties will not assert intellectual property claims against us. The validity and scope of claims relating to the intellectual property may involve complex scientific, legal and factual questions and analysis, and tend to be uncertain. If third parties assert copyright or patent infringement or violation of other intellectual property rights against us, we have to defend ourselves in legal or administrative proceedings, which can be costly and time consuming and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our technical and management personnel. An adverse determination in any such proceedings to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liability to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties, and prevent us from selling our products and services. The imposition of liabilities that are not covered by insurance, in excess of insurance coverage or for which we are not indemnified by a content provider, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may need to incur significant expenses to protect our intellectual property rights, and if we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be harmed We regard our copyrights, service marks, trademarks, trade secrets, patents and other intellectual property as critical to our success. We rely on a combination of copyright and trademark laws, trade secret protection, confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements, and other contractual provisions to protect our proprietary software, trade secrets and similar intellectual property. We have patents, copyrights and trademarks in certain jurisdictions and may apply for further trademark and copyright registrations and additional patents, which may provide such protection in relevant jurisdictions. However, we cannot assure you that our efforts will prove to be sufficient or that third parties will not infringe upon or misappropriate our proprietary rights. Unauthorized use of the intellectual property, whether owned by or licensed to us, could adversely affect our business and reputation. The validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property in Internet-related industries are evolving, and therefore, uncertain. In particular, the laws and enforcement procedures of the PRC, Taiwan, and Hong Kong are uncertain or do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws and enforcement procedures of the United States do. We may have to engage in litigation or other legal proceedings to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future results of operations or the growth of our business may suffer if we are unable to maintain satisfactory relationships with the licensors of our online games While we are focused on self-development of casual games, we have historically and may in the future source casual games, advanced casual games and MMOs through licensing from developers in various regions where online game development is relatively established. As of the date of this annual report, we have four licensed MMOs in our online game portfolio, including the games we currently offer and the games in the pipeline. We need to maintain stable and satisfactory working relationships with our licensors in order to ensure the continued operation of our licensed online games and our continued access to new online game licenses. We depend on our licensors to provide the necessary technical support for the operation of the licensed games as well as expansion packs and upgrades that sustain continuing interest in the games. Our ability to maintain satisfactory working relationships with our licensors may also influence our ability to license new online games developed by the same or other licensors. If we are unable to maintain satisfactory relationships with our licensors, our financial condition, results of operations, future profitability and growth prospects may be materially and adversely affected. We may need additional capital in the future, and it may not be available on acceptable terms The development of our business may require significant additional capital in the future to: • fund our operations; • enhance and expand the range of products and services we offer; and • respond to competitive pressures and perceived opportunities, such as investment, acquisition and international expansion activities. 11 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us, if at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be forced to curtail or cease our operations. Moreover, even if we are able to continue our operations, any failure to obtain additional financing could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and we may need to delay the deployment of our services. See Item 5, “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — B. Liquidity and Capital Resources.” We have had significant turnover in our management team and additional turnover could harm our business The success of our business is heavily dependent upon the services of our management team and other key personnel. We have experienced substantial turnover among members of our board of directors and senior management team in the past year. Further turnover of directors, senior management or key personnel could harm our business. Furthermore, we must successfully integrate all new management and other key personnel into our organization to achieve our operating objectives; failure to do so could adversely affect our business. Our results of operations and financial condition are affected by political stability, as well as the occurrence of natural disasters and epidemics We operate our Asian online game and service business in Greater China. Political unrest, war, acts of terrorism and other instability, as well as natural disasters such as earthquakes and typhoons which are common in Greater China, can result in disruption to our business or the businesses of our customers. Our business could be adversely affected by natural disasters and the effects of influenza A virus subtypes, such as H1N1 and H5N1, SARS or other epidemics. Any prolonged recurrence of such adverse public health developments in the regions where we operate may have material adverse effects on our business operations. These could include illness and loss of our management and key employees. Natural disasters or outbreak of epidemics may result in a decrease in economic activities or temporary closure of many businesses and disruption in our operations. In addition, other major natural disasters may also adversely affect our business by, for example, causing disruptions of the Internet network or otherwise affecting access to our games. We have a limited operating history in providing cloud computing services, which makes it difficult to predict our future operating results We introduced our first cloud computing services in early April 2013. As a result of our limited operating history, our ability to forecast our future operating results is limited and subject to a number of uncertainties, including our ability to plan for and model future growth. We face risks and uncertainties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly changing industries, such as the risks and uncertainties described herein. If our assumptions regarding these risks and uncertainties (which we use to plan our business) are incorrect or change due to changes in our markets, or if we do not address these risks successfully, our operating and financial results could differ materially from our expectations and our business could suffer. The success of our cloud computing business is dependent on the growth and public acceptance of our services Our future success in cloud computing depends on our ability to significantly increase revenues generated from our services. In turn, the success of our cloud computing solutions and services depends, among other things, upon future demand for cloud-based communications systems and services. Because the use of our service requires that the user be a subscriber of an existing broadband Internet service, usually provided through a cable or digital subscriber line, or DSL, connection, slow or limited adoption of broadband Internet service could adversely affect the growth of our subscriber base and revenues. Although the number of broadband subscribers in Greater China has grown significantly over the last five years, cloud-based communications services have not yet been adopted by a majority of prospective business customers. To increase the deployment of broadband Internet services from broadband Internet service providers, telephone companies and cable companies must continue to invest in the deployment of high speed broadband networks to residential and business customers, over which we have no control. In addition, networks must improve quality of service for real-time communications, managing effects such as packet jitter, packet loss, and unreliable bandwidth, so that toll-quality service can be consistently provided. Cloud-based communications equipment and services must achieve a similar level of reliability that users of the public switched telephone network, or PSTN, have come to expect from their telephone service, and the cost and feature benefits of cloud-based communications must be sufficient to cause customers to switch away from traditional telephony service providers. We must devote substantial resources to educate customers and end users about the benefits of cloud-based communications solutions, in general, and our services in particular. Substantial, ongoing interaction with our customers in order to train and assist them with the deployment and use of our services over these networks is sometimes required. If any or all of these factors fail to occur, our business may be adversely affected. Our cloud computing business depends on continued and unimpeded access to the Internet by us and our users. Internet access providers and Internet backbone providers may be able to block, degrade or charge for access to or bandwidth use of certain of our products and services, which could lead to additional expenses and the loss of users 12 Table of Contents Our cloud computing solutions and services depend on the ability of our users to access the Internet, and certain of our products require significant bandwidth to work effectively. Currently, this access is provided by companies that have significant and increasing market power in the broadband and Internet access marketplace, including incumbent telephone companies, cable companies and mobile communications companies. Some of these providers offer products and services that directly compete with our own offerings, which give them a significant competitive advantage. Some of these providers have stated that they may take measures that could degrade, disrupt or increase the cost of user access to certain of our products by restricting or prohibiting the use of their infrastructure to support or facilitate our offerings, or by charging increased fees to us or our users to provide our offerings. While others, including some of the largest providers of broadband Internet access services, have committed to not engaging in such behavior, we cannot assure you that they will follow through on their commitments. Intense competition in the markets in which we compete in cloud computing could prevent us from increasing or sustaining our revenue and increasing or maintaining profitability The cloud computing and telecommunications industries are highly competitive. We face intense competition from new cloud service providers, traditional telephone companies, wireless companies, cable companies, competitive local exchange carriers, alternative voice communication providers and independent VoIP providers. Most of our current and potential competitors, particularly incumbent telephone and cable companies, have longer operating histories, significantly greater resources and name recognition, and a larger base of customers than we have. As a result, these competitors may have greater credibility with our existing and potential customers. They also may be able to adopt more aggressive pricing policies and devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can to ours. Our competitors may also offer bundled service arrangements offering a more complete product despite the technical merits or advantages of our products. Competition could decrease our prices, reduce our sales, lower our gross profits or decrease our market share. We also compete against established alternative voice communication providers and face competition from other large, well-capitalized Internet companies that have recently launched or plan to launch cloud-based services. In addition, we compete with independent cloud service providers. Some of these service providers may choose to sacrifice revenue in order to gain market share by offering their services at lower prices or for free. In order to compete with such service providers, we may have to significantly reduce our prices, which would affect our profitability. We also are subject to the risk that new technologies may be developed that are able to deliver competing voice services at lower prices, better or more conveniently. Future competition from new technologies could have a material adverse effect on our growth and operating results. Given the significant price competition in the markets for our products, we are at a significant disadvantage compared to many of our competitors, especially those with substantially greater resources, and therefore may be better able to withstand an extended period of downward pricing pressure. The adverse impact of a shortfall in our revenues may be magnified by our inability to adjust spending to compensate for such shortfall. Announcements of new products and technologies by our competitors or us could cause customers to defer purchases of our existing products, which also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. The cloud computing market is subject to rapid technological change, and we depend on new product and service introductions in order to maintain and grow our business Cloud computing solutions and services is an emerging market that is characterized by rapid changes in customer requirements, frequent introductions of new and enhanced products, and continuing and rapid technological advancement. To compete successfully in this emerging market, we must continue to design, develop, manufacture, and sell new and enhanced cloud software products and services that provide increasingly higher levels of performance and reliability at lower cost. Decreasing telecommunications rates and increasing regulatory charges may diminish or eliminate our competitive pricing advantage of our communications offerings, which yield significant savings over traditional phone systems Decreasing telecommunications rates may diminish or eliminate the competitive pricing advantage of our services, while increased regulation and the imposition of regulatory obligations could require us to either increase the retail price for our services, thus making us less competitive, or absorb such costs, thus decreasing our profit margins. International and domestic telecommunications rates have decreased significantly over the last few years in Greater China, and we anticipate these rates will continue to decline in all of the markets in which we do business or expect to do business. Users who select our services to take advantage of the current pricing differential between traditional telecommunications rates and our rates may switch to traditional telecommunications carriers if such pricing differentials diminish or disappear, however, and we will be unable to use such pricing differentials to attract new customers in the future. Continued rate decreases would require us to lower our rates to remain competitive and would reduce or possibly eliminate any gross profit from our services. In addition, we may lose subscribers for our services. 13 Table of Contents We rely on third-party network service providers to originate and terminate substantially all of our public switched telephone network calls We leverage the infrastructure of third-party network service providers to provide telephone numbers, PSTN call termination and origination services, and local number portability for our customers rather than deploying our own network throughout Taiwan. This decision has resulted in lower capital and operating costs for our business in the short term but has reduced our operating flexibility and ability to make timely service changes. If any of these network service providers cease operations or otherwise terminate the services that we depend on, the delay in switching our technology to another network service provider, if available, and qualifying this new service could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. While we believe that relations with our current service providers are good, and we have contracts in place, there can be no assurance that these service providers will be able or willing to supply cost-effective services to us in the future or that we will be successful in signing up alternative or additional providers. Although we could replace our current providers, if necessary, our ability to provide service to our subscribers could be impacted during this timeframe, and this could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The loss of access to, or requirement to change, the telephone numbers we provide to our customers also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. Due to our reliance on these service providers, when problems occur in a network, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. The occurrence of hardware and software errors, whether caused by our service or another vendor’s products, may result in the delay or loss of market acceptance of our products and any necessary revisions may force us to incur significant expenses. The occurrence of some of these types of problems may seriously harm our business, financial condition or operating results. Our physical infrastructure is concentrated in a few facilities and any failure in our physical infrastructure or our inability to handle a growing number of simultaneous calls and other services could lead to significant costs and disruptions and could reduce our revenue, harm our business reputation and have a material adverse effect on our financial results Our leased network and data centers are subject to various points of failure. Problems with cooling equipment, generators, uninterruptible power supply, routers, switches, or other equipment, whether or not within our control, could result in service interruptions for our customers as well as equipment damage. Because our services do not require geographic proximity of our data centers to our customers, our infrastructure is consolidated into a few large facilities. Any failure or downtime in one of our data center facilities could affect a significant percentage of our customers. The total destruction or severe impairment of any of our data center facilities could result in significant downtime of our services and the loss of customer data. Because our ability to attract and retain customers depends on our ability to provide customers with highly reliable service, even minor interruptions in our service could harm our reputation. Additionally, in connection with the expansion or consolidation of our existing data center facilities from time to time, there is an increased risk that service interruptions may occur as a result of server relocation or other unforeseen construction-related issues. We expect the volume of simultaneous calls to increase significantly as our subscriber base grows. Our systems may not be able to accommodate this additional volume. If we fail to maintain an appropriate level of operating performance, or if our service is disrupted, our reputation could be hurt and we could lose customers, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. Any future service interruptions could: • Cause our customers to seek damages for losses incurred; • Require us to replace existing equipment or add redundant facilities; • Affect our reputation as a reliable provider of hosting services; • Cause existing customers to cancel or elect to not renew their contracts; or • Make it more difficult for us to attract new customers. Any of these events could materially increase our expenses or reduce our revenue, which would have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Increased energy costs, power outages, and limited availability of electrical resources may adversely affect our operating results 14 Table of Contents Our data centers are susceptible to increased costs of power and to electrical power outages. Our customer contracts do not contain provisions that would allow us to pass on any increased costs of energy to our customers, which could affect our operating margins. Any increases in the price of our services to recoup these costs could not be implemented until the end of a customer contract term. Further, power requirements at our data centers are increasing as a result of the increasing power demands of today’s servers. Increases in our power costs could impact our operating results and financial condition. Since we rely on third parties to provide our data centers with power sufficient to meet our needs, our data centers could have a limited or inadequate amount of electrical resources necessary to meet our customer requirements. We attempt to limit exposure to system downtime due to power outages by using backup generators and power supplies. However, these protections may not limit our exposure to power shortages or outages entirely. Any system downtime resulting from insufficient power resources or power outages could damage our reputation and lead us to lose current and potential customers, which would harm our operating results and financial condition. Dependence on network suppliers may adversely affect our operating results Our success depends in part upon the capacity, reliability, and performance of our network infrastructure, including the capacity leased from our Internet bandwidth suppliers. We depend on these companies to provide uninterrupted and error-free service through their telecommunications networks. Some of these providers are also our competitors. We exercise little control over these providers, which increases our vulnerability to problems with the services they provide. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience interruptions or delays in network service. Any failure on our part or the part of our third-party suppliers to achieve or maintain high data transmission capacity, reliability or performance could significantly reduce customer demand for our services and damage our business. As our customer base grows and their usage of telecommunications capacity increases, we will be required to make additional investments in our capacity to maintain adequate data transmission speeds, the availability of which may be limited or the cost of which may be on terms unacceptable to us. If adequate capacity is not available to us as our customers’ usage increases, our network may be unable to achieve or maintain sufficiently high data transmission capacity, reliability or performance. In addition, our business would suffer if our network suppliers increased the prices for their services and we were unable to pass along the increased costs to our customers. We depend on third-party vendors for mobile phones, IP phones, and video cameras, and any delay or interruption in manufacturing by these vendors would result in delayed or reduced shipments to our customers and may harm our business We rely on third-party vendors for mobile phones, IP phones, and video cameras to utilize our services. We currently do not have long-term supply contracts with any of these vendors. As a result, most of these third-party vendors are not obligated to provide products or perform services to us for any specific period, in any specific quantities or at any specific price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. The inability of these third-party vendors to deliver IP phones of acceptable quality and in a timely manner, particularly the sole source vendors, could adversely affect our operating results or cause them to fluctuate more than anticipated. Additionally, some of our products may require specialized or high-performance component parts that may not be available in quantities or in time frames that meet our requirements. Potential infringement on third-party intellectual property rights could disrupt our business There has been substantial litigation in the communications, VoIP services, semiconductor, electronics, and related industries regarding intellectual property rights and, from time to time, third parties may claim infringement by us of their intellectual property rights. Our broad range of current technology, including IP telephony systems, digital and analog circuits, software, and semiconductors, increases the likelihood that third parties may claim infringement by us of their intellectual property rights. Certain technologies necessary for us to provide our services may, in fact, be patented by other parties either now or in the future. If such technology were held under patent by another person, we would have to negotiate a license for the use of that certain technology. We may not be able to negotiate such a license at a price that is acceptable. The existence of such patents, or our inability to negotiate a license for any such technology on acceptable terms, could force us to cease using such technology and offering products and services incorporating such technology. If we were found to be infringing on the intellectual property rights of any third party in lawsuits or other claims and proceedings that may be asserted against us in the future, we could be subject to liabilities for such infringement, which could be material. We could also be required to refrain from using, manufacturing or selling certain products or using certain processes, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. From time to time, we may receive in the future, notices of claims of infringement, misappropriation or misuse of other parties’ proprietary rights. There can be no assurance that we will prevail in these discussions and actions or that other actions alleging infringement by us of third-party patents will not be asserted or prosecuted against us. Furthermore, lawsuits like these may require significant time and expense to defend, may divert management’s attention away from other aspects of our operations and, upon resolution, may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We may need to incur significant expenses to protect our intellectual property rights, and if we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be harmed 15 Table of Contents We regard our copyrights, service marks, trademarks, trade secrets, patents and other intellectual property as critical to our success. We rely on a combination of copyright and trademark laws, trade secret protection, confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements, and other contractual provisions to protect our proprietary software, trade secrets and similar intellectual property. We have patents, copyrights and trademarks in certain jurisdictions and may apply for further trademark and copyright registrations and additional patents, which may provide such protection in relevant jurisdictions. However, we cannot assure you that our efforts will prove to be sufficient or that third parties will not infringe upon or misappropriate our proprietary rights. Unauthorized use of the intellectual property, whether owned by or licensed to us, could adversely affect our business and reputation. The validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property in Internet-related industries are evolving, and therefore, uncertain. In particular, the laws and enforcement procedures of Taiwan and Hong Kong generally do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws and enforcement procedures of the United States. We may have to engage in litigation or other legal proceedings to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to offer services outside Taiwan is subject to different local regulatory environments, which may be unknown, complicated and uncertain Regulatory treatment of cloud computing solutions and services outside Taiwan varies from country to country and often the applicable laws are unclear. We plan to distribute our products and services directly to consumers and through resellers that may be subject to telecommunications regulations in their home countries. Any failure by us or our customers and resellers to comply with these laws and regulations could reduce our revenue and profitability. Some countries may require us to register as a telecommunications provider based on our relationship with local resellers and may subject us to fines or penalties should we fail to do so. In addition, some countries are considering subjecting cloud-based communications services to the regulations applied to traditional telephone companies. Regulatory developments such as these could have a material adverse effect on the use of our services in international locations. The rates we pay to underlying telecommunications carriers may increase which may reduce our profitability and increase the retail price of our service New rules in Taiwan may impact charges that regulated telecommunications carriers assess each other for originating and terminating traffic. It is possible that new rules will subject cloud-based communications traffic to increased charges. Should this occur, the rates that we pay to our underlying carriers may increase which may reduce our profitability and may also increase the retail price of our service, making our service less competitive with other providers of similar calling services. We could be liable for breaches of security on our web site, fraudulent activities of our users, or the failure of third-party vendors to deliver credit card transaction processing services A fundamental requirement for operating an Internet-based, international communications service and electronically billing our customers is the secure transmission of confidential information and media over public networks. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect consumer information and prevent fraudulent credit card transactions and other security breaches, failure to mitigate such fraud or breaches may adversely affect our operating results. The law relating to the liability of providers of online payment services is currently unsettled and certain jurisdictions may enact their own rules with which we may not comply. We rely on third-party providers to process and guarantee payments made by our subscribers up to certain limits, and we may be unable to prevent our customers from fraudulently receiving goods and services. Our liability risk will increase if a larger fraction of our transactions involve fraudulent or disputed credit card transactions. Any costs we incur as a result of fraudulent or disputed transactions could harm our business. In addition, the functionality of our current billing system relies on certain third-party vendors delivering services. If these vendors are unable or unwilling to provide services, we will not be able to charge for our services in a timely or scalable fashion, which could significantly decrease our revenue and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We may experience losses due to subscriber fraud and theft of service Subscribers may in the future obtain access to our service without paying for monthly service and international toll calls by unlawfully using our authorization codes or by submitting fraudulent credit card information. To date, such losses from unauthorized credit card transactions and theft of service have not occurred. We have implemented anti-fraud procedures in order to control losses relating to these practices, but these procedures may not be adequate to effectively limit all of our exposure in the future from fraud. If our procedures are not effective, consumer fraud and theft of service could significantly decrease our revenue and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. A high rate of customer terminations would negatively affect our business by reducing our revenue or requiring us to spend more money to grow our customer base 16 Table of Contents We could experience a high customer termation, or churn, rate in the future if customers are not satisfied with our service. Other factors, including increased competition from VoIP providers, alternative technologies, and adverse business conditions may also influence our churn rate. Because of churn, we have to acquire new customers on an ongoing basis just to maintain our existing level of customers and revenues. As a result, marketing expenditures are an ongoing requirement of our business. If our churn rate is high and increases, we will have to acquire even more new customers in order to maintain our existing revenues. We incur significant costs to acquire new customers, and those costs are an important factor in determining our net profitability. Therefore, if we are unsuccessful in retaining customers or are required to spend significant amounts to acquire new customers beyond those budgeted, our revenue could decrease and our net income could decrease. We need to retain key personnel to support our products and ongoing operations The development and marketing of our cloud-based communications and services will continue to place a significant strain on our limited personnel, management, and other resources. Our future success depends upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key employees who have critical industry experience and relationships that we rely on to implement our business plan. None of our officers or key employees is bound by employment agreements for any specific term. The loss of the services of any of our officers or key employees could delay the development and introduction of, and negatively impact our ability to sell our services which could adversely affect our financial results and impair our growth. We currently do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our employees. We have outstanding receivables from the disposal of Infocomm Asia Holdings Pte. Ltd. and Spring Asia Limited On July 2, 2012 GigaMedia Asia Pacific Limited (“GigaMedia Asia”), IAH, Management Capital International Limited (“MCIL”), and Roland Ong Toon Wah (“ROTW”) entered into a series of agreements whereby GigaMedia Asia agreed to sell to MCIL 1,463,930 Class A shares of IAH (representing 6.48% of the issued and outstanding shares of IAH), 1,208,881 Class B shares of IAH (representing 53.52% issued and outstanding shares) (the “IAH Share Purchase Agreement”), and to IAH 100% of the shares in Spring Asia Limited (“Spring Asia”) held by GigaMedia through IAH (the “Spring Asia Share Purchase Agreement”). The total purchase price was US$3 million for the Spring Asia shares, and US$1.00 for the IAH shares, excluding taxes. All consideration for the Spring Asia shares was to be paid in four equal installments of US$750,000 over a nine-month period. The parties also executed other ancillary agreements on the same date, including a Shareholders Agreement (among MCIL, GigaMedia Asia, ROTW and IAH, the “IAH Shareholders Agreement”), a Share Charge Agreement (between IAH and GigaMedia Asia), and an Escrow Agreement (among IAH, GigaMedia Asia and Trident Trust Company (Singapore) Pte. Limited). As of April 12, 2013, IAH had defaulted on its second, third, and fourth payments in the total amount of US$2.25 million. We have provided sufficient notice and proper instructions to the escrow agent for us to re-possess Spring Asia shares proportionate to IAH’s defaults. We entered into a Settlement Agreement, dated April 17, 2013, with IAH, MCIL, Spring Asia and ROTW (the “IAH Settlement Agreement”), whereby IAH and/or ROTW agreed to pay us the outstanding Spring Asia purchase price of US$2.25 million, plus interest of US$8,390, within 15 days after the date of the IAH Settlement Agreement. Upon full payment of the purchase price and interest by IAH and/or ROTW, GigaMedia Asia will release and transfer the Spring Asia shares repossessed by GigaMedia Asia to IAH and/or ROTW. Additionally, under the IAH Settlement Agreement, MCIL exercised its call option pursuant to the IAH Share Purchase Agreement to purchase all of the remaining 451,830 IAH shares held by us at a purchase price of US$1 million. The entire US$1 million purchase price is due on May 2, 2013. Risks Related to Doing Business in Greater China There are currently no clear laws or regulations governing virtual asset property rights, in particular, in Greater China, and therefore, it is not clear what liabilities, if any, online game operators may have in respect of virtual assets In the course of playing online games, some virtual assets, such as special equipment, player experience grades and other features of our users’ game characters, are acquired and accumulated. Such virtual assets can be important to online game players. In practice, virtual assets can be lost for various reasons, often through unauthorized use of user identifications by other users and occasionally through data loss caused by delay of network service or by a network crash. Currently there are no clear laws or regulations governing virtual asset property rights, in particular, in Greater China where we operate our Asian online game and service business. As a result, it is unclear under PRC law whether an operator of online games such as us would have any liability (whether in contract, tort or otherwise) for loss of such virtual assets by game players. Based on several judgments regarding the liabilities of online game operators for loss of virtual assets by game players, the PRC courts have generally required online game operators to provide well-developed security systems to protect such virtual assets owned by game players. In the case of a loss of virtual assets, we may be sued by online game players and could be held liable for damages, which may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents There are economic risks associated with doing business in Taiwan, particularly due to the tense relationship between Taiwan and the PRC Our principal executive offices and a significant portion of our assets are located in Taiwan and a major portion of our revenues of Asian online game and service business are derived from our operations in Taiwan. Taiwan, as part of the Republic of China, has a unique international political status. The PRC asserts sovereignty over mainland China and Taiwan and does not recognize the legitimacy of the Taiwan government. Relations between Taiwan and the PRC and other factors affecting the political or economic conditions of Taiwan could also affect our Asian online game and service and GigaCloud businesses. Risks Related to Ownership of our Shares The price of our Shares has been volatile historically and may continue to be volatile, which may make it difficult for holders to resell our Shares when desired or at attractive prices The trading price of our Shares has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. In 2012, the closing prices of our Shares on the Nasdaq Stock Market have ranged from US$0.81 to US$1.48 per share, and the closing price on March 29, 2013 was US$1.05. Our Share price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors. In addition, the financial markets in general, and the market prices for Internet-related companies in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our Shares, regardless of our operating performance. Our Shares are listed on the Nasdaq Global Market and if we fail to meet the standards for continued listing of our Shares on Nasdaq, the Shares could be delisted from the Nasdaq Stock Market Our Shares are listed on the Nasdaq Global Market. The Nasdaq Global Market has several quantitative and qualitative requirements companies must comply with to maintain listing, including a US$1.00 minimum bid price per share. The trading prices for our Shares in the year 2012 were around the US$1.00 range and traded below US$1.00 several times. As of March 29, 2012, the closing price for our Shares was US$1.05. There can be no assurance that we will continue to meet all of the requirements for continued Nasdaq listing. If we fail to comply with the minimum bid price requirement, our Shares could be delisted from Nasdaq, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock prices and our standing with current and future investors. We are controlled by the Koo family, which has significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, and their interests may conflict with your interests As of March 29, 2013, a member of the Koo family beneficially owned approximately 21.29 percent of our outstanding Shares. Accordingly, a member of the Koo family has significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations, the sale of all or substantially all of our assets and the power to prevent or cause a change in control. The interests of such member of the Koo family may differ from or conflict with your interests. Our transactions with related parties may not benefit us and may harm our Company We have entered into several transactions with certain related parties. We believe that we have conducted our related-party transactions on an arm’s-length basis and on terms comparable to, or more favorable to us than, similar transactions we would enter into with independent third parties. However, we cannot assure you that all our future transactions with related parties will be beneficial to us. See Item 7, “Major Shareholders and Related-Party Transactions” in this annual report. The ability of our subsidiaries in Taiwan to distribute dividends to us may be subject to restrictions under the laws of Taiwan We are a holding company, and some of our assets constitute our ownership interests in our subsidiaries in Taiwan, including Hoshin GigaMedia, which owns the Taiwan-based operations of our Asian online game and service business. Accordingly, part of our primary internal source of funds to meet our cash needs is our share of the dividends, if any, paid by our subsidiaries, including those in Taiwan. The distribution of dividends to us from these subsidiaries in Taiwan is subject to restrictions imposed by the applicable corporate and tax regulations in these countries, which are more fully described in Item 5, “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — B. Liquidity and Capital Resources — Dividends from Our Subsidiaries” in this annual report. In addition, although there are currently no foreign exchange control regulations which restrict the ability of our subsidiaries in Taiwan to distribute dividends to us, the relevant regulations may be changed and the ability of these subsidiaries to distribute dividends to us may be restricted in the future. 18 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions under the Singapore Securities and Futures Act (Chapter 289) and the Singapore Code on Take-overs and Mergers may delay, deter or prevent a future takeover or change of control of our Company, which could adversely affect the price of our Shares The Singapore Code on Take-overs and Mergers (the “Code”), issued pursuant to Section 321 of the Singapore Securities and Futures Act (Chapter 289) regulates the acquisition of ordinary shares of, inter alia, listed public companies and contains certain provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a future takeover or change of control of our Company. Any person acquiring an interest, either on his own or together with parties acting in concert with him, in 30 percent or more of the voting shares in our Company must, except with the prior consent of the Singapore Securities Industry Council (the “SIC”), extend a takeover offer for the remaining voting shares in our Company in accordance with the provisions of the Code. Likewise, any person holding between 30 percent and 50 percent of the voting shares in our Company, either on his own or together with parties acting in concert with him, must, except with the prior consent of the SIC, make a takeover offer in accordance with the provisions of the Code if that person together with parties acting in concert with him acquires additional voting shares in excess of one percent of the total number of voting shares in any six-month period. Under the Code, an offeror must treat all shareholders of the same class in an offeree company equally. A fundamental requirement is that shareholders in the company subject to the takeover offer must be given sufficient information, advice and time to consider and decide on the offer. These provisions contained in the Code may discourage or prevent transactions that involve an actual or threatened change of control of our Company. This may harm you because an acquisition bid may allow you to sell your Shares at a price above the prevailing market price. Our shareholders may be subject to Singapore taxes Singapore tax law may differ from the tax laws of other jurisdictions, including the United States. Gains from the sale of our Shares by a person not tax resident in Singapore may be taxable in Singapore if such gains are part of the profits of any business carried on in Singapore. For additional information, see Item 10, “Additional Information — E. Taxation — Singapore Tax Consideration” in this annual report. You should consult your tax advisors concerning the overall tax consequences of acquiring, owning or selling the Shares. We are a Singapore company, and because the rights of shareholders under Singapore law differ from those under U.S. law, you may have difficulty in protecting your shareholder rights or enforcing any judgment obtained in the U.S. against us or our affiliates Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association and by the applicable laws governing corporations incorporated in Singapore. The rights of our shareholders and the responsibilities of members of our board of directors under Singapore law are different from those applicable to a corporation incorporated in the United States and, therefore, our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests in connection with actions by the management, members of our board of directors or our controlling shareholders than they would as shareholders of a corporation incorporated in the United States. Our Company is incorporated under the laws of the Republic of Singapore. Many of our directors and senior management reside outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or any of these persons or to enforce in the United States any judgment obtained in the U.S. courts against us or any of these persons, including judgments based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws or any state or territory of the United States. Judgments of the U.S. courts based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws may not be enforceable in Singapore courts, and it is unclear whether Singapore courts will enter judgments in original actions brought in Singapore courts based solely upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. We may be deemed to be an investment company under the United States Investment Company Act of 1940, which could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations We may be deemed to be an investment company under the United States Investment Company Act of 1940 (the “1940 Act”), and may suffer adverse consequences as a result. Generally, the 1940 Act provides that a company is an investment company if the company (i) is, holds itself out as or proposes to be engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities or (ii) is engaged or proposes to engage in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities and owns or proposes to acquire “investment securities” having a value exceeding 40% of the value of its total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities or cash items) on an unconsolidated basis. Under the 1940 Act, investment securities include, among other things, securities of non-majority owned businesses. However, a company that is primarily engaged, directly or through wholly-owned subsidiaries, in a business or businesses other than that of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities is not an investment company. 19 Table of Contents In the past, we disposed of our online gambling business and made several significant investments in online game developers and operators. As a result of these transactions, we have a significant amount of cash and securities. See Item 4, “Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Gaming Software and Service Business” for additional information. Consequently, there is a risk that we could be deemed to be an investment company because our investment securities may be deemed to comprise more than 40% of our total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities or cash items) on an unconsolidated basis pending investment of disposal proceeds into our businesses. However, based on our historical and current business activities, our intentions, the manner in which we hold ourselves out to the public, the primary activities of our officers and directors and an analysis of our non-cash assets and income during 2012, the first quarter of 2013 and in prior periods, we believe that the better view is that we are not an investment company. Nevertheless, a part of the determination of whether we are an investment company is based upon the composition and value of our non-cash assets, a significant portion of which are presently comprised of our Strategic Investments. As a result, we could be deemed to be an investment company. We intend to continue to conduct our businesses and operations so as to avoid being required to register as an investment company. We have sought opportunities to deploy our capital in a manner which would result in the Company acquiring majority interests in entities or businesses that complement or enhance our remaining businesses or would otherwise assist the Company in achieving our current corporate objectives. We have also limited, and intend to continue to limit, new Strategic Investments to those opportunities which would present excellent opportunities to complement or enhance our remaining businesses or would otherwise assist the Company in achieving our current corporate objectives. If, nevertheless, we were to be required to register as an investment company, because we are a foreign company, the 1940 Act would prohibit us and any person deemed to be an underwriter of our securities from offering for sale, selling or delivering after sale, in connection with a public offering, any security issued by the Company in the United States. Additionally, we may be unable to continue operating as we currently do and might need to acquire or sell assets that we would not otherwise acquire or sell in order to avoid being treated as an “investment company” as defined under the 1940 Act. We may incur significant costs and management time in this regard, which could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a result, you may be subject to materially adverse tax consequences with respect to Shares In light of our significant cash balances and portfolio of investment securities, we believe that it is likely that we were classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for the taxable year ended December 31, 2012, and we will likely be a PFIC for our current taxable year ending December 31, 2013, unless our share value increases and/or we invest a substantial amount of the cash and other passive assets we hold in assets that produce or are held for the production of non-passive income. In addition, it is possible that one or more of our subsidiaries may be or become classified as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A non-United States corporation, such as us, will be classified as a PFIC for any taxable year in which 75 percent or more if its gross income consists of certain types of “passive” income or 50 percent or more of the average quarterly value of its assets (as generally determined on the basis of fair market value) during such year produce or are held for the production of passive income. For this purpose, cash and other assets readily convertible into cash are generally classified as passive and goodwill and other unbooked intangibles associated with active business activities may generally be classified as non-passive. If we were to be classified as a PFIC in any taxable year during which a U.S. person (as defined in “E. Taxation — U.S. Tax Considerations — Passive Foreign Investment Company”) holds our Shares, such U.S. person may incur significantly increased United States income tax on gain recognized on the sale or other disposition of the Shares and on the receipt of distributions on the Shares to the extent such gain or distribution is treated as an “excess distribution” under the U.S. federal income tax rules. Furthermore, a U.S. person will generally be treated as holding an equity interest in a PFIC in the first taxable year of the U.S. Person’s holding period in which we become a PFIC and subsequent taxable years (“PFIC-Tainted Shares”) even if, we, in fact, cease to be a PFIC in subsequent taxable years. Accordingly, a U.S. person, who acquires our Shares during the current taxable year ending 2013 or subsequent taxable years, should, to the extent an election is available, consider making a “mark-to-market” election in the first taxable year of such holder’s holding period to avoid owning PFIC-Tainted Shares. For more information, see the section entitled “E. Taxation — U.S. Tax Considerations — Passive Foreign Investment Company”. Fluctuations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies in which we conduct our business could adversely affect our profitability The operations of our Asian online game and service business are conducted in NT dollars and Hong Kong dollars. Accordingly, fluctuations in the exchange rates could have a positive or negative effect on our reported results. Generally, an appreciation of NT dollars or Hong Kong dollars against U.S. dollars results in a foreign exchange loss for monetary assets denominated in U.S. dollars, and a foreign exchange gain for monetary liabilities denominated in U.S. dollars. On the contrary, a devaluation of NT dollars, Hong Kong dollars, or Singapore dollars against U.S. dollars results in a foreign exchange gain for monetary assets denominated in U.S. dollars, and a foreign exchange loss for monetary liabilities denominated in U.S. dollars. Given the constantly changing currency exposures and the substantial volatility of currency exchange rates, we cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations upon future operating results. There can be no assurance that we will not experience currency losses in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. 20 Table of Contents 