ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The factors discussed below are cautionary statements that identify important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements in this report. Any of the following risks may have a material negative impact on the Company's financial condition. 10 Table of Contents The Company is subject to the effects of general economic and market conditions (including economic disruption caused by terrorist acts). A severe and/or prolonged economic downturn or a negative or uncertain political climate could adversely affect the Company's operating results and financial condition. The Company experienced significant growth in recent years, partly due to domestic and worldwide political and economic developments that have positively affected the markets for defense and advanced technology systems. Homeland security and defeating terrorism have been among the Department of Defense's main initiatives. A slowing in defense spending due to political or budget shifts will put downward pressure on the Company's revenues and gross margins. Results may be adversely affected by: •Increased competition from the Company's own customers' in-house testing laboratories or from government laboratories; •Increased competition from large conformity assessment organizations and small niche oriented test laboratories; •Increased foreign competition; •The loss of significant customers or significant decreases in their purchasing volume; •Environmental issues arising from the use of hazardous substances; •Pricing concessions that may be given on volume sales due to competition; •The rescheduling or cancellation of customer orders; •Fluctuations and availability of certain raw materials or components that are needed to test customers' products; •The loss of key management or technical personnel; •The financial condition of the Company's major customers; •Fraudulent transactions committed against the Company; •U.S. government defense programs are subject to special risk, including dependence on government appropriations, contract termination without cause, contract renegotiations, and intense competition for the available defense business; •The inability to procure sufficient insurance to cover operational and contractual risks; •The inability to expand in international markets due to the Company's limited experience; •The Company may be required to record a charge to earnings if goodwill becomes impaired; •Adverse conditions in the credit markets may affect the Company's ability to obtain credit; •The Company's credit facility contains restrictive covenants that could limit our ability to pursue our business strategies; •If the Company fails to maintain its management information systems, it could adversely affect business; •Program performance (including the ability to perform fixed-price contracts within estimated costs and the timing of test report deliveries); •Future changes in zoning could adversely affect the Company's ability to fully utilize its facilities to service its customers; 11 Table of Contents •The Company's California facilities, including its principal executive offices, are located near major earthquake fault lines. A major earthquake or any other natural disaster in a region near any of the Company's facilities, could materially and adversely affect the Company's business; and •To remain competitive, the Company must be able to respond effectively to technological changes and be able to hire, train and retain highly skilled sales, engineering and technical personnel. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 12 Table of Contents 