ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains or incorporates a number of forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements relate to future events or our future financial performance. We generally identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “expects,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “could,” “intends,” “target,” “projects,” “contemplates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “predicts,” “potential” or “continue” or the negative of these terms or other similar words. These statements are only predictions. We have based these forward-looking statements largely on our current expectations and projections about future events and financial trends that we believe may affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The outcome of the events described in these forward-looking statements is subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors described in “Risk Factors,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and elsewhere in this report. Accordingly, you should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. We cannot assure you that the events and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur, and actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. We have identified below some important factors that could cause our forward-looking statements to differ materially from actual results, performance or financial condition: • our ability to become profitable; • our ability to sell our products in a challenging economic environment; • the ability of our solutions to achieve market acceptance; • a highly competitive market for compensation management; • failure of our customers to renew their subscriptions for our products; • our inability to adequately grow our operations and attain sufficient operating scale; • our inability to effectively protect our intellectual property and not infringe on the intellectual property of others; • our inability to raise sufficient capital when necessary or at satisfactory valuations; • the loss of key personnel; and • other factors discussed elsewhere in this report. The risks and uncertainties described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties, including those not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business. The forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K relate only to events as of the date of this report. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements after the date of this report. This Annual Report on Form 10-K also contains market data related to our business and industry. This market data includes projections that are based on a number of assumptions. If these assumptions turn out to be incorrect, actual results may differ from the projections based on these assumptions. As a result, our markets may not grow at the rates projected by these data, or at all. The failure of these markets to grow at these projected rates may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and the market price of our common stock. 22 Table of Contents We operate in an emerging and rapidly evolving market which makes it difficult to evaluate our business and future prospects and may increase the risk of your investment. We derive, and expect to continue to derive for the foreseeable future, the vast majority of our revenues from on-demand compensation, talent management and HRMS/payroll solutions, which are relatively new and emerging markets, making our business and future prospects difficult to evaluate. Many companies have invested substantial personnel and financial resources in their human resource, or HR, departments or have engaged outside consulting firms or HR Business Process Outsourcers, or HR BPOs, and payroll providers to obtain corporate compensation, talent management and HRMS/payroll data and solutions, and may be reluctant or unwilling to migrate to on-demand software designed to address their compensation, talent management and HRMS/payroll needs. The market for on-demand software solutions is at an early stage of development, and it is uncertain whether an on-demand model such as ours will achieve and sustain the high level of market acceptance that is critical to the success of our business. Our success will depend to a substantial extent on the willingness of companies to increase their use of on-demand software in general and on-demand compensation, talent management and HRMS/payroll software in particular. If businesses do not perceive the benefits of on-demand software, then the market may not develop further, or it may develop more slowly than we expect, either of which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. You must consider our business and future prospects in light of the challenges, risks and difficulties we encounter in the new and rapidly evolving market for on-demand compensation management. These challenges, risks and difficulties include the following: • generating sufficient revenue to achieve and maintain profitability; • developing new products and enhancing the functionality and features of existing applications; • attracting and retaining new customers and expanding the revenue generated from existing customers; • managing growth in our operations; and • attracting and retaining key personnel. We may not be able to successfully address any of these challenges, risks and difficulties, including the other risks related to our business and industry described below. Failure to adequately do so could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our solutions are primarily sold pursuant to subscription agreements, and if our existing customers elect either not to renew these agreements or renew these agreements for fewer applications or at a lower price, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Our solutions are primarily sold pursuant to annual or multi-year subscription agreements and our customers have no obligation to renew these agreements. As a result, we are not able to consistently and accurately predict future renewal rates. Our customers’ renewal rates may decline or fluctuate or our customers may renew for fewer applications or at a lower price as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our solutions, budgetary concerns or the availability and pricing of competing products. Additionally, we may lose customers due to the high turnover rate in their HR departments. If large numbers of existing customers do not renew these agreements, or renew these agreements on terms less favorable to us, and if we cannot replace or supplement those non-renewals with new subscription agreements generating the same or greater level of revenue, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. We have incurred operating losses in the past and expect to incur operating losses in the future. We have incurred operating losses in the past and we expect to incur operating losses in the future. As of March 31, 2009, our accumulated deficit is approximately $66.5 million. Our recent operating losses were $26.5 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009, $12.3 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008, and $8.3 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007. We have not been profitable since our inception, and we 23 Table of Contents may not become profitable. In addition, although we have recently reduced our operating expenses, we still expect our operating expenses to increase in the future as we expand our operations. If our operating expenses exceed our expectations, our financial performance could be adversely affected. If our revenue does not grow to offset these increased expenses, we may not become profitable. You should not consider recent revenue growth as indicative of our future performance. In fact, in future periods, we may not have any revenue growth, or our revenue could decline. Our credit facility contains certain financial and negative covenants, the breach of which may adversely affect our financial condition. We have a credit facility with Silicon Valley Bank under which we had drawn down $8.1 million as of March 31, 2009. On April 27, 2009, we paid all of the outstanding amounts due under our credit facility and on June 29, 2009 we amended our credit facility with Silicon Valley Bank. The modification agreement contains financial covenants that require us to maintain an unrestricted cash balance at Silicon Valley Bank of at least $20 million. If our unrestricted cash falls below $20 million, then the amount we could borrow under the line of credit would be limited to a borrowing base consisting of a specified percentage of accounts receivable and a specified percentage of future billings. In addition, we are required to maintain unrestricted cash plus borrowing availability of at least $15 million and meet adjusted EBITDA targets for trailing three-month periods on a monthly basis. If we are not in compliance with certain of these covenants the amounts drawn on the facility may become immediately due and payable. Any requirement to immediately pay outstanding amounts under a credit facility may negatively impact our financial condition and we may be forced by our creditor into actions, which may not be in our best interests. Our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate in the future. As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of investors or securities analysts which could cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly revenue and results of operations may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. If our quarterly revenue or results of operations fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Fluctuations in our results of operations may be due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those listed below and identified throughout this “Risk Factors” section in this Annual Report on Form 10-K: • our ability to retain and increase sales to existing customers and attract new customers; • the amount and timing of revenue recognized in a particular quarter as a result of changes in the volume and mix of products and services sold in that quarter and prior quarters; • seasonality of our business cycle, given that our cash flows from operating activities are typically lower in our fiscal first and second quarters and higher in our fiscal third and fourth quarters; • our policy of expensing sales commissions in each year of our customer subscriptions; • the timing and success of new product introductions or upgrades by us or our competitors; • the performance of our acquisitions; • changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; • competition, including entry into the market by new competitors and new product offerings by existing competitors; • the amount and timing of expenditures related to expanding our operations, research and development, or introducing new products; • changes in the payment terms for our products and services; and • the purchasing and budgeting cycles of our customers. 24 Table of Contents Because our on-demand software is sold pursuant to annual or multi-year subscription agreements and generally we recognize revenue from these subscriptions over the term of the agreement, downturns or upturns in sales may not be immediately reflected in our operating results. Most of our expenses, such as salaries and third party hosting co-location costs, are relatively fixed in the short-term, and our expense levels are based in part on our expectations regarding future revenue levels. As a result, if revenue for a particular quarter is below our expectations, we may not be able to proportionally reduce operating expenses for that quarter, causing a disproportionate effect on our expected results of operations for that quarter. Due to the foregoing factors, and the other risks discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. If the economy worsens or labor market conditions deteriorate materially, our business may be harmed. To the extent that the economy or labor market conditions materially deteriorate, our existing and potential clients may no longer consider investment in their compensation, talent management and HRMS/payroll systems a necessity, or may elect to defer purchases or reduce budgets in these areas. Either of these developments could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Reductions in information technology spending could limit our ability to grow our business. Our operating results may vary based on changes in the information technology, or IT, spending of our clients. The revenue growth and profitability of our business depend on the overall demand for enterprise application software and services. We sell our solutions primarily to large organizations whose businesses fluctuate with general economic and business conditions. As a result, decreased demand for enterprise application software and services, and in particular on-demand compensation management and talent management solutions, caused by a weakening global economy or otherwise may cause a decline in our revenue. Historically, economic downturns have resulted in overall reductions in corporate IT spending. In particular, compensation management software may be viewed by some of our existing and potential clients as a lower priority and may be among the first expenditures reduced as a result of unfavorable economic conditions. In the future, potential clients may decide to reduce their IT budgets by deferring or reconsidering product purchases, which would negatively affect our operating results. We will likely experience longer sales cycles and increased pricing pressure as a result of unfavorable economic conditions. If general economic conditions worsen or fail to improve, we will likely experience an increase in delays in our sales cycles and an increase in pressure from prospective customers to offer discounts on products higher than our historical practices. We may also experience increased pressure from existing customers to renew expiring software subscriptions agreements at lower rates. In addition, certain of our customers may attempt to negotiate lower software subscription fees for existing arrangements because of downturns in their businesses. If we choose to accept certain request for higher discounts or lower fees, our business may be adversely affected and our revenues may decline. We also believe certain of our competitors may offer lower fees for their products and services as a result of the current economic environment, which may put further downward pressure on our fees. Additionally, certain of our customers may become bankrupt or insolvent as a result of the current economic downturn, and we may lose all revenue from such customers. Because we recognize revenue over the term of the applicable subscription agreement, the lack of subscription renewals or new subscription agreements may not be immediately reflected in our operating results. We recognize revenue from our customers over the term of their subscription agreements with us or, if applicable, over the remaining term once configuration and acceptance of application services has occurred. The 25 Table of Contents substantial majority of our quarterly revenue usually represents deferred revenue from subscriptions sold during previous quarters. As a result, a decline in new or renewed subscription agreements in any one quarter will not necessarily be fully reflected in the revenue for the corresponding quarter but will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. Additionally, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our solutions may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. Our business model also makes it difficult for us to reflect any rapid increase in our customer base and the resulting effect of this increase in our revenue in any one period because revenue from new customers will be recognized over the applicable subscription agreement term. If our efforts to attract new customers or to sell additional solutions to our existing customers are not successful, our revenue growth will be adversely affected. To grow our revenue, we must continually add new customers and sell additional solutions to existing customers. If our existing and prospective customers do not perceive our solutions to be of sufficiently high value and quality, we may not be able to attract new customers or to increase sales to existing customers. Our ability to attract new customers and to sell new solutions to existing customers will depend in large part on the success of our sales and marketing efforts. However, our existing and prospective customers may not be familiar with some of our solutions or may have traditionally used other products and services for some of their compensation management, talent management and HRMS/payroll requirements. In addition, prospective customers may have invested substantial personnel and financial resources in their HR departments or have engaged outside consulting firms or HR BPOs to obtain corporate compensation data and solutions, and may be reluctant or unwilling to migrate to our on-demand compensation management, talent management and HRMS/payroll solutions to address their compensation management needs. Existing customers and prospective customers may also decline to purchase our compensation management, talent management and HRMS/payroll solutions due to budgetary concerns or the availability and pricing of competing products. If we fail to generate additional business from our existing customers and new customers, our revenue could grow at a slower rate or decrease, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to successfully develop new applications, the growth of our business, our revenues and our results of operations will be materially adversely affected. We have developed new applications over time that have contributed to the growth of our business to date. For example, we initially launched CompAnalyst Market Data (formerly known as Job Analyzer) in 2000 and have since added CompAnalyst Survey Management, CompAnalyst Pay Analytics, which includes Reporting & Analysis, Merit Modeling and Salary Structures, and CompAnalyst Executive modules to create our CompAnalyst suite. Products in the on-demand compensation management market typically take years to develop widespread market acceptance. We expect to rely on newly introduced applications for a substantial portion of our growth for the foreseeable future. For example, in fiscal 2009, we introduced a bundled solution which includes our compensation management solutions, our TalentManager suite of enterprise pay-for-performance applications and the HRMS and payroll products, which we obtained through our acquisition of Genesys. We anticipate that, as with any on-demand compensation management application, it may be an extended period of time before this new package of products achieves market acceptance. If we are unable to continue to develop and launch new applications or if our new applications are not able to achieve market acceptance, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. If we do not continue to innovate and provide HR solutions that are useful to users, we may not remain competitive, and our revenues and operating results could suffer. Our success depends on providing HR solutions that HR decision makers may use to make compensation and performance management decisions and to manage other HR functions such as HRMS/payroll and solutions that individuals may use to assess their worth in the job market. Our competitors are constantly developing 26 Table of Contents innovations in HR solutions. Additionally, the market for our on-demand software is characterized by changes in customer requirements, changes in protocols and evolving industry standards. As a result, we must continue to invest significant resources in research and development in order to improve and enhance the responsiveness, functionality and features of our existing applications and develop new applications so that we may offer a complete product suite of solutions that are easy to use and effective. In particular, we will need to expand our offering to more comprehensively address our customers’ compensation management needs and develop a single product suite that encompasses our compensation management, TalentManager and HRMS/payroll solutions. If our innovations are not responsive to the needs of our users, or if our competitors develop a comprehensive single product suite more quickly than we do, our current and potential clients may elect to purchase our competitors’ products and services, which would significantly impair our revenue growth, operating results and reputation. In addition, if we are unable to predict user preferences or industry changes, or if we are unable to modify our offerings on a timely basis, we may lose customers. Our operating results would also suffer if our innovations are not appropriately timed with market opportunities or are not effectively brought to market. We may incur additional restructure charges or not realize the expected benefits of new initiatives to reduce costs across our operations. On January 7, 2009, in response to the current and anticipated macro-economic uncertainties, we implemented and completed a workforce reduction of approximately 100 employees, representing approximately 16% of our workforce. We have also undertaken additional cost savings measures to increase our competitiveness, including relocating our headquarters to a new, lower-cost facility and the reduction of other discretionary costs such as marketing programs and outside services. As a result of the reduction in workforce, we recorded a charge of approximately $3.1 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 under FASB Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 146, “Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities.” This charge included cash payments related to the severance and continuation of benefits for terminated employees of approximately $1.3 million and non-cash stock based compensation charges related to the acceleration of vesting on stock options and restricted stock of approximately $1.8 million. If economic conditions further deteriorate, we may incur additional restructuring costs which may cause disruptions in our operations, loss of key personnel and difficulties in delivering products timely. In addition, we may not be able to realize fully the expected benefits of this workforce reduction. Our growth could strain our personnel and infrastructure resources, and if we are unable to implement appropriate controls and procedures to manage our growth, we may not be able to successfully implement our business plan. Rapid growth in our headcount and operations may place a significant strain on our management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. Between March 31, 2004 and March 31, 2009, the number of our full time equivalent employees increased from 68 to 493. Our success will depend in part upon the ability of our senior management to manage the growth we have experienced effectively. However, the growth we have experienced may place greater strains on our resources. For instance, as discussed above, in response to current and anticipated macro-economic uncertainties, we reduced our work force by approximately 16% in January 2009. As a result, we have fewer personnel to manage our growth and if we are not successful in retaining our existing employees, we may not be able to handle any increase in the volume of our business and our business may be harmed. In addition, if we continue to grow, we may need to hire, train, manage and integrate additional employees, which will require us to expend additional financial resources. We may also outgrow our current space in Needham, Massachusetts, Methuen, Massachusetts, Shanghai, China, Abingdon, United Kingdom and Montego Bay, Jamaica or desire to open additional offices domestically and internationally, which could make it more difficult to manage employees not located at our principal headquarters and maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies across locations. If we determine that it is necessary or desirable to open additional offices, whether domestically or internationally, management resources will be allocated to integrating new offices, handling cultural and 27 Table of Contents language issues arising from international operations and managing costs associated with a multi-office organization. Such focus could divert management’s attention from managing ongoing business operations. Failure to effectively develop our sales and marketing capabilities could harm our ability to increase our customer base and achieve broader market acceptance of our solutions. During fiscal 2007 and 2008, we significantly expanded our direct sales force in our Needham, Massachusetts office and expanded our regional sales force, including sales people dedicated to building out our competency, international, small business and strategic sales teams to penetrate new buying groups and new geographic markets. We also invested significant financial resources in marketing to extend our compensation brand globally and build awareness among a new set of buyers in organizational and leadership development. These initiatives may not yield the desired results to grow and expand our business or brand awareness, and/or we may be unable to manage the resulting growth in headcount or marketing spend in an efficient and cost effective manner. New sales personnel are often not profitable during their first year with us. Our business will be seriously harmed if the expansion of the direct sales force does not generate a corresponding significant increase in revenue. We may not achieve anticipated revenue growth from expanding our direct sales force if our new direct sales personnel are unable to achieve desired productivity levels in a reasonable period of time. In addition, the workforce reduction we implemented in January 2009 may adversely affect the investments we have made in building our sales and marketing infrastructure. As a result, our ability to increase our customer base and achieve broader market acceptance of our solutions could be jeopardized. Our sales force currently consists primarily of direct sales personnel who sell our products over the telephone. As we expand our offerings and our customer base, it may be necessary for our sales personnel to increase the frequency of in-person meetings with our customers in order to sell our products, which will increase the costs incurred in the sales process, and may require us to hire additional sales personnel and extend the length of our typical sales cycle. If we fail to develop or maintain our brand cost-effectively, our business may suffer. We believe that developing and maintaining awareness of our brand in a cost-effective manner is critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our existing and future applications and is an important element in attracting new customers and increasing business with existing customers. Successful promotion of our brand will depend largely on the effectiveness of our marketing efforts and on our ability to provide reliable and useful solutions. Brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenue, and even if they do, any increased revenue may not offset the expenses we incur in building our brand. To date, we have developed our brand at a low cost primarily by partnering with large Internet companies who drive traffic to our web site. Our strategy of partnering with large Internet companies may not continue to build awareness of our brand at the rate we expect. If we are unable to rely on the low cost distribution strategy of partnering with these Internet companies, we would incur costs to replace this distribution which would adversely affect our results of operations. If we fail to successfully promote and maintain our brand, or incur substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain our brand, we may fail to attract new customers or retain our existing customers to the extent necessary to realize a sufficient return on our brand-building efforts, and our business could suffer. We are dependent on our executive officers, and the loss of any of them may prevent us from implementing our business plan in a timely manner if at all. Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel, particularly Kent Plunkett, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Yong Zhang, our Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Technology Officer. We are also substantially dependent on the continued service of our existing development personnel because of the complexity of our products and technologies, as well as on our existing personnel with both compensation management and technical experience 28 Table of Contents because of the difficulty we have had hiring individuals who have experience in both of these fields. Although we currently maintain a key man life insurance policy on Kent Plunkett, this insurance would not adequately compensate us for the loss of his services. The loss of one or more of our key employees could seriously harm our business. We may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled employees we need to support our planned growth. To execute our business strategy, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, especially for senior direct sales personnel with compensation management experience and engineers with high levels of experience in designing and developing on-demand software. We have from time to time in the past experienced, and we expect to continue to experience in the future, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we do. In addition, in making employment decisions, particularly in the Internet and high-technology industries, job candidates often consider the value of the stock options or restricted stock they are to receive in connection with their employment. Significant volatility in the price of our stock may, therefore, adversely affect our ability to attract or retain key employees. If we fail to attract new personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could be severely harmed. Our data is obtained from a variety of sources, some of which may not be available to us in the future. Our proprietary compensation data sets are comprised of extensive data. We obtain our data from a variety of sources, including major consulting firms and our partners, the SEC and other U.S. government agencies and other third party providers, and through our own research efforts. We generally obtain data on a non-exclusive basis and in a summary form. While we do not generally have an ability to resell such data in its entirety, we use such data internally in generating our proprietary data sets. We cannot assure you that the data we require for our proprietary data sets will be available from these sources in the future or that the cost of such data will not increase. From time to time in the past, third parties have sent us letters asserting that our use of data may have violated our agreement with them or infringed upon their copyright. Although we believe that our purchase and use of all third party surveys complies with copyright law and any applicable license agreements, we cannot assure you that we will prevail in any such claims asserted against us and any litigation, regardless of its validity, may involve significant costs and could divert our management’s time and attention from developing our business. If any third party successfully asserts a claim that we have violated their copyrights or our license agreements with them, we may be required to remove the applicable data from our data sets and regenerate our data sets without such data. Additionally, we may no longer be able to obtain data from the provider or other providers on reasonable terms, if at all. Any inability to obtain data may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, as we expand our customer base to include customers outside of the United States, we may not be able to obtain sufficient international data on reasonable terms to support our data sets. We plan to obtain data which we believe is sufficient to build proprietary data sets in order to support the development of an international business. We expect to incur substantial expense to build proprietary data sets for international markets. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully obtain sufficient data to develop proprietary data sets for international markets. 29 Table of Contents We may expand through acquisitions of, investments in or through business relationships with other organizations, all of which may divert our management’s attention, result in additional dilution to our stockholders, consume resources that are necessary to sustain our business and may not result in the realization of the goals underlying the acquisition, investment or business relationship. One of our business strategies is to selectively pursue the acquisition of companies that would either expand the functionality of our compensation management and talent management solutions or provide access to new customers or markets, or both. In fiscal 2009, we acquired Genesys Software Systems, Inc, a leading provider of on demand and licensed human resource management systems and payroll solutions, and InfoBasis, a provider of competency-based learning and development software. In addition, in fiscal 2008, we acquired the assets of Schoonover Associates, Inc. (Schoonover), a leading provider of competency management data and consulting services, ITG Competency Group, LLC (ITG), a leader in the competency model content business, and ICR Limited, L.C. and ICR International Ltd. (ICR), a premier provider of specialty consumer goods and global technology compensation data and software. We also acquired the assets of the eComp division of Aon Consulting, Inc. in August 2006. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” We also may enter into business relationships with other organizations in the future in order to expand our offerings, which could involve preferred or exclusive licenses, additional channels of distribution or discount pricing or investments in other organizations. An acquisition, investment or business relationship may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. In particular, we may encounter difficulties assimilating or integrating the acquired organizations, technologies, products, personnel or operations of the acquired organizations, particularly if the key personnel of the acquired company choose not to work for us, and we may have difficulty retaining the customers of any acquired business due to changes in management and ownership. Acquisitions may also disrupt our ongoing business, divert our resources and require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business. We also may experience lower rates of renewal from customers obtained through acquisitions than we do from existing customers. Additionally, to the extent we expand into new facilities, we may have difficulty maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies across locations. Moreover, we cannot assure you that the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, investment or business relationship would be realized or that we would not be exposed to unknown liabilities. In connection with one or more of these transactions, we may: • issue additional equity securities that would dilute our existing stockholders’ ownership; • use cash that we may need in the future to operate our business; • incur debt on terms unfavorable to us or that we are unable to repay; • incur large charges or substantial liabilities; • encounter difficulties retaining key employees of an acquired company or integrating diverse business cultures; and • become subject to adverse tax and accounting consequences. Although we periodically engage in preliminary discussions with respect to acquisitions, we are not currently a party to any agreement or commitment, and we have no understandings with respect to any acquisition. If we determine that any of our goodwill or intangible assets, including technology purchased in acquisitions, are impaired, we would be required to take a charge to earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We have a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets, such as product and core technology, related to our acquisitions. We recorded significant additional goodwill and other intangible asset amounts in connection with the acquisition of Genesys and InfoBasis in fiscal 2009 and Schoonover and ICR in fiscal 2008. 30 Table of Contents We do not amortize goodwill and intangible assets that are deemed to have indefinite lives. However, we do amortize certain product related technologies, trademarks, patents and other intangibles and we periodically evaluate them for impairment. We review goodwill for impairment annually, or sooner if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount could exceed fair value, at the reporting unit level (operating segment). As of March 31, 2009, we had $14.7 million of goodwill. Fair values are based on discounted cash flows using a discount rate determined by our management to be consistent with industry discount rates and the risks inherent in our current business model. Due to uncertain market conditions and potential changes in our strategy and product portfolio, it is possible that the forecasts we use to support our goodwill and other intangible assets could change in the future, which could result in non-cash charges that would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, impairment testing requires significant judgment, including the identification of reporting units based on our internal reporting structure that reflects the way we manage our business and operations and to which our goodwill and intangible assets would be assigned. Significant judgments are required to estimate the fair value of our goodwill and intangible assets, including estimating future cash flows, determining appropriate discount rates, estimating the applicable tax rates, foreign exchange rates and interest rates, projecting the future industry trends and market conditions, and making other assumptions. Changes in these estimates and assumptions, including changes in our reporting structure, could materially affect our determinations of fair value. We have recorded approximately $38.0 million of goodwill and intangible assets in connection with our acquisitions. If the actual revenues and operating profit attributable to acquired intangible assets are less than the projections we used to initially value these intangible assets when we acquired them, then these intangible assets may be deemed to be impaired. If we determine that any of the goodwill or other intangible assets associated with our recent acquisitions are impaired, then we would be required to reduce the value of those assets or to write them off completely by taking a related charge to earnings. If we are required to write down or write off all or a portion of those assets, or if financial analysts or investors believe we may need to take such action in the future, our stock price and operating results could be materially adversely affected. At March 31, 2009, we had $1.5 million, net, of unamortized intangibles, which include trade names we purchased in acquisitions. These intangibles are primarily associated with on-demand compensation management products. Our customers or prospective customers may not purchase or widely accept our new products. If we fail to complete the development of our anticipated future product and service offerings, including product offerings acquired through our acquisitions, if we fail to complete them in a timely manner, or if we are unsuccessful in selling any new lines of products and services, we could determine that the value of the purchased technology is impaired in whole or in part and take a charge to earnings. We could also incur additional charges in later periods to reflect costs associated with completing those projects that could not be completed in a timely manner. An impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If the actual revenues and operating profit attributable to acquired product and core technologies are less than the projections we used to initially value product and core technologies when we acquired it, such intangible assets may be deemed to be impaired. If we determine that any of our intangible assets are impaired, we would be required to take a related charge to earnings that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We face competition from a variety of sources, and our failure to compete successfully could make it difficult for us to add new customers and retain existing customers and could reduce or impede the growth of our business. The markets for on-demand compensation management, talent management and HRMS and payroll solutions are fragmented, competitive and rapidly evolving, and there are low barriers to entry to some segments of these markets. We expect the intensity of competition to increase in the future as existing competitors develop their capabilities and as new companies enter our markets. Additionally, as we expand our suite of compensation 31 Table of Contents management, talent management and HRMS and payroll solutions and create new types of applications, including a single comprehensive product suite containing all of our solutions, we may face additional competition. Increased competition could result in pricing pressure, reduced sales, lower margins or the failure of our solutions to achieve or maintain broad market acceptance. If we are unable to compete effectively, it will be difficult for us to maintain our pricing rates and add and retain customers, and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be seriously harmed. We face competition primarily from: • generic desktop software and in-house or custom-developed solutions; • established software vendors offering products specifically designed for compensation management or talent management; • established compensation and HR consulting firms; • established HRMS/payroll providers; • other websites and advertising venues; and • existing and future start-up companies offering software, data and interactive HR solutions. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, a larger presence in the general corporate compensation and talent management market, access to larger customer bases and substantially greater financial, technical, sales and marketing, management, service, support and other resources than we have. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards or customer requirements or devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products and services than we can. To the extent our competitors have an existing relationship with a potential customer, that customer may be unwilling to switch vendors due to existing commitments with such competitors. We also expect that new competitors, including companies currently operating in the HR market, enterprise software vendors and online service providers that have traditionally focused on enterprise resource planning or back office applications will enter the on-demand compensation management market with competing products as this market develops and matures. Many of these potential competitors have established or may establish business, financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with existing or potential customers, alliance partners or other third parties or may combine and consolidate to become more formidable competitors with better resources. It is possible that these new competitors could rapidly acquire significant market share. Mergers or other strategic transactions involving our competitors could weaken our competitive position or reduce our revenue. We believe that our industry is highly fragmented and that there is likely to be consolidation, which could lead to increased price competition and other forms of competition. Increased competition may cause pricing pressure and loss of market share, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our competitors may establish or strengthen cooperative relationships with HR BPO vendors, systems integrators, third party consulting firms or HRMS/payroll providers or other parties. Established companies may not only develop their own products but may also merge with or acquire our current competitors. In addition, we may face competition in the future from large established companies, as well as from emerging companies that have not previously entered the markets for compensation management, talent management or HRMS/payroll solutions or that currently do not have products that directly compete with our solutions. It is also possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. In addition, our competitors may announce new products, services or enhancements that better meet the price or performance needs of clients or changing industry standards. 32 Table of Contents If there are interruptions or delays in our on-demand services due to third-party error, our own error or the occurrence of unforeseeable events, delivery of our solutions and the use of our service could become impaired, which could harm our relationships with customers and subject us to liability. All of our solutions reside on hardware that we own or lease and operate and which is currently located at third party operations facilities maintained and operated by either DDI or AT&T. We do not maintain long-term supply contracts with DDI or AT&T, and they do not guarantee that our customers’ access to our solutions will be uninterrupted, error-free or secure. Our operations depend on DDI’s and AT&T’s ability to protect their and our systems in their facilities against damage or interruption from natural disasters, power or telecommunications failures, computer viruses or other attempts to harm our systems, criminal acts and similar events. In the event that our operations facility arrangements with DDI or AT&T are terminated, or there is a lapse of service or damage to either facility, we could experience interruptions in our service as well as delays and additional expense in arranging new facilities and services. Our disaster recovery computer hardware and systems located at our headquarters in Needham, Massachusetts have not been tested under actual disaster conditions and may not have sufficient capacity to recover all data and services in the event of an outage occurring at our operations facility. In the event of a disaster in which our operations facility was irreparably damaged or destroyed, we could experience lengthy interruptions in our service. Moreover, our disaster recovery computer hardware and systems are located approximately fifteen miles from our operations facility and may be equally or more affected by any disaster affecting our operations facility. Any or all of these events could cause our customers to lose access to our on-demand software. Our on-demand compensation management, talent management and our HRMS/payroll solutions are accessed by a large number of customers at the same time. As we continue to expand the number of our customers and applications available to our existing clients, we may not be able to scale our technology to accommodate the increased capacity requirements, which may result in interruptions or delays in services. In addition, the failure by the DDI or AT&T facility to meet our capacity requirements could result in interruptions or delays in our service or impede our ability to scale our operations. We design the system infrastructure and procure and own or lease the computer hardware used for our on-demand services. Design and mechanical errors, spikes in usage volume and failure to follow system protocols and procedures could cause our systems to fail, resulting in interruptions in our service. While we have not experienced extended system failures in the past, any interruptions or delays in our service, whether as a result of third-party error, our own error, natural disasters or security breaches, whether accidental or willful, could harm our relationships with customers and our reputation. Also, in the event of damage or interruption, our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that we may incur. These factors in turn could damage our brand and reputation, divert our employees’ attention, reduce our revenue, subject us to liability, cause us to issue credits or cause customers to fail to renew their subscriptions, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Material defects or errors in our on-demand software could affect our reputation, result in significant costs to us and impair our ability to sell our solutions, which would harm our business. The software applications forming part of our solutions may contain material defects or errors, which could materially and adversely affect our reputation, result in significant costs to us and impair our ability to sell our solutions in the future. After the release of our products, defects or errors may also be identified from time to time by our internal team and by our clients. The costs incurred in correcting any material product defects or errors may be substantial and would adversely affect our operating results. Such defects or errors may occur in the future. Because our customers use our solutions for important aspects of their business, any errors or defects in, or other performance problems with, our solutions could hurt our reputation and may damage our customers’ 33 Table of Contents businesses. If that occurs, we could lose future sales or our existing customers could elect not to renew their agreements with us. Software performance problems could result in loss of market share, failure to achieve, or a delay in achieving, market acceptance of our solutions and the diversion of development resources. If one or more of our solutions fail to perform or contain a technical defect, a customer may assert a claim against us for substantial damages, whether or not we are responsible for our solutions’ failure or defect. We do not currently maintain any warranty reserves. Product liability claims could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or arbitration/dispute resolution or to pay significant settlements or damages. Although we maintain general liability insurance, including coverage for errors and omissions, this coverage may be inadequate, or may not be available in the future on reasonable terms, or at all. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, could be costly and divert management’s attention and could cause our business to suffer. We may be liable to our customers and may lose customers if we provide poor service, if our solutions do not comply with our agreements or if there is a loss of data. The information used in our proprietary data sets may not be complete or may contain inaccuracies that our customers regard as significant. Our ability to collect and report data may be interrupted by a number of factors, including the termination of agreements with third-party data providers, our inability to access the Internet, the failure of our network or software systems or failure by our operations facility to meet our capacity requirements. In addition, computer viruses and intentional or unintentional acts of our employees may harm our systems, causing us to lose data we maintain and supply to our customers or data that our customers input and maintain on our systems, and the transmission of computer viruses could expose us to litigation. Our subscription agreements generally give our customers the right to terminate their agreements for cause if we materially breach our obligations. Any failures in the services that we supply or the loss of any of our customers’ data that we cannot rectify in a reasonable time period may give our customers the right to terminate their agreements with us and could subject us to liability. As a result, we may also be required to spend substantial amounts to defend lawsuits and pay any resulting damage awards. In addition to potential liability, if we supply inaccurate data or experience interruptions in our ability to supply data, our reputation could be harmed and we could lose customers. Although we maintain general liability insurance, including coverage for errors and omissions, this coverage may be inadequate, or may not be available in the future on reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, we cannot assure you that this policy will cover any claim against us for loss of data or other indirect or consequential damages and defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, could be costly and divert management’s attention. With our recent acquisition of Genesys, if we are unable to release annual or periodic updates on a timely basis to reflect changes in tax laws and regulations or other regulatory provisions applicable to our products, the market acceptance of our products may be adversely affected and our revenues could decline. In the third quarter of fiscal 2009, we acquired Genesys. The Genesys suite of products includes payroll management systems, which are affected by changes in tax laws and regulations and generally must be updated annually or periodically to maintain their accuracy and competitiveness. We cannot be certain that we will be able to release these annual or periodic updates on a timely basis in the future. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on market acceptance of the products we acquired from Genesys. In addition, significant changes in tax laws and regulations or other regulatory provisions applicable to our products could require us to make a significant investment in product modifications, which could result in significant unexpected costs to us. 34 Table of Contents Because our products collect and analyze applicants’ and employees’ stored personal information, concerns that our products do not adequately protect the privacy of applicants and employees could result in liability to us and inhibit sales of our products. Some of the features of our compensation management, talent management and HRMS/payroll applications depend on the ability to develop and maintain profiles of applicants and employees for use by our clients. Our software applications augment these profiles over time by capturing additional data and collecting usage data. Although our applications are designed to protect user privacy, privacy concerns nevertheless may cause individuals and businesses to resist providing the personal data necessary to support our products. Any inability to adequately address privacy concerns, even if unfounded, or comply with applicable privacy laws and regulations, could result in liability to us, damage our reputation, inhibit sales of our products and seriously harm our business, financial condition and operating results. As we continue to extend our operations outside of the United States, we may become subject to various data protection regulations such as those adopted by the European Union related to the confidentiality of personal data. If our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to client data, clients may curtail or stop their use of our solutions, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our solutions involve the storage and transmission of confidential information of clients and their existing and potential employees, and security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of, or unauthorized access to, this information, resulting in possible litigation and possible liability. If our security measures were ever breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and, as a result, an unauthorized party obtained access to this confidential data, our reputation could be damaged, our business could suffer and we could incur significant liability. Techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not discovered until launched against a target. As a result, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose sales and clients. We may increase our sales and marketing efforts to clients outside the United States and open additional offices outside the United States, which would expose us to additional risks associated with international operations. As a part of our business strategy we have increased our operations outside the United States. In December 2006, we established a wholly foreign owned enterprise in Shanghai, China primarily for software development. In March 2008, we released our first international dataset within the existing CompAnalyst market pricing suite in Canada and completed our first sales to customers. In August 2008, we acquired InfoBasis, a wholly owned subsidiary in the United Kingdom. In September 2008, we established a wholly foreign owned enterprise in Montego Bay, Jamaica primarily to support our pre-sales marketing efforts. While we have no additional specific plans or commitments with respect to any further international expansion, we may open additional offices outside of the United States in the future. We may not be successful in our efforts to establish our Chinese operations or to expand our sales into Canada and other international markets and open additional international offices. International operations and sales subject us to risks and challenges that we would otherwise not face if we conducted our business only in the United States including: • legal and regulatory restrictions; • challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences and in doing business with foreign agencies and governments; 35 Table of Contents • difficulties obtaining additional data sources that cover international job markets at a reasonable cost; • difficulties obtaining the data necessary to support international customers on reasonable terms, if at all; • difficulties developing algorithms that can be used to generate and analyze data on international job markets; • difficulties in developing products and services in different languages and for different cultures; • difficulties in managing and staffing international operations; • challenges in protecting data and intellectual property; • longer payment cycles in some countries; • credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • political and economic instability and export restrictions; • potentially adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of foreign value added tax systems and restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; and • higher costs associated with doing business internationally. Our limited experience with conducting business internationally increases our risk of operating internationally and requires management to focus additional attention and resources on our international operations. These risks could harm our international expansion efforts or other aspects of our business, which would in turn harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Evolving regulation of the Internet may increase our expenditures related to compliance efforts, which may adversely affect our financial condition. As Internet commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state or foreign agencies becomes more likely. We are particularly sensitive to these risks because the Internet is a critical component of our on-demand business model. For example, we believe that increased regulation is likely in the area of data privacy, and laws and regulations applying to the solicitation, collection, processing or use of personal or consumer information could affect our clients’ ability to use and share data, potentially reducing demand for solutions accessed via the Internet and restricting our ability to store, process and share data with our clients via the Internet. In addition, taxation of services provided over the Internet or other charges imposed by government agencies or by private organizations for accessing the Internet may also be imposed. Any regulation imposing greater fees for Internet use or restricting information exchange over the Internet could result in a decline in the use of the Internet and the viability of Internet-based services, which could harm our business. The success of our business depends on the continued growth and acceptance of the Internet as a business and communications tool, and the related expansion of the Internet infrastructure. The future success of our business depends upon the continued and widespread use of the Internet as a primary medium for commerce, communication and business applications. Our business growth would be impeded if the performance or perception of the Internet was harmed by security problems such as “viruses,” “worms” and other malicious programs, reliability issues arising from outages and damage to Internet infrastructure, delays in development or adoption of new standards and protocols to handle increased demands of Internet activity, increased costs, decreased accessibility and quality of service or increased government taxation of Internet activity. 36 Table of Contents The Internet has experienced, and is expected to continue to experience, significant user and traffic growth, which has, at times, caused user frustration with slow access and download times. If Internet activity grows faster than Internet infrastructure or if the Internet infrastructure is otherwise unable to support the demands placed on it, or if hosting capacity becomes scarce, our business growth may be adversely affected. If we are unable to protect our proprietary technology and other intellectual property rights, it will reduce our ability to compete for business and we may lose valuable assets, experience reduced revenue and incur costly litigation to protect our rights. Our intellectual property rights are important to our business, and our success is dependent, in part, on protecting our proprietary technology and our brand, marks and domain names. In particular, the processes we use when working with the data we obtain, including the use of algorithms and other analytical tools, are critical to the accuracy of our data sets and the success of our business. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements, third-party nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions and technical measures, to protect our intellectual property rights. These protections may not be adequate to prevent our competitors from copying our solutions or otherwise infringing on our intellectual property rights. Existing copyright laws afford only limited protection for our intellectual property rights and may not protect such rights in the event competitors independently develop solutions similar or superior to ours. In addition, the laws of some countries in which our solutions are or may be licensed may not protect our solutions and intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. To protect our proprietary methods, we have two U.S. issued patents and corresponding foreign equivalents, and currently have three U.S. patent applications pending and corresponding foreign equivalents. We cannot assure you that the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (or its foreign equivalents) will grant these patents, or that the patents granted will give us the protection that we seek. To protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into non-disclosure agreements. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. We will not be able to protect our intellectual property if we do not detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property. If we discover that a third party is infringing upon our intellectual property rights, we may need to undertake costly and time-consuming litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights. We cannot be sure we will prevail in any litigation filed to protect our intellectual property, and even if we are successful in protecting our intellectual property rights, we may incur significant legal costs and management’s attention may be diverted from the ongoing development of our business, which could adversely affect our business. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, our competitors could use our intellectual property to market products similar to ours, which could decrease demand for our solutions. If a third party asserts that we are infringing its intellectual property, whether successful or not, it could subject us to costly and time-consuming litigation or expensive licenses, and our business may be harmed. The software and Internet industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, trademarks and copyrights and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Third parties may assert patent and other intellectual property infringement claims against us in the form of lawsuits, letters, or other forms of communication. If a third party successfully asserts a claim that we are infringing their proprietary rights, royalty or licensing agreements might not be available on terms we find acceptable or at all. As currently pending patent applications are not publicly available, we cannot anticipate all such claims or know with certainty whether our technology infringes the intellectual property rights of third parties. 37 Table of Contents Any litigation, with or without merit, could be time consuming and expensive to litigate or settle and could divert management’s attention from our business. Any license agreement we enter into with the patent holder could have unfavorable terms, including royalty payments, which could adversely affect our business. In order to obtain certain of the necessary data that serves as the backbone of our compensation management solutions, we enter into agreements with major consulting firms and other third-party providers. We generally receive data in a summary form. We do not generally have an ability to resell such data in its entirety, but we can use such data internally to generate our proprietary data sets. If a third party successfully asserts a claim that our use of its data has violated our agreement with such provider or infringed upon their copyright, we may be required to remove the applicable data from our data sets and regenerate our data sets without such data. Additionally, we may no longer be able to obtain data from the provider or other providers on reasonable terms, if at all. We expect that the number of infringement and breach of contract claims in our market will increase as the number of solutions and competitors in our industry grows. These claims, whether or not successful, could: • require significant management time and attention; • result in costly and time-consuming litigation, and the payment of substantial damages; • require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all; • require us to remove data from our compensation management data sets and regenerate our data sets without such data; • require us to expend additional development resources to redesign our solutions to avoid infringement or discontinue the sale of our solutions; • create negative publicity that adversely affects our reputation and brand and the demand for our solutions; or • require us to indemnify our clients. As a result, any third-party intellectual property infringement claims or breach of contract claims against us could increase our expenses and adversely affect our business. In addition, many of our customer agreements require us to indemnify our customers for third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which would increase the cost to us resulting from an adverse ruling in any such claim. Even if we have not infringed any third parties’ intellectual property rights, we cannot be sure our legal defenses will be successful, and even if we are successful in defending against such claims, our legal defense could require significant financial resources and management’s time, which could adversely affect our business. We might require additional capital to support business growth, and this capital might not be available. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges, including the need to develop new software or enhance our existing solutions, enhance our operating infrastructure and acquire complementary businesses and technologies. Accordingly, we may need to complete additional equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. We cannot assure you that further equity or debt financing will be available on acceptable terms. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. 38 Table of Contents Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards in the United States may be limited. As of March 31, 2009, we had net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $32.2 million for federal tax purposes. These loss carryforwards expire at various dates through 2028. To the extent available, we intend to use these net operating loss carryforwards to reduce the U.S. corporate income tax liability associated with our operations. Section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986 generally imposes an annual limitation on the amount of net operating loss carryforwards that may be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone significant changes in stock ownership. Our ability to utilize net operating loss carryforwards may be limited by the issuance of common stock in our initial public offering. To the extent our use of net operating loss carryforwards is significantly limited, our income could be subject to U.S. corporate income tax earlier than it would if we were able to use net operating loss carryforwards, which could result in lower profits. Being a public company has increased and will continue to increase our administrative costs. As a public company, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. Sarbanes-Oxley, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the Nasdaq Global Market, have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. These new rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs, and have made some activities more time consuming and/or costly. For example, we have migrated our core financial systems to our new accounting system, adopted additional internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures and adopted corporate governance policies. We also are subject to Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley which requires us to complete a formal evaluation, documentation and analysis of our internal controls, and remedy any deficiencies, significant deficiencies or material weaknesses that we may identify. In addition, as a public company we have all of the internal and external costs of preparing and distributing periodic public reports in compliance with our obligations under the securities laws. These new rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and qualified executive officers. An active trading market for our common stock may not be available on a consistent basis to provide stockholders with adequate liquidity. Our stock price may be extremely volatile, and our stockholders could lose a significant part of their investment. An active trading market for shares of our common stock may not be sustained on a consistent basis. The public trading price for our common stock will be affected by a number of factors, including: • quarterly variations in our operating results; • seasonality of our business cycle; • interest rate changes; • changes in the market’s expectations about our operating results; • our operating results failing to meet the expectation of securities analysts or investors in a particular period or failure of securities analysts to publish reports about us or our business; 39 Table of Contents • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts concerning our company or the on-demand software industry in general; • operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; • news reports relating to trends in our markets; • announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, changes in strategy, new offerings or improvements, significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments; • our ability to market new and enhanced offerings on a timely basis; • changes in laws and regulations affecting our business; • commencement of, or involvement in, litigation; • the volume of shares of our common stock available for public sale; • any major change in our board or management; • sales of substantial amounts of common stock by our directors, executive officers or significant stockholders or the perception that such sales could occur; • general economic and political conditions such as recessions and acts of war or terrorism; and • the other factors described elsewhere in these “Risk Factors.” As a result of these factors, our stockholders may not be able to resell their shares at, or above, their purchase price. In addition, prior to our public offering, we received very limited analyst coverage. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. We do not control these analysts. There are many large, well-established publicly-traded companies active in our industry and market, which may mean it will be less likely that we receive widespread analyst coverage. Furthermore, if one or more of the analysts who do cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price would likely decline rapidly. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline and may also impair our ability to expand our business with existing customers and attract new customers. Given the volatility of our stock and trends in the stock market in general, at any given time we might not meet the continued listing requirements of The NASDAQ Global Market. If we are not able to maintain the requirements for continued listing on The NASDAQ Global Market, we could be de-listed, which could have a materially adverse effect on the price and liquidity of our common stock. Our common stock trades on the NASDAQ Global Market, which has certain compliance requirements for continued listing of common stock. Among other requirements, NASDAQ requires the minimum bid price of a company’s registered shares to be $1.00. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009, the closing bid price of our stock was as low as $1.36. If our minimum closing bid price per share falls below $1.00 for a period of 30 consecutive trading days in the future, we be subject to delisting procedures. We also must meet additional continued listing requirements contained in NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 5450(b), which requires that we have a minimum of $10,000,000 in stockholders’ equity or $50,000,000 market value of listed securities held by non-affiliates or $50,000,000 of total assets and total revenue for the most recently completed fiscal year (or two of the three most recently completed fiscal years). As of the close of business on June 22, 2009, we were in compliance with NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 5450(b)(1)(A). There can be no assurances that we will continue to meet NASDAQ’s continued listing requirements. Delisting could reduce the ability of our stockholders to purchase or sell shares as quickly and as 40 Table of Contents inexpensively as they have done historically. For instance, failure to obtain listing on another market or exchange may make it more difficult for traders to sell our securities. Broker-dealers may be less willing or able to sell or make a market in our common stock. Not maintaining our NASDAQ Global Market listing may result in a decrease in the trading price of our common stock, lessen interest by institutions and individuals in investing in our common stock, make it more difficult to obtain analyst coverage, and make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future. The concentration of our capital stock ownership with insiders will likely limit your ability to influence corporate matters. Our executive officers, directors and affiliated entities together beneficially own approximately 23% of our common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, will have control over most matters that require approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. Corporate action might be taken even if other stockholders oppose them. This concentration of ownership might also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company that other stockholders may view as beneficial. In addition, Kent Plunkett, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, directly and indirectly owns approximately 19% of our common stock. Mr. Plunkett’s significant ownership interest could adversely affect investors’ perception of our corporate governance or delay, prevent or cause a change in control of our company, any of which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Future sales, or the availability for sale, of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could materially impair our future ability to raise capital through offerings of our common stock. Our Shareholder Rights Plan or provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws or Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our stock. We have adopted a Shareholder Rights Plan, under which the rights become exercisable if a person becomes an “acquiring person” by acquiring 20% or more of the outstanding shares of common stock or if a person commences a tender offer that would result in that person owning 20% or more of the common stock. If a person becomes an “acquiring person,” each holder of a right (other than the acquiring person) would be entitled to purchase, at the then-current exercise price, such number of shares of our preferred stock which are equivalent to shares of common stock having twice the exercise price of the right. If we are acquired in a merger or other business combination transaction after any such event, each holder of a right would then be entitled to purchase, at the then-current exercise price, shares of the acquiring company’s common stock having a value of twice the exercise price of the right. The Shareholder Rights Plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or could discourage a third party from acquiring, us or a large block of our common stock. In addition to our Shareholder Rights Plan, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could depress the trading price of our common stock by acting to discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management that the stockholders of our company may deem advantageous. These provisions include: • our board of directors is divided into three classes serving staggered three-year terms; • only our board of directors may call special meetings of our stockholders; • our stockholders may take action only at a meeting of our stockholders and not by written consent; • we have authorized undesignated “blank check” preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval; 41 Table of Contents • stockholder approval of amendments of our certificate of incorporation requires a vote of a majority of our outstanding shares and, in some cases, a vote of 75% of our outstanding shares; • stockholder approval of amendments of our by-laws requires a vote of a majority of our outstanding shares or, if the amendment is not recommended by our board of directors, a vote of 75% of our outstanding shares; • vacancies on the board of directors may be filled only by the directors; • stockholders may remove our directors only for cause and with the affirmative vote of the holders of 75% of the votes that all stockholders would be entitled to cast in the election of directors; and • we require advance notice for stockholder proposals. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We have not declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings and do not expect to pay any dividend in the foreseeable future. As a result, you may only receive a return on your investment in our common stock if the market price of our common stock increases. 