RISK FACTORS Our future results, plans, objectives, expectations and intentions could be negatively affected by any of the following “risk factors.” Investors should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors, and we are under no obligation to update these factors. Investors should not consider the factors listed as a complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. Deterioration of economic conditions could harm our business. Current uncertainty in global economic conditions poses a risk to our business as consumers may defer discretionary purchases, such as our products, in response to tighter credit and negative financial news, which could negatively affect demand for and sales of our products. Weak economic conditions in our target markets, or a reduction in health care spending even if economic conditions improve, would likely adversely impact our business, operating results, and financial condition in a number of ways, including longer sales cycles, lower prices for our products, and reduced sales. We have a history of losses and negative cash flow. We have a history of losses and negative cash flow and a significant accumulated deficit and have yet to become consistently profitable. We may incur net losses and negative cash flow in the future. Whether or not we achieve consistent profitability will depend in significant part on increasing our net sales, maintaining or improving our gross margin and maintaining or limiting increases in our operating expenses. Consequently, it is possible that we will not achieve consistent profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. 11 We face aggressive competition in our business, and if we do not compete effectively our net sales and operating results will suffer. We encounter aggressive competition from a number of competitors worldwide, six of which have far greater sales and more extensive financial and business resources than we have. We may not choose to, or be able to, match the type or the volume of incentives that our competitors provide to hearing aid retailers, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. In addition, some competitors have purchased or established their own network of owned or franchised retail hearing aid operations or are adding to those networks, which could cause us to lose existing customers and make it difficult to recruit new customers. Competition is intense and new product offerings by our competitors are coming to market more quickly than in the past. If we fail to compete effectively, our net sales and operating results will suffer. Our financial results may fluctuate significantly, which may cause our stock price to decline. Our financial results have fluctuated significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future. These fluctuations could cause our stock price to vary considerably. Factors that may cause fluctuations in our operating results include the following: general economic conditions; hearing aid market conditions; the competitive performance of our products; delays or problems completing or introducing new products; expenses associated with increasing our sales, marketing or distribution capabilities; difficulties in integrating and managing acquired operations that could result in poor performance, additional expenses or write-downs of acquired intangible assets; changes in government healthcare systems, changes in reimbursement methodologies and reductions in reimbursement levels for hearing aids or diagnostic hearing testing; competitive pressures resulting in lower selling prices or significant promotional costs; difficulties in relationships with our customers, particularly large buying groups; demand for and market acceptance of our products, particularly new products where eventual market acceptance may not follow early indications; reductions in orders from larger customers or buying groups; high levels of returns, remakes and repairs; changes in our product or customer mix; changes in or additional regulatory requirements; difficulties in managing international operations; foreign currency fluctuations; the effect of past and future acquisitions; the effect of international conflicts and threats; inability to forecast revenue accurately; nonpayment of receivables; the announcement or introduction of new products or services by our competitors; manufacturing problems; component availability and pricing; unanticipated adverse decisions related to legal proceedings, claims and litigation; and other business factors beyond our control. If net sales for a particular period were below our expectations, it is highly unlikely that we could proportionately reduce our operating expenses for that period. Therefore, any revenue shortfall would have a disproportionately negative effect on our operating results for the period. You should not rely on our results for any one quarter as an indication of our future performance. In future quarters, our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts or investors. If this occurs, our stock price would very likely decrease. Recently our common stock traded at prices below $1.00. If this continues in the future, our common stock could be subject to delisting by the NASDAQ Global Market. At various times during the fourth quarter of 2008, our common stock traded below the $1.00 minimum bid price requirement set forth in NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4450. Because of the volatility in the financial markets, NASDAQ temporarily suspended the continued listing requirements related to bid price and market value during the period of October 16, 2008 to April 19, 2009. If our common stock price remains below $1.00 per share after the temporary suspension expires, and the suspension is not extended, or if we fail to maintain other NASDAQ listing criteria, our common stock could be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market. If we were to be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market and move to an alternative market, which may be less efficient and less broad-based, we may have difficulty accessing capital markets for additional funding, and our shareholders may experience reduced liquidity. Accordingly, the value of our common stock could decrease. There is no guarantee that an active trading market for our common stock will be maintained on the NASDAQ Global Market. If trading in our common stock is not active, you may not be able to sell your shares of our common stock quickly, at the market price, or at all. Delisting could also have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by employees, the loss of institutional investor interest, and fewer business development opportunities. We have made a number of acquisitions and could make additional acquisitions, which could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our existing business, dilute the equity of our shareholders and harm our operating results. We may not be able to meet performance expectations for, or successfully integrate, businesses we have acquired or may acquire on a timely basis or at all. For example, as part of our business strategy, we may continue to make acquisitions that complement or expand our existing business and distribution capabilities. Acquisitions involve risks, including the inability to successfully integrate acquired businesses or to realize anticipated synergies, economies of scale or other expected value; difficulties in managing and coordinating operations at new locations; the loss or termination of key employees of acquired businesses; the loss of key customers of acquired businesses; diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; risks of entering businesses and markets in which we have no direct or limited prior experience and risk of upsetting current customers through acquisitions. Acquisitions may 12 result in the utilization of cash, dilutive issuances of equity securities and the incurrence of debt, any of which would weaken our financial position. In addition, acquisitions may result in the creation of certain definite-lived intangible assets that increase amortization expense, goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets that subsequently may result in large write-downs should these assets become impaired and contingent consideration or other payments that may need to be expensed rather than recorded as additional goodwill. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business and the trading price of our common stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal controls that need improvement. Although we have implemented enhanced procedures to properly prepare our financial statements, we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we will maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. In addition, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate and report on our internal controls over financial reporting and have our independent registered public accounting firm issue an opinion on our internal control over financial reporting. We prepared for compliance with Section 404 by strengthening, assessing and testing our system of internal controls to provide the basis for our report. However, the continuous process of strengthening our internal controls and complying with Section 404 is expensive and time consuming and requires significant management attention. We cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we will maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we or our auditors discover a material weakness, the disclosure of that fact, even if quickly remedied, could reduce the market’s confidence in our financial statements and harm our stock price. In addition, future non-compliance with Section 404 could subject us to a variety of administrative sanctions, including the suspension or delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Global Market and the inability of registered broker-dealers to make a market in our common stock, which would further reduce our stock price. The loss of any large customer or a reduction in orders from any large customer or buying groups could reduce our net sales and harm our operating results. We anticipate that our operating results in any given period will depend in part upon revenues from a number of larger customers, including buying groups. Our customers and buying groups are not contractually obligated to purchase any fixed quantities of products, and they may stop placing orders with us at any time. We may be unable to retain our current customers, and we may be unable to recruit replacement or additional customers or buying groups. We are selling hearing aids to a number of retail chains that have a large number of owned or franchised locations and buying groups that have a large number of locations under contract. We are subject to the risk of losing large customers and buying groups, incurring significant reductions in sales to these customers and buying groups, reducing prices in response to demands from these customers and buying groups or incurring substantial marketing expenses in order to maintain their business. As an example, during late 2008, a buying group in our North American wholesale division added two other manufacturers to its line-up of products offered to its members. This buying group was 11.8% of North American sales in 2008 and carried a gross margin of approximately 30%. In addition, we are subject to the risk of being unable to collect receivable balances from these customers. We rely on several suppliers and contractors, and our business will be seriously harmed if these suppliers and contractors are not able to meet our requirements. Certain critical components used in our products are currently available only from a single or limited number of suppliers. For example, each of our three proprietary digital signal processing chips is manufactured by a single separate supplier. These suppliers may not be willing or able to satisfy our requirements. We also rely on a limited number of contractors for certain hearing aid component assemblies and advanced integrated circuitry development and are therefore subject to their performance, over which we have little control. We may lose the services of these key suppliers or contractors. Finding a substitute part, process, supplier or contractor may be expensive and time-consuming, or may prove impossible in the near-term. We have high levels of product returns, remakes and repairs, and our net sales and operating results will be lower if these levels increase. We generally offer a 60 day return policy for wholesale and 30 days for retail hearing aid sales, and various warranties on our hearing aids. In general, the hearing aid industry has high levels of returns, remakes and repairs, and we believe our level of returns, remakes and repairs is comparable to that of the industry. We may not be able to attain lower levels of returns, remakes and repairs and, in fact, these levels may increase, which could reduce our net sales and operating results. 13 If we fail to develop new and innovative products, our competitive position will suffer, and if our new products are not well accepted, our net sales and operating results will suffer. In order to be successful, we must develop new products and be a leader in the commercialization of new technology innovations in the hearing aid market. Technological innovation is expensive and unpredictable and among other things, requires hiring (i) expert personnel who are difficult to find and attract, or (ii) external contractors to perform complex tasks. Without the timely introduction of new products, our existing products are likely to become technologically obsolete over time, which would harm our business. We may not have the technical capabilities or expertise necessary to develop further technologically innovative products. In addition, any enhancements to, or new generations of, our products, even if successfully developed, may not generate significant revenues. Moreover, if we are unable to continue to introduce new products on a periodic basis, the overall average selling price of our products may decline, negatively impacting our gross margin and operating results. Our products may be rendered obsolete by changing consumer preferences or the introduction of products embodying new technologies or features by us or our competitors. Obsolescence of our products, a “breakthrough” new method of addressing hearing loss or the introduction of technologically superior products by new or existing competitors could cause us a rapid loss of sales or market share, which would have a significant adverse effect on our net sales, operating results and stock price. Because of the complexity of our products, there may be undiscovered errors or defects that could harm our business or reputation. Our products are complex and may contain undetected defects, errors or failures. Our customers may discover defects and errors after products have been introduced and sold. The occurrence of any defects, errors or failures could result in the loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products, or increased product returns and warranty expenses, any of which could harm our reputation and business and adversely affect our net sales and operating results. If we are subject to litigation and infringement claims, they could be costly and disrupt our business. There may be patents or patent applications in the U.S. or other countries that are pertinent to our business of which we are not aware. The technology that we incorporate into and use to develop and manufacture our current and future products may be subject to claims that they infringe the patents or proprietary rights of others. The success of our technology efforts will also depend on our ability to develop new technologies without infringing or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. We have in the past and may in the future receive notices from third parties alleging patent, trademark or copyright infringement. Whether or not we actually infringe a third party’s rights, receipt of these notices could result in significant costs and diversion of the attention of management from our business. If a successful claim were brought against us, we would have to attempt to license the intellectual property right from the claimant or spend time and money to design around or avoid the intellectual property. Any such license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all. We may be involved in future lawsuits, arbitrations or other legal proceedings alleging patent infringement or other intellectual property rights violations. In addition, litigation, arbitration or other legal proceedings may be necessary to: • assert claims of infringement of or otherwise enforce our intellectual property rights; • protect our trade secrets or know-how; or • determine the enforceability, scope and validity of our intellectual property rights or those of others. We may be unsuccessful in defending or pursuing these lawsuits or claims. Regardless of the outcome, litigation can be very costly and can divert management’s attention. An adverse determination may subject us to significant liabilities or require us to seek licenses to other parties’ intellectual property rights. We may also be restricted or prevented from manufacturing, marketing or selling a new product that we develop or that is successfully being sold in the marketplace. Further, we may not be able to obtain any necessary licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, we may have to participate in proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or before foreign patent and trademark offices, with respect to our patents and patent applications or those of others. These actions may result in substantial costs to us as well as a diversion of management attention. Furthermore, these actions could place our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights at risk and could result in the loss of patent, trademark or other intellectual property rights protection for the products and services on which our business strategy depends. We may be unable to adequately protect or enforce our proprietary technology, which may result in its unauthorized use or reduced sales or otherwise reduce our ability to compete. Our business and competitive position depend upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology. Despite our efforts to protect this information, unauthorized parties may attempt to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Any patents issued in connection with our efforts to develop new technology for our products may not be broad enough to protect all of the potential uses of the technology. 14 In addition, when we do not control the prosecution, maintenance and enforcement of certain important intellectual property, such as a technology licensed to us, the protection of the intellectual property rights may not be in our hands. If the entity that controls the intellectual property rights does not adequately protect those rights, our rights may be impaired, which may affect our ability to develop, market and commercialize the related products. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate, and our competitors may: • Independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, products and techniques; • Otherwise gain access to our proprietary information; or • Design around our patents or other intellectual property. We pursue a policy of having our employees, consultants and advisors execute proprietary information and assignment of invention agreements when they begin working for us. However, these agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. We are dependent on international operations, which expose us to a variety of risks that could result in lower sales and operating results. International sales account for a material portion of our net sales. Our reliance on international operations exposes us to related risks and uncertainties, which, if realized, could cause our sales and operating results to decrease. There is significant government or public hearing aid reimbursement in a number of countries outside the U.S., which if reduced or eliminated would likely have a negative effect on our sales. For example, reimbursement levels are trending downward in Germany, which will negatively affect our sales in that country in 2009. Other changes in the healthcare systems of countries outside the U.S., such as instituting co-payments or co-insurance or changes to reimbursement methodologies would likely have negative effects on our sales. In order to market our products in the EU, we are required to have the EEA’s CE mark certification. Any failure to maintain our CE mark certification would significantly reduce our net sales and operating results. We work under different legal, regulatory and governmental regimes in various countries, which could delay our ability to sell products or cause us additional expense in determining how to comply, and taking any actions necessary to comply, with local legal, regulatory and governmental requirements. In addition, we may need to adapt local practices to satisfy requirements applicable in the U.S. We face foreign currency risks primarily as a result of the revenues we derive from sales made outside the U.S., expenses incurred outside the U.S. and intercompany account balances between our U.S. parent company and our non-U.S. subsidiary companies. Fluctuations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies could negatively affect the sales price of our products in international markets or lead to currency exchange losses. In general, our net sales and operating results benefit from a weakening U.S. dollar. If the U.S. dollar were to strengthen from current levels, our net sales and operating results would suffer. In November 2008, the Federal Council of Germany passed new legislation requiring the hearing aid fitting fee which our German operation pays to the ENT doctor be paid by the insurance company rather than by our German operation. This new requirement may impose an administrative burden on the insurance companies and, as a result, they may refuse to pay the ENT doctors which would eliminate the incentive for the ENT to sell hearing aids to their patients, which would adversely impact the business model in Germany and result in a significant decline in the revenue and profits realized from these operations. Although the company is confident it will reach an agreement with all or a majority of the relevant insurance companies, some or all insurance companies may refuse to enter into such agreements and, in such event, the company may be required to file lawsuits to force the insurance companies to accept the terms of the agreement. The time required to litigate the lawsuit and the risk of an adverse outcome may adversely impact the revenue and profit realized from these operations. Complications may result from hearing aid use, and we may incur significant expense if we are sued for product liability. Although we have not experienced any significant product liability issues to date, we may be held liable if any product we develop causes injury or is found otherwise unsuitable. If we are sued for an injury caused by our products, the resulting liability could result in significant expense beyond our products liability insurance limits, which would harm our operating results. If we fail to comply with Food and Drug Administration regulations or various sales-related laws, we may suffer fines, injunctions or other penalties. Our products are subject to regulation in the U.S. by the FDA and similar entities in other countries. We must comply with facility registration and product listing requirements of the FDA and similar entities and adhere to the FDA’s Quality System Regulations. Noncompliance with applicable FDA and similar entities’ requirements can result in fines, injunctions, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production or criminal prosecution. We must also maintain compliance with federal, state and foreign laws regarding sales incentives, techniques, referrals and other programs, some of which are unclear or may be read broadly enough to prohibit standard sales programs such as discounts, free training or “frequent buyer” awards. While we intend to comply with the law in each of these jurisdictions, if our practices, or those of a competitor, were to attract unfavorable press or governmental attention, our sales could be adversely affected or we could be subject to fines or governmental injunctions. 15 There may be sales of our stock by our directors and officers, and these sales could cause our stock price to fall. Sales of our stock by our directors and officers, or the perception that such sales will occur, could adversely affect the market price of our stock. Some of our officers have adopted trading plans under SEC Rule 10b5-1 in order to dispose of a portion of their stock in an orderly manner. Other officers or directors may adopt such a trading plan in the future. Provisions in our charter documents, our shareholders rights plan and Delaware law may deter takeover efforts that shareholders feel would be beneficial to shareholder value. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, shareholder rights plan and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it harder for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. While we believe these provisions provide for an opportunity to receive a higher bid by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some shareholders, and a takeover bid otherwise favored by a majority of our shareholders might be rejected by our board of directors. ITEM 1-B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 