Item 1A. Risk Factors. RISKS RELATING TO TIME WARNER GENERALLY The Company must respond to recent and future changes in technology, services, standards and consumer behavior to remain competitive and continue to increase its revenues. Technology, particularly digital technology used in the entertainment and media industry, continues to evolve rapidly, and advances in that technology have led to alternative methods for the distribution, storage and consumption of digital content. These technological changes have driven and reinforced changes in consumer behavior as consumers increasingly seek control over when, where and how they consume content digitally. For example, consumer electronic innovations have enabled consumers to view Internet-delivered content, including films, television programming and magazines, on televisions, computers, tablets, phones and other portable electronic devices. These changes in technology and consumer behavior have resulted in a number of challenges and risks for content owners and aggregators, such as the Company. For example, the growing number of content aggregators increases competition for programming and consumers’ leisure and entertainment time and discretionary spending, and the increased availability of programming online from content aggregators may diminish the perceived value of such programming in other distribution windows and negatively affect consumers’ decisions to purchase such programming. The Company’s failure to adapt to emerging technologies and changes in consumer behavior could have a significant adverse effect on the Company’s competitive position and its businesses and results of operations. Technological developments also pose other challenges for the Company that could adversely affect its revenues and competitive position. For example, the Company may not have the right, or be able to secure the right, to distribute content it licenses from others digitally or across new delivery platforms or devices that are developed. Furthermore, advances in technology or changes in competitors’ product and service offerings may require the Company to make additional research and development expenditures or offer products or services in a digital format 18 Table of Contents without charge or at a lower price than offered in other formats. New technology or business initiatives supported by the Company may not be embraced by consumers or advertisers, and therefore may not develop into profitable business models, which could have a significant adverse effect on the Company’s competitive position and its businesses and results of operations. In addition, new delivery platforms could lead to the loss of distribution control and the loss of direct relationships with consumers. The Company faces risks relating to competition for the leisure and entertainment time and discretionary spending of consumers, which has intensified in part due to advances in technology and changes in consumer behavior. The Company’s businesses are subject to risks relating to increasing competition for the leisure and entertainment time and discretionary spending of consumers. The Company’s businesses compete with each other and all other sources of entertainment, news and other information, including broadcast television, films, the Internet, home video products, interactive videogames, social networking, sports, print media, live events and radio broadcasts, for consumers’ leisure and entertainment time and discretionary spending. Technological advancements, such as tablets and other portable electronic devices, video-on-demand, new video formats and Internet streaming and downloading, have increased the number of media and entertainment choices available to consumers and intensified the challenges posed by audience fragmentation. The increasing number of leisure and entertainment choices available to consumers, including low-cost or free choices, could negatively affect consumer demand for the Company’s products and services, the prices content aggregators are willing to pay to license the Company’s content and advertisers’ willingness to purchase advertising from the Company’s businesses, which could reduce the Company’s revenues and could also result in the Company incurring additional marketing expenses. The popularity of the Company’s content is difficult to predict and could lead to fluctuations in the Company’s revenues, and low public acceptance of the Company’s content may adversely affect its results of operations. The production and distribution of television programming, films, interactive videogames, magazines and other content are inherently risky businesses, largely because the revenues derived from the production, distribution and licensing of such content depend primarily on its acceptance by the public, which is difficult to predict. As more cable networks and premium pay television services produce and acquire more original programming, the Networks segment faces increasing pressure to produce and acquire more new compelling programming. With the scheduled theatrical release of the final Harry Potter film in 2011, the Filmed Entertainment segment faces increasing pressure to develop new franchises or extend current franchises. Public acceptance of new original television programming and new theatrical films and interactive videogames is particularly difficult to predict, which heightens the risks associated with such content. The public acceptance of the Company’s content depends on many factors, only some of which are within the Company’s control. Examples include the quality and acceptance of competing content, including locally produced content, available or released at or near the same time, the availability of alternative forms of leisure and entertainment time activities, the adequacy of efforts to limit piracy, the Company’s ability to develop strong brand awareness and target key audience demographics, the Company’s ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in consumer tastes and behavior on a timely basis and general economic conditions. If the Company is not able to create and distribute content, products and services that earn consumer acceptance, the Company’s revenues and its results of operations could be adversely affected. The popularity of the Company’s content is reflected in (1) the theatrical performance of the Filmed Entertainment segment’s films, (2) the ratings for the television programming produced by the Filmed Entertainment segment and the syndicated, licensed and original programming of the Networks segment, (3) the Publishing segment’s magazine circulation and (4) the number of unique visitors to the Company’s many websites. Historically, there has been a correlation between a theatrical film’s domestic box office success and international box office success, as well as a correlation between box office success and success in subsequent distribution channels. Consequently, the underperformance of a film, particularly an “event” film (which typically has high production and marketing costs) or a film that is part of a franchise, can have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations in both the year of release and in the future. A film’s underperformance may also adversely affect revenues from other distribution channels, such as home entertainment and pay television services, and sales of interactive videogames and licensed consumer products based on such film. In addition, due to the decline in the sales of DVDs, the success of a theatrical film is much more dependent on public acceptance at the box office. A decline in the ratings or audience delivery of the television programming produced by the Filmed 19 Table of Contents Entertainment segment or shown by Turner can negatively affect license fees, syndication results, advertising demand and rates, affiliate fees and a network’s distribution potential. For Home Box Office, a decline in the popularity of its television programming can negatively affect license fees, syndication results, affiliate fees and the distribution potential of its premium pay television services. For the Publishing segment, a decrease in magazine circulation or the number of unique visitors for its websites can lead to lower advertising demand and rates. The Company’s businesses operate in highly competitive industries. The businesses in the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments face intense competition from many different sources, and the ability of these businesses to compete successfully depends on many factors, including their ability to provide high-quality, popular content, adapt to new technologies and distribution platforms, respond to changes in consumer behavior and achieve widespread distribution. Consolidation in the U.S. and international entertainment and media industry also has resulted in increased competition for the Company. In addition, the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments’ competitors include industry participants with interests in other multiple media businesses that are vertically integrated. The Publishing segment faces significant competition from several direct competitors and other media, including the Internet. Moreover, additional competitors may enter the digital publishing business and further intensify competition, which could have an adverse impact on the segment’s revenues. There can be no assurance that the Company and its businesses will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or potential competitors. The failure to compete successfully may have an adverse effect on the Company’s businesses or results of operations. The Company has been in the recent past, and may continue to be, adversely affected by weak economic and market conditions. The Company’s businesses have been, and in the future will continue to be, affected by economic and market conditions, including factors such as the rate of unemployment, the level of consumer confidence, changes in consumer spending habits, and interest rates. Because many of the Company’s products and services are largely discretionary items, the deterioration of the economy in the U.S. or key international markets could diminish demand for the Company’s products and services and adversely affect the Company’s subscription and content revenues. In addition, expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting general economic conditions. The deterioration of these conditions could adversely affect the Company’s revenues since the Networks and Publishing segments derive a substantial portion of their revenues from the sale of advertising on a variety of platforms. Although the print advertising market has improved in 2010, there continues to be a risk that the print advertising market will not continue to improve, or it may take several years for any further improvement to occur. Declines in consumer spending due to weak economic conditions could also indirectly impact the Company’s advertising revenues by causing downward pricing pressure on advertising because advertisers may not perceive as much value from advertising if consumers are purchasing fewer of their products or services. The Company derives a significant portion of its advertising revenues from companies in certain sectors of the economy, including food and beverage, financial/business services and insurance, automotive, motion picture, pharmaceuticals and medical, apparel, fashion and retail, toiletries and cosmetics, telecommunications, and household products and travel. Any economic, political, social, technological or legal or regulatory change (including change due to pressure from public interest groups) resulting in a significant reduction in the advertising spending of these sectors could further adversely affect the Company’s advertising revenues or its ability to maintain or increase such revenues. The Company also faces risks associated with the impact of economic and market conditions on third parties, such as advertisers, suppliers, retailers, insurers and other parties with which it does business. If these parties file for reorganization under bankruptcy laws or otherwise experience negative effects on their businesses due to the market and economic conditions, it could reduce the number of outlets for the Company’s DVD, Blu-ray Disc and magazine products and otherwise negatively affect the Company’s businesses or operating results. The Company faces risks relating to doing business internationally that could adversely affect its businesses and operating results. The Company’s businesses operate and serve customers worldwide. There are risks inherent in doing business internationally, including: • economic volatility; • inflationary pressures; 20 Table of Contents • the requirements of local laws, regulations, industry practices and customs relating to the publication and distribution of content and the display and sale of advertising; • risks related to government regulation, including import or export restrictions and changes in trade regulations; • issues related to occupational safety and adherence to diverse local labor laws and regulations; • potentially adverse tax developments; • longer payment cycles; • political or social unrest; • the existence in some countries of statutory shareholder minority rights and restrictions on foreign direct ownership; • the presence of corruption in certain countries; and • higher than anticipated costs of entry. One or more of these factors could harm the Company’s international operations and its operating results. In addition, certain of the Company’s operations are conducted in foreign currencies. The value of these currencies fluctuates relative to the U.S. dollar. As a result, the Company is exposed to exchange rate fluctuations, which have in the past had, and could in the future have, an adverse effect on its results of operations in a given period. The Company’s international businesses are also subject to exchange control regulations, and the Company cannot predict the extent to which such controls may affect its ability to convert a foreign currency to U.S. dollars and remit U.S. dollars from abroad. Further, the Company could be at a competitive disadvantage in the long term if its businesses are not able to strengthen their positions and capitalize on international opportunities. However, international expansion involves significant investments, and investments in some regions can take a long period to generate an adequate return. Also, in some countries, there may not be a developed or efficient legal system to protect foreign investment or intellectual property rights. Further, if the Company expands into new international regions, some of its businesses will have only limited experience in operating and marketing their products and services in such regions and could be at a disadvantage compared to competitors with more experience in such regions. Piracy of the Company’s content may decrease the revenues received from the exploitation of its content and adversely affect its businesses and profitability. The piracy of the Company’s content, products and other intellectual property in the U.S. and internationally poses significant challenges for the Company’s businesses. Technological advances have made it easier to create, transmit and distribute high quality unauthorized copies of content in unprotected digital formats. The proliferation of unauthorized copies and piracy of the Company’s content and products or the products it licenses from third parties could result in a reduction of the revenues that the Company receives from the legitimate sale and distribution of its content and products. The Company devotes substantial resources to protecting its intellectual property, but there can be no assurance that the Company’s efforts to enforce its rights and combat piracy will be successful. The Company’s businesses may suffer if it cannot continue to license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which its businesses depend. The Company relies on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and licenses and other agreements with its employees, customers, suppliers and other parties to establish and maintain its intellectual property rights in content, technology and products and services used to conduct its businesses. However, the Company’s intellectual property rights could be challenged or invalidated, it could have difficulty obtaining such rights or the rights may not be sufficient to permit it to take advantage of business opportunities, which could result in costly redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product and service offerings or other competitive harm. Further, the laws of certain countries do not protect the Company’s proprietary rights or such laws may not be strictly enforced, and the Company may be unable to protect its intellectual property adequately against unauthorized copying or use in certain countries. The Company has been, and may be in the future, subject to claims of intellectual property infringement, which could have an adverse impact on the Company’s businesses or operating results. From time to time, the Company receives notices from others claiming that it infringes their intellectual property rights. Such claims and lawsuits could require the Company to enter into royalty or licensing agreements on unfavorable terms, incur substantial monetary liability or be enjoined preliminarily or permanently from further use of the intellectual 21 Table of Contents property in question. This could require the Company to change its business practices and limit its ability to compete effectively. If the Company is required to take any of these actions, it could have an adverse impact on the Company’s businesses or operating results. Even if the Company believes that the claims are without merit, defending against the claims can be time-consuming and costly and divert management’s attention and resources away from its businesses. The Company is exposed to risks associated with disruption in the financial markets. The Company is exposed to risks associated with disruptions in the financial markets, which can make it more difficult and more expensive to obtain financing. For example, the adoption of new statutes and regulations, the implementation of recently enacted laws or new interpretations or the enforcement of older laws and regulations applicable to the financial markets or the financial services industry could result in a reduction in the amount of available credit or an increase in the cost of credit. In addition, disruptions in the financial markets can adversely affect the Company’s lenders, insurers, customers and counterparties, including vendors, retailers and film co-financing partners. For instance, the inability of the Company’s counterparties to obtain capital on acceptable terms could impair their ability to perform under their agreements with the Company and lead to various negative effects on the Company, including business disruption, decreased revenues, increases in bad debt write-offs and, in the case of film co-financing partners, greater risk with respect to the performance of the Company’s films. The Company’s businesses are subject to labor interruption. The Company and certain of its suppliers retain the services of writers, directors, actors, athletes, technicians, trade employees and others involved in the development and production of motion pictures, television programming and magazines who are covered by collective bargaining agreements. If the Company or its suppliers are unable to renew expiring collective bargaining agreements, it is possible that the affected unions could take actions in the form of strikes, work slowdowns or work stoppages. Such actions or the possibility of such actions, including attempts to unionize, could cause delays in the production or the release dates of the Company’s feature films, television programming and magazines. The Company could also incur higher costs from such actions, new collective bargaining agreements or if collective bargaining agreements are renewed on less favorable terms. In addition, union or labor disputes or player lock-outs relating to professional sports leagues could have a negative impact on the Networks segment’s subscription and advertising revenues. The Company’s businesses rely heavily on network and information systems or other technology, and a disruption or failure of such networks, systems or technology as a result of computer viruses, misappropriation of data or other malfeasance, as well as outages, natural disasters, accidental releases of information or similar events, may disrupt the Company’s businesses, damage its reputation or have a negative impact on its revenues. Because network and information systems and other technologies are critical to many of the Company’s operating activities, network or information system shutdowns or service disruptions pose increasing risks. Such disruptions may be caused by events such as computer hacking, dissemination of computer viruses, worms and other destructive or disruptive software, denial of service attacks and other malicious activity, as well as power outages, natural disasters, failures or impairments of communication satellites or on-ground uplinks or downlinks used to transmit programming, terrorist attacks and similar events. Such events could have an adverse impact on the Company and its customers, including degradation or disruption of service and damage to equipment and data. Significant incidents could result in a disruption of the Company’s operations, customer dissatisfaction, or a loss of customers or revenues. Furthermore, the operating activities of the Company’s various businesses could be subject to risks caused by misappropriation, misuse, leakage, falsification or accidental release or loss of information maintained in the information technology systems and networks of the Company and third party vendors, including personnel, customer and vendor data. The Company could be exposed to significant costs if such risks were to materialize, and such events could result in violations of data privacy laws and regulations and damage the reputation and credibility of the Company and its businesses and have a negative impact on its revenues. The Company also could be required to expend significant money and other resources to remedy any such security breach or to repair or replace networks or information systems. The Company’s businesses are subject to regulation in the U.S. and internationally, which could cause the Company to incur additional costs or liabilities or disrupt its business practices. The Company’s businesses are subject to a variety of U.S. and international laws and regulations. Television networks (including those operated by the Networks segment) in the U.S. are regulated by U.S. federal laws and regulations issued and administered by 22 Table of Contents various federal agencies, including the FCC. The Publishing segment’s U.S. magazine subscription and direct marketing activities are subject to regulation by the FTC and the states under general consumer protection statutes prohibiting unfair or deceptive acts or practices, and certain areas of marketing activity are also subject to specific federal statutes and rules. In addition, the rules of the Audit Bureau of Circulations govern the Publishing segment’s U.S. magazine subscription activities. The Company’s digital properties and activities are subject to a variety of laws and regulations, including those relating to privacy, consumer protection, data retention and protection, content regulation and the use of software that allows for audience targeting and tracking of performance metrics, among others. See Item 1, “Business — Regulation” for a description of current significant federal, state, local and international laws, regulations inquiries and regulatory proceedings affecting the growth and operation of the Company’s businesses. The Company could incur substantial costs necessary to comply with new laws, regulations or policies or substantial penalties or other liabilities if it fails to comply with them. Compliance with new laws, regulations or policies also could cause the Company to change or limit its business practices in a manner that is adverse to its businesses. In addition, if there are changes in laws that provide protections that the Company relies on in conducting its business, it would subject the Company to greater risk of liability and could increase its costs of compliance or limit its ability to operate certain lines of business. If the AOL Separation or the TWC Separation is determined to be taxable for income tax purposes, Time Warner and/or Time Warner’s stockholders who received shares of AOL or TWC in connection with the spin-offs could incur significant income tax liabilities. In connection with the legal and structural separation of AOL Inc. (“AOL”) from the Company in December 2009 (the “AOL Separation”), Time Warner received an opinion of counsel confirming that the AOL Separation will not result in the recognition, for U.S. Federal income tax purposes, of gain or loss to Time Warner or its stockholders, except to the extent of cash received in lieu of fractional shares. In connection with the legal and structural separation of Time Warner Cable Inc. (“TWC”) from the Company in March 2009 (the “TWC Separation”), Time Warner received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and opinions of counsel confirming that the TWC Separation should not result in the recognition, for U.S. Federal income tax purposes, of gain or loss to Time Warner or its stockholders, except to the extent of cash received in lieu of fractional shares. The IRS ruling and the opinions received in connection with these transactions were based on, among other things, certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings made by Time Warner and by AOL or TWC, as applicable. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is incorrect or not otherwise satisfied, Time Warner and its stockholders may not be able to rely on the relevant IRS ruling or opinion and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. Furthermore, opinions of counsel are not binding on the IRS or state or local tax authorities or the courts, and a tax authority or court could determine that the AOL Separation or the TWC Separation should be treated as a taxable transaction. Under the tax matters agreement that Time Warner entered into with AOL, Time Warner is entitled to indemnification from AOL for taxes resulting from the failure of the AOL Separation to qualify as tax-free (“AOL Transaction Taxes”) as a result of (i) certain actions or failures to act by AOL or (ii) the failure of certain representations made by AOL to be true. Similarly, under the tax matters agreement that Time Warner entered into with TWC, Time Warner is entitled to indemnification from TWC for taxes resulting from the failure of the TWC Separation to qualify as tax-free (“TWC Transaction Taxes” and, together with the AOL Transaction Taxes, the “Transaction Taxes”) as a result of (i) certain actions or failures to act by TWC or (ii) the failure of certain representations made by TWC to be true. However, under these tax matters agreements, if Transaction Taxes are incurred for any other reason, Time Warner would not be entitled to indemnification. RISKS RELATING TO TIME WARNER’S NETWORKS BUSINESSES The failure to renew affiliate agreements on favorable terms or the inability to renew affiliate agreements could cause the revenues of the Networks segment to decline in any given period, and further consolidation of multichannel video programming distributors could adversely affect the segment. The Networks segment depends on affiliate agreements with cable system operators, satellite distribution services, telephone companies and other customers (known as affiliates) for the distribution of its networks and services, and there can be no assurance that these affiliate agreements will be renewed in the future on terms that are acceptable to the Networks segment. The inability to renew affiliate agreements or the renewal of affiliate agreements on less 23 Table of Contents favorable terms may adversely affect the segment’s results of operations. In addition, the loss of carriage on the most widely penetrated programming tiers, including as a result of an affiliate’s creation of lower-priced video packages or tiers that do not include the segment’s cable networks, could reduce the distribution of the segment’s programming and adversely affect its advertising and subscription revenues. Further, the reduction of any affiliate marketing of the Network segment’s premium pay television services could negatively affect the segment’s subscription revenues. In addition, further consolidation among affiliates has provided them greater negotiating power, and increased vertical integration of such affiliates could adversely affect the segment’s ability to maintain or obtain distribution and/or marketing for its networks and services on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The inability of the Networks segment to license rights to popular programming on acceptable terms could adversely affect the segment’s operating results. Turner obtains a significant portion of its programming, such as motion pictures, television series and sports events, from movie studios, television production companies and sports organizations. In addition, Home Box Office has agreements with certain movie studios that provide it with the exclusive rights to exhibit the studios’ original theatrical films during specified periods. Competition for popular programming is intense, and the businesses in the segment may be outbid by their competitors for the rights to programming or in connection with the renewal of programming they currently license and the cost to license such programming may increase due to such competition. There can be no assurance that the Networks segment will be able to enter into new agreements or renew existing agreements for programming on acceptable terms. If it is unable to obtain such new agreements or renewals on acceptable terms, the results of operations of the Networks segment may be adversely affected. In addition, the Networks segment may not be able to obtain the rights to distribute the content it licenses from others over new distribution platforms on acceptable terms. Increases in the costs to produce programming may adversely affect the gross margins at the Networks segment. The Networks segment produces programming and it incurs costs for creative talent, including actors, writers and producers, as well as costs relating to development and marketing. The segment also incurs additional significant costs, such as production and newsgathering costs. The Networks segment’s failure to generate sufficient revenues to offset increases in the costs of creative talent or in development, marketing, production or newsgathering costs may lead to decreased profits at the Networks segment. The loss of subscribers could adversely affect the results of operations and future revenue growth at the Networks segment. The Networks segment faces increased competition from services that distribute movies, television shows and other video programming directly to consumers, including by means of online services that offer video streaming or other means of distribution. If consumers elect to utilize these services as an alternative to video services provided by affiliates, the networks in the segment may experience a decline in subscribers. Further, if video services rates charged by affiliates continue to increase or economic conditions deteriorate, consumers may cancel their video service subscriptions, reduce the number of services they subscribe to or elect to subscribe to a lower-priced tier that may not include all of the Company’s networks. In addition, if affiliates reduce their promotional efforts associated with the Company’s premium pay television services, the number of subscribers to such services could decline. A decrease in the number of subscribers to the Networks segment’s networks and services could result in a decrease in affiliate fees and advertising revenues. RISKS RELATING TO TIME WARNER’S FILMED ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESSES Sales of DVDs have been declining, which may adversely affect Warner Bros.’ growth prospects and results of operations. Several factors are contributing to an industry-wide decline in DVD sales both domestically and internationally, which has had an adverse effect on Warner Bros.’ results of operations. These factors include challenging economic conditions, the maturation of the standard definition DVD format, piracy, intense competition for consumer discretionary spending and leisure and entertainment time and the declining popularity of catalog titles. Subscription rental (including subscription streaming services) and discount rental kiosks, which generate significantly less revenue for Warner Bros. than DVD sales, have been capturing an increasing share of consumer transactions and consumer discretionary spending, which has adversely affected DVD prices and sales and could adversely affect Warner Bros.’ ability to increase revenues from the electronic delivery of its films and television programming. 24 Table of Contents A decrease in demand for television programming could adversely affect Warner Bros.’ revenues. Warner Bros. is a leading supplier of television programming. If there is a decrease in the demand for Warner Bros.’ television product, it could lead to the launch of fewer new television series and a reduction in the number of original programs ordered by the networks, the per-episode license fees generated by Warner Bros. in the near term and the syndication revenues generated by Warner Bros. in the future. Various factors may increase the risk of such a decrease in demand, including station group consolidation and vertical integration of station groups and broadcast networks, as well as the vertical integration of television production studios and broadcast networks. Vertically integrated networks could increase the amount of programming they purchase from production companies with which they are affiliated, driven in part by their desire to have more control over digital rights. In addition, the failure of ratings for the programming to meet expectations and the shift of viewers and advertisers away from network television to other entertainment and information outlets could adversely affect the amount and type (e.g., scripted drama) of original programming ordered by networks and the amount they are willing to pay for such programming or could result in a network’s cancellation of a program. Local television stations may face loss of viewership and an accompanying loss of advertising revenues as viewers move to other entertainment outlets, which may negatively affect the segment’s ability to obtain the per-episode license fees in syndication that it has received in the past. Finally, the increasing popularity of local television content in international regions also could result in decreased demand, fewer available broadcast slots, and lower licensing and syndication revenues for U.S. television content in international regions. If the costs of producing and marketing feature films increase in the future, it may be more difficult for a film to generate a profit. The production and marketing of feature films is very expensive and has been increasing in recent years. The increasing popularity of 3D films and the trend toward producing event and franchise films (which often entail higher talent costs for films later in the series) could result in even higher production costs. If production and marketing costs continue to increase in the future, it may make it more difficult for the segment’s films to generate a profit. Also, if film production incentives, such as subsidies and rebates, currently offered in certain U.S. states and international territories (particularly the United Kingdom) are reduced or discontinued, Warner Bros.’ capital requirements for production would increase. Changes in estimates of future revenues from feature films could result in the write-off or the acceleration of the amortization of production costs. Warner Bros. is required to amortize capitalized film production costs over the expected revenue streams as it recognizes revenues from the associated films. The amount of film production costs that will be amortized each quarter depends on how much future revenue Warner Bros. expects to receive from each film. Unamortized film production costs are evaluated for impairment each reporting period on a film-by-film basis. If the estimated remaining revenue is not sufficient to recover the unamortized film production costs plus expected but unincurred marketing costs, the unamortized film production costs are written down to fair value. In any given quarter, if Warner Bros. lowers its forecast with respect to total anticipated revenue from any individual feature film, it would be required to accelerate amortization of related film costs. Such a write-down or accelerated amortization could adversely affect Warner Bros.’ operating results in a given period. RISKS RELATING TO TIME WARNER’S PUBLISHING BUSINESS The Publishing segment could face increased costs and business disruption resulting from instability in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel. The Publishing segment operates a national distribution business that relies on wholesalers to distribute its magazines to newsstands and other retail outlets. A small number of wholesalers are responsible for a substantial percentage of the wholesale magazine distribution business in the U.S. There is the possibility of consolidation among these major wholesalers and insolvency of or non-payment by one or more of these wholesalers, especially in light of the economic climate and its impact on retailers. Distribution channel disruptions can temporarily impede the Publishing segment’s ability to distribute magazines to the retail marketplace, which could, among other things, negatively affect the ability of certain magazines to meet the rate base established with advertisers. Continued disruption in the wholesaler channel, an increase in wholesaler costs or the failure of wholesalers to pay amounts due could adversely affect the Publishing segment’s operating income or cash flow. 25 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 