D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Our limited operating history as a gaming software and services provider and an online games operator, and the unproven long-term potential of those business models make evaluating our business and prospects difficult We acquired our gaming software and service business, CESL, in April 2004 and our online games business, comprised of the game platforms of FunTown and T2CN, in January 2006 and June 2007, respectively. We launched new poker software products in 2004, which generated approximately 18 percent, 56 percent and 75 percent of our total gaming software and service revenues in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. In addition, the senior management teams of our different businesses and our employees have worked together at our Company for only a relatively short period of time. As a result, we have a limited relevant operating history as a gaming software and services developer and an online games operator for you to evaluate. It is also difficult to evaluate our prospective business, because we may not have sufficient experience to address the risks frequently encountered by companies using new and unproven business models and entering new and rapidly evolving markets, including the online gaming and online games markets. These risks may include our potential failure to: • retain existing customers or attract new customers; • license, develop, or acquire additional online games that are appealing to consumers; • anticipate and adapt to changing consumer preferences; • adapt to competitive market conditions; • adapt to regulatory changes; • respond to technological changes or resolve unexpected service interruptions in a timely manner; • adequately and efficiently operate, upgrade and develop our transaction and service platforms; or 4 Table of Contents • maintain adequate control of our expenses. If we are unsuccessful in addressing any of the risks listed above, our business and financial condition will be adversely affected. Our businesses face intense competition, which may adversely affect our revenues, profitability and planned business expansion We face competition from many competitors, and we expect to face additional competition from potential competitors, including those with: • significantly greater technological, financial, sales and marketing resources; • larger customer bases and longer operating histories; • greater name recognition; and • more established relationships with distribution partners, advertisers, content and application providers and/or other strategic partners. Competition in the gaming software and service business The Internet gaming software industry is characterized by rapid technological change, and we face significant and intense competition from online gaming software design houses and application service providers. Given the relatively low barriers to entry into the software industry and the increasing popularity of Internet-based businesses, we face a large number of potential competitors from many different segments of the software and Internet industries. Traditional entertainment service providers, many of which have financial resources significantly greater than ours, might elect to provide Internet-based entertainment services. Such Internet service providers and other entertainment service providers could also develop and offer the underlying software solutions and tools to others in direct competition with us. We are also exposed to competition faced in the Internet gaming industry by our licensees, such as Ultra Internet Media, S.A. (“UIM”), as license fees with respect to gaming software provided by us typically include a variable fee based on revenues earned by such licensees from the operation of the licensed software. Our major licensee is UIM, a provider of Internet gaming services. Although we do not have any equity ownership interest in UIM, in accordance with FIN 46(R) we consolidate its assets, liabilities and results of operations in our financial statements and are entitled to fees from UIM based upon its revenues. For additional information, see Item 5, “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — A. Operating Results — Certain Significant Events Affecting Our Results of Operations for 2005, 2006 and 2007 — Consolidation of UIM, T2 Entertainment and T2 Advertisement under FIN 46(R).” Our licensees (including UIM), face strong competition in the online gaming industry. Furthermore, some of our competitors and competitors of our licensees (including UIM) are more established, enjoy greater market recognition, are substantially larger and have substantially greater resources and distribution capabilities than we do. There is no assurance that we or our licensees (including UIM) will be able to compete successfully with existing and future competitors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. See Item 4, “Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Gaming Software and Service Business — Competition” for additional information. Finally, as a result of the Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act (the “UIGEA”) and subsequent closing of the online gaming market in the United States, we and our licensees (including UIM) face increasing competition from entertainment service providers in our markets in Continental Europe, which are also increasingly subject to regulation from governmental authorities. There is no assurance that we or our licensees (including UIM) will be able to compete successfully with existing and future competitors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. See Item 4, “Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Gaming Software and Service Business — Competition” for additional information. 5 Table of Contents Competition in the online games business Our main competitors in the online games business are online game operators in Taiwan, Hong Kong, the People’s Republic of China (“PRC”) and Macau, or Greater China, including Shanda Interactive Entertainment Ltd. (“Shanda”), Giant Interactive Group, Inc., The9 Limited, Nineyou (Shanghai Everstar Online Entertainment Co., Ltd.), Tencent Holdings Limited, Ourgames.com (Beijing Globalink Computer Technology Co., Ltd.) and Chinagames.net in China, and online game operators in Taiwan, including Gamania Digital Entertainment Co., Ltd. (“Gamania”) and Soft-World International Corporation. We expect more companies to enter the online games industry in Greater China and a wider range of online games to be introduced to the Greater China market. Our competitors vary in size and many have significant financial, marketing and game development resources as well as name recognition. We may not be able to devote the same degree of resources to designing, developing or acquiring new games, undertaking extensive marketing campaigns, adopting aggressive pricing policies, paying high compensation to game developers or compensating independent game developers as a number of our competitors may be able to do. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against any new or existing competitors. As a result of the above, the increased competition we anticipate in the online games industry may reduce the number of our users or the growth rate of our user base, reduce the average number of hours played by our users, or cause us to reduce usage fees. All of these competitive factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition in the Internet access service business Our main competitors in the retail broadband Internet service provider (“ISP”) business are fixed-line service providers and other ISPs in Taiwan that offer asymmetrical digital subscriber line (“ADSL”) broadband services, including Chunghwa Telecom’s HiNet, the overwhelmingly dominant provider of broadband services; Taiwan Fixed Network, a fixed-line service provider; and Seednet, SoNet and Asia Pacific Online, which are all ISPs. Our competitors also include cable-based Internet access companies that have developed their own cable-based services and market those services to cable operators, and those that are seeking to contract with cable operators to bring their services into geographic areas that are not covered by an exclusive relationship between our Company and our cable partners. Our corporate ISP business faces competition from fixed-line service providers, including Chunghwa Telecom, Taiwan Fixed Network, NCIC’s Sparq and Asia Pacific Online. The primary basis of competition in the Internet access business industry is price. We can offer no assurance that we will be able to attract new subscribers or retain existing subscribers, as a result of which our revenues may decline. All of these competitive factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In recent years, we have experienced a reduction in the number of our new consumer subscribers and total consumer subscribers, in line with our ongoing strategy to shift resources away from this legacy business. Consistent with our focus on online entertainment, we have retained financial advisors to explore the sale of this legacy business. Our business could suffer if we do not successfully manage current growth and potential future growth We are pursuing a number of growth strategies, including leveraging our customer base to develop additional sources of revenues and exploring opportunities to expand into new gaming software and service business segments. Some of these strategies relate to new services or products for which there are no established markets, or relate to services, products or markets in which we lack experience and expertise. We are also expanding our online poker software business into new European markets such as Greece, Poland, Finland and Hungary. We cannot assure you that we will be able to deliver new products or services on a commercially viable basis or in a timely manner, or at all. Our growth to date has placed, and our anticipated further expansion of our operations, including a significant expansion of our headcount, will continue to place, a significant strain on our management, systems and resources. In addition to training and managing our workforce, we will need to continue to develop and improve our financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures, including those of acquired businesses. We cannot assure you that we will be able to efficiently or effectively manage the growth of our operations, and any failure to do so may limit our future growth and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We expect the marketing costs for our gaming software and service business to continue to increase, which could have an adverse effect on our business Our selling and marketing costs have been increasing rapidly, primarily due to increasing competition in our core markets, the lack of available new markets and the high level of advertising by our competitors in Europe. These costs increased by 126 percent, from 6 Table of Contents US$22.1 million in 2006 to US$50.0 million in 2007. We expect that we will need to continue to significantly increase our marketing expenses for our gaming software and service business, which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. Our business strategy, which contemplates growth through acquisitions and strategic investments, exposes us to significant risks As a component of our growth strategy, we intend to continue to enhance our business development, including our game content offerings, by acquiring other businesses that complement our current online businesses, or which represent related but new lines of business that we believe to be appropriate areas of expansion, or that we believe may benefit us in terms of user base, product or content offering. We also intend to make selective strategic investments. We will continue to examine the merits, risks and feasibility of potential transactions, and expect to search for additional acquisition opportunities in the future. Such search and examination efforts, and any related discussions with third parties, may or may not lead to future acquisitions and investments. Our reported financial results may be affected by any such acquisitions and/or investments, including any acquisitions or dispositions undertaken by us in anticipation of or in connection with any such acquisitions and/or investments. Our ability to grow through such acquisitions and investments will depend on the availability of suitable acquisition candidates at an acceptable cost, our ability to reach agreement with acquisition candidates or investee companies on commercially reasonable terms, the availability of financing to complete larger acquisitions or investments and our ability to obtain any required governmental approvals. In addition, the benefits of an acquisition or investment transaction may take considerable time to develop and we cannot assure you that any particular acquisition or investment will produce the intended benefits. Furthermore, the identification and completion of any acquisition or investment may require us to expend significant management and other resources, and may require that we expend a significant portion of our cash reserves and/or issue a substantial amount of new equity, which could adversely affect our financial condition and liquidity and result in significant dilution of our shareholders’ interests. The impact of dilution may restrict our ability to consummate further acquisitions. We may also incur debt and losses related to the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets upon or following the acquisition of another business, which could negatively impact our results of operations. As of December 31, 2007, we carried US$85.1 million of goodwill, including the goodwill recorded in connection with our acquisition of T2CN. Any write-off of goodwill in the future may have a negative impact on our financial results. Additional risks associated with acquisitions include, but are not limited to, the following: • It may be difficult to assimilate the operations and personnel of an acquired business into our organization; • Management, information, and accounting systems of an acquired business may be different from our current systems and need to be successfully integrated; • Our management must devote its attention to assimilating acquired businesses, which diverts attention from other business concerns; • Suppliers, vendors and/or distributors may renegotiate or cancel contracts with us following the acquisition of a business; • We may enter markets in which we have limited prior experience. For example, in December 2006, we entered into a strategic alliance with Infocomm Asia Holdings Pte Ltd (“Infocomm Asia”), an online gaming operator and distributor operating primarily in the Southeast Asia region. In addition, in June 2007, we also acquired control of a majority of the voting rights over the shares of T2CN, an online casual sports game operator in China, a market in which we had limited prior experience; and • We could lose some of our key employees or key employees of an acquired business. 7 Table of Contents Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties, and the expenses incurred in protecting our intellectual property rights, may adversely affect our business We regard our copyrights, service marks, trademarks, trade secrets, patents and other intellectual property as critical to our success. Unauthorized use of the intellectual property, whether owned by us or licensed to us, could adversely affect our business and reputation. We rely on trademark, patent and copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements with our employees, customers, business partners and others to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for third parties to obtain and use the intellectual property used in our business without authorization. The validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property in Internet-related industries are uncertain and evolving. In particular, the laws and enforcement procedures of Taiwan, Hong Kong, the PRC and certain other countries are uncertain or do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws and enforcement procedures of the United States. Moreover, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights. Future litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, which could disrupt our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations are subject to significant fluctuations Our revenues, expenses and results of operations have varied in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. The key factors affecting our businesses include, but are not limited to: • Gaming software and service business: availability of Internet infrastructure, competition from existing and new competitors, the revenues, expenses and results of operations of our customer and major licensee, UIM, and the regulatory restrictions applicable to the Internet gaming industry. • Online games business: existing and new competitors, the pace of rollout of new games and price competition in the industry, regulatory and other risks arising in connection with our China operations. • Internet access service business: price competition in the Internet access business, the rate at which new customers subscribe to our services, subscriber turnover rates and the pace of rollout of our services. In addition, our operating expenses are based on our expectations of the future demand for our services and are relatively fixed in the short term. We may be unable to adjust spending quickly enough to offset any unexpected demand shortfall. A shortfall in revenues in relation to our expenses could have a material and adverse effect on our business and financial results. The markets for our principal businesses are characterized by rapid technological change, and failure to respond quickly and sufficiently to new Internet technologies or standards may have a material adverse effect on our business The markets for our gaming software and service business, online games business and Internet access service business are characterized by rapid technological advances, evolving industry standards, changes in user requirements and frequent new service introductions and enhancements. The online gaming and online games industries, in particular, are subject to rapid technological change. We need to anticipate the emergence of new technologies and games, assess their acceptance and make appropriate investments accordingly. If we are unable to do so, new technologies in online gaming and online games programming or operations could render our gaming software and online games obsolete or unattractive. We use internally developed software systems that support nearly all aspects of our billing and payment transactions in our online games business. All of our businesses may be adversely affected if we are unable to upgrade our systems quickly enough to accommodate future traffic levels, to avoid obsolescence or to successfully integrate any newly developed or acquired technology with our existing systems. Capacity constraints could cause unanticipated system disruptions and slower response times, affecting data transmission and game play. These factors could, among other things, cause us to lose existing or potential customers and existing or potential game development partners. 8 Table of Contents Our revenues from our Internet access and service business declined from approximately US$20.6 million in 2006 to US$15.2 million in 2007, mainly due to a decrease in the number of consumer subscribers and a corresponding decrease in revenues from such customers. If we are unable to effectively use leading technologies, continue to develop our technological expertise, enhance our current services and continue to improve the performance, features and reliability of our products and services, or we are unable to respond quickly and sufficiently to new technologies or standards, we may not be able to attract new customers and our business and financial results may be materially and adversely affected. Our gaming software and service business, online games business, and Internet access and service business depend on the reliability of our network infrastructure, which is subject to physical, technological, security and other risks The development and operation of our online networks are subject to physical, technological, security and other risks which may result in interruption in service or reduced capacity for customers. These risks include physical damage, power loss, telecommunications failure, capacity limitation, hardware or software failures or defects and breaches of security by computer viruses, break-ins or otherwise. The occurrence of any of these events could result in interruptions, delays or cessation in service to users of our online services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. For example, in February 2007, an earthquake off the coast of Taiwan damaged several undersea optic-fiber cables linking countries such as Malaysia, Singapore, Australia, Japan, South Korea, China, the United States and Europe, causing disruptions in Internet traffic worldwide. An increase in the volume of usage of online services could strain the capacity of our software and hardware employed, which could result in slower response time or system failures. We do not have redundant facilities in the event of an emergency, but we have a variety of backup servers at our primary site to deal with possible system failures. While we have implemented industry-standard security measures, our network may still be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, denial of service attacks and other disruptive problems. A party that is able to circumvent security measures could misappropriate proprietary information and, perhaps, most importantly, cause interruptions in our operations. Internet and online service providers have, in the past, experienced and may, in the future, experience interruptions in service as a result of the accidental or intentional actions of Internet users, current and former employees or others. We may be required to expend significant capital or other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. There can be no assurance that any measures implemented will not be circumvented in the future. The adoption of new laws or changes to or the application of existing laws relating to Internet commerce may affect the growth of our gaming software and services and online games businesses In addition to regulations pertaining specifically to online entertainment, we may become subject to a number of laws and regulations that may be adopted with respect to the Internet and electronic commerce. New laws and regulations that address issues such as user privacy, pricing, online content, taxation, advertising, intellectual property, information security, and the characteristics and quality of online products and services may be enacted. For example, in order to counter alleged Internet addiction, in March 2007, the PRC government prohibited the opening of any new Internet cafés for the rest of 2007, and in April 2007, it issued regulations to discourage online game-players who are minors from spending excessive amounts of time playing online games. Pursuant to these regulations, Internet game operators have been ordered to install anti-addiction software features on games offered in the PRC, which will (among other features) limit the number of points and other benefits which can be awarded to game players after they have been online in excess of specified periods of time. Internet game operators will also be required to adopt real-name registration, which will require online game players to register their real identity information before they will be allowed to play online games. Current laws, which predate or are incompatible with Internet commerce, may also be enforced in a manner that restricts the electronic commerce market. In addition, the application of such pre-existing laws regulating communications or commerce in the context of the Internet and electronic commerce is uncertain. The adoption of new laws or regulations relating to the Internet, or particular applications or interpretations of existing laws, could decrease the growth in the use of the Internet, decrease the demand for our products and services, increase the cost of conducting our business or could otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. The worldwide legal and regulatory environment in which our gaming software and service business operates is characterized by uncertainties that could adversely affect our business and operating results Our gaming software and service business includes software development and the provision of application services for Internet gaming. We license our gaming software to operators of online gaming businesses and to UIM, which also sub-licenses our software products to third parties. Fees earned by us are based on the revenues earned from the operation of the licensed software. Each of these businesses is subject to applicable laws and regulations relating to online gaming and electronic commerce in various jurisdictions throughout the world, and it is in many cases uncertain which governments have authority to legislate or regulate different aspects of 9 Table of Contents these industries. Moreover, the Internet gaming industry is still in an early stage of development and the worldwide legal and regulatory environment in which the businesses operate remains highly fluid and subject to change. While most foreign jurisdictions have some form of legal framework applicable to games of chance, few provide clear guidance on how this framework applies to Internet gaming. Issues such as determining the physical location of a gaming event and significant differences among the gaming laws and “Cyberlaws” of various countries all make traditional concepts of jurisdiction and conflicts of laws difficult to apply. In addition, the very nature of Internet gaming creates new and unique forms of entertainment that were neither contemplated nor feasible in the past. Due to the uncertainties in the worldwide legal and regulatory environment in which our gaming software business operates and the potential for aggressive legal steps by certain governments to protect online gaming business in their jurisdictions, we cannot assure you that our operations as an application service provider to the gaming industry, or the Internet gaming services provided by our licensees (including UIM), are in compliance with all laws and regulations of the jurisdictions where our gaming software products are used, or that changes in such laws and regulations, or in their interpretation, will not adversely affect our business and operating results. UIM, our major licensee, currently holds a gaming license issued by the Kahnawake Gaming Commission in Canada. However, certain jurisdictions in which UIM operates may require local licensing in the future, and there can be no assurance that it will be successful in its efforts to obtain a gaming license from these jurisdictions, and that as a result UIM would not face the potential loss of key partners and service providers. Also, the substantial uncertainties in the global regulatory environment relating to online gaming expose us to the risk that regulatory authorities in various jurisdictions will determine that our Company provides online gaming services (rather than only providing software and application services to our licensees) and thus subject our Company to gaming laws and regulations in such jurisdictions. In Europe, several countries, led by the United Kingdom, have adopted a regulated online gaming approach. Italy has proposed more liberal online gaming regulations and is currently seeking approval by the European Union (“EU”) before becoming enforceable. However, opposing views are present in Europe. Some European countries, where there are state-owned gaming monopolies, primarily related to lotteries and online sports betting, have taken action or introduced legislation aimed at banning foreign online gaming operators, which could have a material adverse effect on our licensees and consequently on our Company. For example, the French governmental authorities have passed legislation effective from March 2007, prohibiting operators other than certain specified state-owned enterprises from operating Internet gaming sites in France. Additionally, the German Interstate Gambling Treaty came into force on January 1, 2008 which seeks a prohibition on the use of the Internet for all gambling services (except horserace betting). Both the French and German legislation call for various forms of ISP blocking or warning pages to be placed on gaming sites, financial transaction blocking and advertising restrictions. As of June 1, 2008, regulations and other necessary actions required to implement these laws and the banking restrictions have not been adopted. Such actions have generally been declared in violation of EU law which governs the EU and its 27 member nations. According to rulings by both the EU Commissioner of Internal Markets and the European Court of Justice, such actions by member nations are illegal violations of the freedom to provide services and of establishment as protected by the Treaty of the European Union. There can be no assurance, however, that the rulings of the European Commission or the European Court of Justice will be enforced in a timely manner without disruption to the business of our licensees (including UIM). Our business is international and therefore faces associated risks There are certain difficulties and inherent risks faced by our licensees (including UIM), in doing business internationally, including the burden of complying with multiple and conflicting regulatory requirements, foreign exchange controls, potential restrictions or tariffs on gaming activities that may be imposed, potentially adverse tax consequences and tax risks. Changes in the political and economic stability, regulatory and taxation structures, and the interpretation thereof, in jurisdictions in which we or our licensees operate, and in which our licensees’ customers are located could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. Our gaming software and service business is dependent on one master licensee, and any adverse effect on its business could have an adverse effect on our revenues, operating results and financial condition All of our revenues from our gaming software and service business have historically been derived from UIM, our master licensee which sub-licenses our software products to third parties. UIM’s revenues are derived principally from online poker. Although we do not have any ownership interest in UIM, we consolidate its assets, liabilities and results of operations in our financial statements and are entitled to fees from UIM based upon its revenues. We do not control its management and hence have no control over its business decisions. In addition, there is significant competition in the online poker industry. There can be no assurance that online poker will continue to be popular among our users. These factors may have an adverse effect on UIM’s business, operating results or financial performance, which could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial performance. In December 2006, we agreed to license certain of our gaming software for use on Web sites to be launched and operated by Laptop Finance Group Ltd. 10 Table of Contents Online gaming is a relatively new industry and therefore, we do not know if the market will continue to grow Both the Internet entertainment and online gaming industries are relatively new industries that continue to evolve and are characterized by an increasing number of market entrants. The demand and market acceptance for recently introduced products and services are typically subject to a high level of uncertainty. The success of our gaming software and service business will depend on the widespread adoption of the Internet for commercial transactions. There can be no assurance that entertainment on the Internet and online gaming will become widespread. All of the revenues from our gaming software and service business to date have been derived from the licensing of our online gaming software and support of our associated services. Our continued success will depend largely upon the success of our online gaming software. If the market fails to develop, develops more slowly than expected, or becomes saturated with competitors or if our services do not achieve market acceptance, our business, revenues, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We may be vulnerable to delays or interruptions due to our reliance on infrastructure and related services provided by third parties Our electronic commerce product for handling transactions over the Internet relies on ISPs to allow the customers of licensees and servers to communicate with each other. If all of the ISPs experienced lengthy service interruptions, it would prevent communication over the Internet and would greatly impair our ability to carry out our business. For example, in February 2007, an earthquake off the coast of Taiwan damaged several undersea optic-fiber cables linking countries such as Malaysia, Singapore, Australia, Japan, South Korea, China, the United States and Europe, causing disruptions in Internet traffic worldwide. Our ability to process e-commerce transactions depends on bank processing and credit card systems. In order to prepare for certain types of system problems, we are developing a formal disaster recovery plan. Nevertheless, any system failure, including network, software or hardware failure, which causes a delay or interruption in our e-commerce services could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. The licensees of our gaming software depend on credit card transactions for a substantial portion of the deposits or payments by their customers Our gaming software and service business has historically derived all of its revenues from its major licensee, UIM. A substantial portion of the deposits or payments to UIM are made through credit card transactions. If credit card companies were to stop processing online gaming transactions, either generally or in jurisdictions where our licensees operate, our gaming software and service business could be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, there is a higher incidence of fraud associated with online credit card payments than with other types of transactions, which could further discourage issuing banks from processing online gaming transactions. Undetected programming errors or defects in our software, services and games and the proliferation of cheating programs could materially and adversely affect our gaming software and services and online games businesses, financial condition and results of operations Our software, services and games may contain undetected programming errors or other defects. These errors or other defects could result in losses to our licensees (in the case of our gaming software and service business), end-users and to us, and claims resulting from losses to end users could damage our reputation and subject us to liability. In addition, parties unrelated to us may develop Internet cheating programs that enable our users to acquire superior features for their game characters that they would not have otherwise. Furthermore, certain cheating programs could cause the loss of a character’s superior features acquired by a user. The occurrence of undetected errors or defects in our games, and our failure to discover and disable cheating programs affecting the fairness of our game environment, could disrupt our operations, damage our reputation and detract from the game experience of our users. As a result, such errors, defects and cheating programs could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents We could be liable for breaches of security on our Web sites and fraudulent transactions by users of our Web sites A portion of our transactions are conducted through our Web sites and Web sites of our licensees. In such transactions, secured transmission of confidential information (such as customers’ credit card numbers and expiration dates, personal information and billing addresses) over public networks is essential to maintain consumer confidence. Our current security measures may not be adequate. In addition, we and our licensees may face internal fraud, including potential unauthorized usage of customer credit card information by our employees and those of our licensees. While we have taken steps to prevent this, including the implementation of payment card industry data security standards, these measures may not be adequate. Security breaches could expose us to litigation and possible liability for failing to secure confidential customer information and could harm our or our licensees’ reputation and ability to attract customers. We face the risks of changing consumer preferences and uncertainty of market acceptance of our new products in our online games business The level of demand and market acceptance of our online games is subject to a high degree of uncertainty. Our future operating results will depend on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include: • the popularity of existing and new online games operated by us; • the introduction of new online games, competing with or replacing our existing online games; • general economic conditions, particularly economic conditions adversely affecting discretionary consumer spending; • changes in customer tastes and preferences; • the availability of other forms of entertainment; and • critical reviews and public tastes and preferences, all of which change rapidly and cannot be predicted. Our ability to plan for product development and distribution and promotional activities will be significantly affected by how well we anticipate and adapt to relatively rapid changes in consumer tastes and preferences. Currently, a substantial portion of our online games revenue comprises revenues from our Freestyle and MahJong games offered by T2CN and FunTown, respectively. However, there is no assurance that these games will continue to be popular in Greater China. A decline in the popularity of online games in general or, in particular, the online MahJong and basketball games that we operate, is likely to adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are also generally required to continuously invest in the enhancement, improvement, expansion or upgrading of our games with new features. If we fail to do so, revenues generated from these games may decline. In addition, we expect that as we introduce new online games, a portion of our existing customers will switch to the new games. If this transfer of players from our existing games exceeds our expectations, we may have to adjust our marketing, pricing and other business plans and, as a result, our growth and profitability could be materially and adversely affected. In order for our business strategy to succeed over time, we will need to license, acquire or develop new online games that are attractive to our users to replace our existing online games as they reach the end of their commercial lifespan. To achieve this, we will need to identify games that will appeal to our users, compete effectively to attract the licensors of such games, and obtain government approvals required for the licensing and operation of such games. Also, in order to maintain the lifespan of our online games, we need to continue to develop and release upgrades to our online games. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify appropriate games or enter into arrangements with those game developers to offer these games. If we are not able to license, develop or acquire additional online games that appeals to our users, our future revenues and profitability will decline. Due to increased competition among online game operators in Taiwan and China, license fees for online games have increased and most licensors are demanding guaranteed minimum royalty payments. We may be unable to fully recover upfront and minimum royalty licensing costs if a licensed game is not popular among our users. We cannot be certain that the games we license from third parties or internally develop will be attractive to our users, will be considered by the regulatory authorities as complying with the relevant applicable restrictions, will be launched as scheduled or will be 12 Table of Contents able to compete with games operated by our competitors. If we are not able to consistently license or develop online games that appeal to our users, our future profitability and growth prospects will decline. Our future results of operations or the growth of our business may suffer if we are unable to maintain a satisfactory relationship with the licensors of our online games We need to maintain stable and satisfactory working relationships with our licensors in order to ensure the continued smooth operation of our licensed online games and our continued access to new online game licenses. We depend on our licensors to provide the necessary technical support for the operation of the licensed games as well as expansion packs and upgrades that sustain continuing interest in the games. Our ability to maintain satisfactory working relationships with our licensors may also influence our ability to license new online games developed by the same or other licensors. If we are unable to maintain satisfactory relationships with our licensors, our financial condition, results of operations, future profitability and growth prospects may be materially and adversely affected. PRC laws and regulations restrict foreign ownership of the Internet content provision, Internet culture operation and Internet publishing licenses, and substantial uncertainties exist with respect to the application and implementation of PRC laws and regulations We are classified as a foreign enterprise under PRC laws and various regulations in the PRC currently restrict foreign or foreign-owned enterprises from holding certain licenses required to provide online games over the Internet in the PRC, including Internet content provision, or ICP, Internet culture operation and Internet publishing licenses. In order to comply with foreign ownership restrictions, we operate our online games business in the PRC through contractual arrangements with Shanghai T2 Entertainment Co., Ltd. (“T2 Entertainment”) and Shanghai T2 Advertisement Co., Ltd. (“T2 Advertisement”). T2 Entertainment holds the Internet content provision and Internet cultural operation licenses that are required to operate our online games business in the PRC, and T2 Advertisement holds advertising license that is require to sell advertisements on our Web sites in the PRC. Beginning in June 2007, the results of T2 Entertainment and T2 Advertisement have been included in our consolidated financial statements. In July 2006, the Ministry of Information Industry, or MII, issued a notice (the “New MII Notice”), which prohibits ICP license holders from leasing, transferring or selling a telecommunications business operating license to any foreign investors in any form, or providing any resource, sites or facilities to any foreign investors for their illegal operation of telecommunications business in the PRC. The notice also requires that ICP license holders and their shareholders directly own the domain names and trademarks used by such ICP license holders in their daily operations. The notice further requires each ICP license holder to have the necessary facilities for its approved business operations and to maintain such facilities in the regions covered by its license. In addition, all value-added telecommunication service providers are required to maintain network and information security in accordance with the standards set forth under relevant PRC regulations. Local authorities in the various regions were required to ensure that existing ICP license holders conducted self-assessments of their compliance with the New MII Notice and submitted their status reports to the MII prior to November 1, 2006. T2 Entertainment has conducted its self-assessment and believes that it is in compliance with the requirements of the New MII Notice. We believe that the ownership structure and business operation models of our PRC subsidiaries comply with all existing PRC laws, rules and regulations, and no consent, approval or license is required under any of the existing laws and regulations of the PRC for their ownership structure, businesses and operations, except those which we have already obtained or which would not have a material adverse effect on our business or operations as a whole. There are, however, substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of current or future PRC laws and regulations. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that PRC government authorities will ultimately take a view that is consistent with our view. If we or any of our PRC operating companies are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, the relevant regulatory authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations and could impose significant penalties and sanctions or other regulatory or enforcement actions, including levying fines, that could be harmful to our business. Any of these actions could cause our business, financial condition and results of operations to suffer. We could also face material and adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that our contractual arrangements with T2 Entertainment and T2 Advertisement were not made on reasonable commercial terms. In such an event, they could adjust our income and expenses for PRC tax purposes in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment which could result in an increase in our PRC subsidiaries’ tax liability or limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to maintain preferential tax treatments and other financial incentives. We depend on certain operating licenses for the operation of our online games business in the PRC. Our business could be disrupted and our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected if either T2 Entertainment or T2 Advertisement violates their contractual arrangements with us 13 Table of Contents Due to restrictions in the PRC on foreign equity ownership of companies providing Internet content services and other licensing restrictions, our online games business in the PRC is operated in the PRC through T2 Entertainment and T2 Advertisement, which hold the licenses required for the operation of our online games business. We have entered into a series of contractual arrangements which are intended to give us effective control over these entities, but which are not as effective as compared to having direct ownership and control over these companies. For example, T2 Entertainment and T2 Advertisement could violate their contractual arrangements with us, go bankrupt, suffer from problems in their businesses or otherwise become unable to perform their contracts with us. As a result, we could lose the licenses required for our online game operations and our reputation and business could be harmed. In addition, the enforcement of these contractual arrangements in the PRC is subject to uncertainties. Uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements. While we believe that the ownership structure and the business and operation models of T2CN with respect to its contractual arrangements with the respective PRC entities mentioned above comply with all existing PRC laws, rules and regulations and no consent, approval or license is required under any of the existing laws and regulations of the PRC for the respective ownership structures, businesses and operations of T2CN, there are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of current or future PRC laws and regulations. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that the PRC regulatory authorities will not ultimately take a view contrary to the above. If we, T2CN, or any of our subsidiaries with operations in the PRC are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, the relevant regulatory authorities would have broad discretion to deal with such violations, including the revocation of the business and operating licenses of T2CN or those of the PRC entities which are licensed to operate online games in the PRC, discontinuing or restricting our, T2CN’s operations, requiring T2CN to restructure its respective ownership structures or operations or taking other regulatory or enforcement actions, including the levying of fines, that could be harmful to our business. The principal shareholders of T2 Entertainment and T2 Advertisement have potential conflicts of interest with us, which may adversely affect our business While pursuant to contractual arrangements we have the ability to effectively control our two principal T2CN VIEs, T2 Entertainment and T2 Advertisement, the principal shareholders of T2 Entertainment and T2 Advertisement are executive officers of T2CN and have no substantial shareholdings in our Company. Thus, conflicts of interest between their duties to our Company and T2 Entertainment and T2 Advertisement, respectively, may arise. We cannot assure you that when conflicts of interest arise, these persons will act completely in our interests or that conflicts of interests will be resolved in our favor. In any such event, we would have to rely on the PRC legal system to enforce the contractual arrangements. Any legal proceeding could result in the disruption of our business, diversion of our resources and the incurring of substantial costs. The laws and regulations governing the online games industry in the PRC are evolving and new regulations may adversely affect our business Our provision of online games and online game-related content on our Web sites in the PRC is subject to various Chinese laws and regulations relating to the telecommunications industry and Internet and online games, and is regulated by various government and regulatory authorities, including the MII, the Ministry of Culture, the General Administration of Press and Publication, the State Administration of Radio, Film and Television, the Ministry of Public Security and the State Administration for Industry and Commerce. The principal PRC regulations governing the provision of Internet content and online gaming services include (among others) the Telecommunications Regulations (2000), the Administrative Rules for Foreign Investments in Telecommunications Enterprises (2001), the Administrative Measures for Telecommunications Business Operating Licenses (2001), the Tentative Measures for Administration of Internet Culture (2003), the Tentative Measures for the Administration of Internet Publications (2002), the Opinions on the Development and Management of Online Games (2005) and the Anti-Internet Addiction Regulations (2007). We may be affected by these regulations, which (among other things) seek to regulate the content of online games and discourage online game players from spending excessive amounts of time playing online games. This may (among other things) reduce the number of our users, the growth rate of our user base, the general online games market in the PRC or the average number of hours played by online game players, or cause us to reduce usage fees or other charges in connection with our online games business. In addition, such regulations may require us to incur substantial costs of compliance in modifying or adapting our game software to comply with the regulatory requirements. This may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. There are no clear laws or regulations governing virtual asset property rights, in particular, in Greater China, and therefore, it is not clear what liabilities, if any, online game operators may have in respect of virtual assets In the course of playing online games, some virtual assets, such as special equipment, player experience grades and other features of our users’ game characters, are acquired and accumulated. Such virtual assets can be important to online game players. In practice, virtual assets can be lost for various reasons, often through unauthorized use of users’ IDs by other users and occasionally through data loss caused by delay of network service or by a network crash. Currently there are no clear laws or regulations governing virtual asset property rights, in particular, in Greater China, where we operate our online games business. In the case of a loss of virtual assets, we may be sued by online game players and could be held liable for damages, which may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Our business may be adversely affected by government policies and regulation of online games and Internet cafés in the PRC In April 2007, various relevant governmental authorities in the PRC jointly issued a circular that mandated the implementation of an “anti-addiction system” in online games to protect the physical and psychological well-being of minors. This circular requires that all online games incorporate an “anti-addiction system” and an identification verification system, both of which may limit the amount of time that a minor or other user may continuously spend playing an online game. The relevant authorities have also tightened its regulations of Internet cafés including through limiting the number of new operating licenses issued and reducing the operating hours of such cafés. The implementation of these systems, or enactment by the PRC government of any additional laws to further regulate Internet activities and online games or its supervision of Internet cafés, may result in fewer customers or less time spent by customers playing our online games, which may materially and adversely affect our business results and prospects for future growth. Failure to maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and the trading price of Shares Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to its financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. If our company cannot provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and effectively prevent fraud, our company’s operating results could be affected. We are subject to reporting requirements under the U.S. securities laws. The Commission, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, has adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on such company’s internal control over financial reporting in its annual report, which must contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of such company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm must express an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. Our management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2007. In addition, the report of our independent registered public accounting firm includes an opinion regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We have successfully completed our Section 404 assessment under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and received our auditors’ attestation as of December 31, 2007. However, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Our failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of Shares. Furthermore, we may incur additional costs and use significant management and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act going forward. We may need additional capital in the future, and it may not be available on acceptable terms The development of our business may require significant additional capital in the future to: • fund our operations; • enhance and expand the range of products and services we offer; and • respond to competitive pressures and perceived opportunities, such as investment, acquisition and international expansion activities. We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us, if at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be forced to curtail or cease our operations. Moreover, even if we are able to continue our operations, any failure to obtain additional financing could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and we may need to delay the deployment of our services. See Item 5, “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — B. Liquidity and Capital Resources.” 15 Table of Contents We depend on our key personnel, and our business and growth prospects may be severely disrupted if we lose their services Our future success is heavily dependent upon the continued service of our key executives and other key employees. In particular, we rely on the expertise, experience and leadership ability of our chief executive officer, Arthur Wang, and our president and chief operating officer, Thomas Hui, in our business operations, and rely on their personal relationships with our employees, the relevant regulatory authorities, and our game and service suppliers. We also rely on a number of key technology officers and staff for the development and operation of our online games. In addition, as we expect to focus increasingly on our online games business, we will need to continue attracting and retaining skilled and experienced professionals to maintain our competitiveness. If one or more of our key personnel are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to easily replace them and may incur additional expenses to recruit and train new personnel. As a result, our business could be severely disrupted, and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, since our industry is characterized by high demand and intense competition for talent, we may need to offer higher compensation and other benefits in order to attract and retain key personnel in the future. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract or retain the key personnel that we will need to achieve our business objectives. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a result, you may be subject to materially adverse tax consequences with respect to Shares Although we do not believe we should be classified as a passive foreign investment company for the 2008 taxable year, no assurances may be given that we will not be classified as a passive foreign investment company in the current or any future taxable year. For a discussion of the factors that will affect whether or not we are classified as a passive foreign investment company, see Item 10, “Additional Information — E. Taxation — U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations for U.S. Holders — Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules.” If you are a U.S. person holding Shares, (or have held Shares during a taxable year in respect of which we were classified as a passive foreign investment company and you continue to hold such Shares or portion thereof) and we are classified as a passive foreign investment company and you do not determine to make a mark-to-market election, you will be subject to special U.S. federal income tax rules that may have materially adverse tax consequences and will require annual reporting. See Item 10, “Additional Information — E. Taxation — U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations for U.S. Holders — Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules.” Fluctuations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies in which we conduct our business could adversely affect our profitability Since January 1, 2004, we have reported our financial results in U.S. currency, which is subject to fluctuations with respect to the currencies of the countries in which we operate. The operations of UIM, our major licensee, are conducted in U.S. dollars, Canadian Dollars and Euros. The operations of our online games business are conducted in NT dollars, Hong Kong dollars and Renminbi. Our Internet access and service business is conducted mainly in NT dollars. Accordingly, fluctuations in the exchange rates of world currencies could have a positive or negative effect on our reported results. Given the constantly changing currency exposures and the substantial volatility of currency exchange rates, we cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations upon future operating results. There can be no assurance that we will not experience currency losses in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. We are controlled by the Koo family, which has significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, and their interests may conflict with your interests As of June 16, 2008, members of the Koo family beneficially owned approximately 19.98 percent of our outstanding shares. Accordingly, the members of the Koo family have significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations, the sale of all or substantially all of our assets and the power to prevent or cause a change in control. The interests of such members of the Koo family may differ from or conflict with your interests. Our transactions with affiliates may not benefit us and may harm our Company We have entered into several transactions with our affiliates. Our policy is that transactions with affiliates are to be conducted on an arm’s-length basis and on terms as favorable to us as with non-affiliates. However, we cannot assure you that all our future transactions with affiliates will be beneficial to us. See Item 7, “Major Shareholders and Related-Party Transactions.” 16 Table of Contents Our operating results and financial condition are affected by general economic conditions, levels of consumer spending, political stability, as well as the occurrence of natural disasters and epidemics Our operating results and financial condition, particularly in relation to our gaming software and service business and our online games business, are directly dependent upon general economic conditions and levels of consumer spending. Political unrest, war, acts of terrorism and other instability, as well as natural disasters such as earthquakes and typhoons which are common in Taiwan and the PRC, can result in disruption to our business or the businesses of our customers. Similar occurrences in the future could result in increased volatility in or damage to the global financial markets, which in turn may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Past economic downturns have resulted in lower levels of consumer spending and have negatively impacted our sales and profit. There can be no assurance that rising interest rates, an economic recession, other adverse economic developments, or natural disasters or epidemics will not have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, profitability or financial condition. There are economic risks associated with doing business in Taiwan, particularly due to the tense relationship between Taiwan and the PRC Our principal executive offices, a major portion of our online games business and our Internet access service business are located in Taiwan and substantially all of our net revenues with respect to these businesses are derived from customers in Taiwan. Taiwan, as part of the Republic of China, has a unique international political status. The PRC asserts sovereignty over mainland China and Taiwan and does not recognize the legitimacy of the Taiwan government. Relations between Taiwan and the PRC and other factors affecting the political or economic conditions of Taiwan could also affect our online games and Internet access service businesses. The ability of our subsidiaries to distribute dividends to us may be subject to restrictions under the laws of Taiwan and the PRC We are a holding company, and some of our assets constitute our ownership interests in our subsidiaries in Taiwan, including Hoshin GigaMedia, which owns the Taiwan-based operations of our online games business and our Internet access service business. Accordingly, part of our primary internal source of funds to meet our cash needs is our share of the dividends, if any, paid by our subsidiaries, including those in Taiwan. The distribution of dividends to us from these subsidiaries in Taiwan is subject to restrictions imposed by the applicable corporate and tax regulations in these countries, which are more fully described in Item 5, “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — B. Liquidity and Capital Resources — Dividends from Our Subsidiaries.” In addition, although there are currently no foreign exchange control regulations which restrict the ability of our subsidiaries in Taiwan to distribute dividends to us, the relevant regulations may be changed and the ability of these subsidiaries to distribute dividends to us may be restricted in the future. In June 2007, we acquired control over a majority of the voting rights over the shares of T2CN, an online games operator and distributor which operates its business primarily in the PRC. Accordingly, we are subject to further restrictions imposed by PRC corporate, tax and exchange control regulations which are applicable to T2CN and its business. Current PRC regulations only permit our subsidiaries in the PRC to pay dividends out of their respective accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations and these entities are required to allocate at least 10 percent of their respective accumulated profits each year, if any, to fund certain capital reserves until the cumulative total of the allocated reserves reaches 50 percent of registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. In addition, failure to comply with relevant State Administration of Foreign Exchange (“SAFE”), regulations may also restrict the ability of our subsidiaries to make dividend payments to us. These restrictions on dividends or other payments from PRC subsidiaries may adversely affect our ability to make cash or other distributions to the holders of our Shares. Moreover, recent PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident shareholders or us to penalties and limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our subsidiaries’ ability to increase their registered capital, distribute profits to us, or otherwise adversely affect us. We are a Singapore company, and because the rights of shareholders under Singapore law differ from those under U.S. law, you may have difficulty protecting your shareholder rights Our corporate affairs are governed by our Memorandum and Articles of Association and by the laws governing corporations incorporated in Singapore. The rights of our shareholders and the responsibilities of members of our board of directors under Singapore law are different from those applicable to a corporation incorporated in the United States and, therefore, our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests in connection with actions by the management, members of our board of directors or our controlling shareholders than they would as shareholders of a corporation incorporated in the United States. 17 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions under the Singapore Securities and Futures Act (Chapter 289) and the Singapore Code on Take-overs and Mergers may delay, deter or prevent a future takeover or change of control of our Company, which could adversely affect the price of Shares There are provisions under the Singapore Securities and Futures Act (Chapter 289) and the Singapore Code on Take-overs and Mergers (the “Code”) that may delay, deter or prevent a future takeover or change of control of our Company. Anyone acquiring an interest, either on his own or together with parties acting in concert with him, in 30 percent or more of our voting shares must extend a takeover offer for the remaining voting shares in accordance with the provisions of the Code. A person holding between 30 percent and 50 percent of our voting shares, either on his own or together with parties acting in concert with him, must also make a takeover offer in accordance with the provisions of the Code if that person together with parties acting in concert with him acquires additional voting shares in excess of one percent of the total number of voting shares in any six-month period. These provisions may discourage or prevent transactions that involve an actual or threatened change of control of our Company. This may harm you because an acquisition bid may allow you to sell your Shares at a price above the prevailing market price. Our shareholders may be subject to Singapore taxes You should consult your tax advisors concerning the overall tax consequences of acquiring, owning or selling the Shares. Singapore tax law may differ from the tax laws of other jurisdictions, including the United States. We may be subject to claims of intellectual property right infringement, and our limited intellectual property protection causes us to be vulnerable to competitors infringing upon or misappropriating our proprietary rights As a distributor of Internet content, we face the same types of risks that apply to all businesses that publish or distribute information, such as potential liability for copyright, patent or trademark infringement, defamation, indecency and other similar claims. Any imposition of liability that is not covered by insurance, is in excess of insurance coverage or for which we are not indemnified by a content provider, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We rely on a combination of copyright and trademark laws, trade secret protection, confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements, and other contractual provisions to protect our proprietary software, trade secrets and similar intellectual property. These are especially critical to our gaming software and service and online games businesses. We can offer no assurance that our efforts will prove to be sufficient or that third parties will not infringe upon or misappropriate our proprietary rights. We may have to engage in litigation to enforce and protect our trade secrets and other intellectual property rights. We may also be sued for allegedly infringing the rights of others or to determine the scope and validity of their intellectual property rights. Any litigation involving proprietary rights could be costly, require us to seek licenses from third parties and prevent us from selling our products and services, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Risks Related to Shares The price of Shares has been volatile historically and may continue to be volatile, which may make it difficult for holders to resell the Shares when desired or at attractive prices The trading price of Shares has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. In 2007, the closing prices of Shares on the NASDAQ Global Market have ranged from US$9.28 to US$24.61 per share, and the last reported sale price on June 16, 2008 was US$15.56. Our Share price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors. In addition, the financial markets in general, and the market prices for Internet-related companies in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of Shares, regardless of our operating performance. 