Item 1A. Risk Factors. RISKS RELATING TO TIME WARNER GENERALLY The Company must respond to recent and future changes in technology, services and standards and changes in consumer behavior to remain competitive and continue to increase its revenues. Technology, particularly digital technology used in the entertainment industry, continues to evolve rapidly, and advances in that technology have led to alternative methods for the delivery and storage of digital content. These technological changes have driven and reinforced changes in consumer behavior, as consumers increasingly seek control over when, where and how they consume digital content. For example, content owners are increasingly delivering their content directly to consumers over the Internet, often without charge, and consumer electronics innovations have enabled consumers to view such Internet-delivered content on televisions and portable devices. Further, the current economic conditions could have the effect of accelerating the migration to digital technologies among both providers and consumers of content, with companies seeking greater efficiencies and consumers seeking more value and lower cost alternatives. Technological developments also pose other challenges for the Company that could adversely affect its revenues and competitive position. For example, the Company may not have the right, and may not be able to secure the right, to distribute its licensed content across new delivery platforms that are developed. In addition, technological developments that enable third-party owners of programming to bypass traditional cable networks, such as the Turner Networks and the Home Box Office Services, and deal directly with cable system and other content distributors could place limitations on the ability of the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments to distribute such third-party programming that could have an adverse impact on their revenues. Cable system and direct broadcast satellite operators are increasingly able to transmit more channels on their existing equipment, reducing the cost of creating channels and potentially furthering the development of more specialized niche audiences, which could increase the competition for viewers. Furthermore, advances in technology or changes in competitors’ product and service offerings may require the Company in the future to make additional research and development expenditures or to offer at no additional charge or at a lower price certain products and services that are currently offered to customers separately or at a premium. There is also the risk that the Company could develop or support a new technology or business initiative that is not adopted by consumers. In addition, traditional audience measures have evolved with emerging technologies that can measure audiences with improved sensitivity, and there may be future technical and marketplace developments that will result in new audience measurements that may be used as the basis for the pricing and guaranteeing of the advertising contracts of the Publishing segment or the advertising-supported networks in the Networks segment, which could have an adverse effect on these segments’ advertising revenues and an indirect adverse impact on the Filmed Entertainment segment’s licensing revenues. There is also the risk for the Publishing segment that new delivery platforms could lead to pricing restrictions, the loss of distribution control and the loss of a direct relationship with consumers. The Company’s failure to protect and maximize the value of its content, while adapting to, supporting and developing new technology and business models to take advantage of new and emerging technologies and changes to consumer behavior could have a significant adverse effect on the Company’s businesses and results of operations. The introduction and increased popularity of alternative technologies for the distribution of entertainment, news and other information and the resulting shift in consumer habits and advertising expenditures from traditional media to digital media could adversely affect the Company’s revenues. The Company’s Publishing and Networks segments derive a substantial portion of their revenues from advertising in magazines and on television, respectively. Distribution of entertainment, news and other information via the Internet has become increasingly popular over the past several years, and viewing entertainment, news and other content on a personal computer, mobile phone or other electronic or portable electronic device has become increasingly popular as well. Accordingly, advertising dollars have started to shift from traditional media to digital media. The Company believes that the shift in major advertisers’ expenditures from traditional media to digital media has adversely affected the revenue growth of the Publishing and Networks segments, which may continue in the future. This shift could further intensify competition for advertising in traditional media, which could exert greater pressure on these segments to 16 Table of Contents increase revenues from digital advertising. In addition, if consumers increasingly elect to obtain news and entertainment online instead of by purchasing the Publishing segment’s magazines, this trend could negatively affect the segment’s circulation revenues and also adversely affect its advertising revenues. Further, the Publishing and Networks segments have taken various steps to diversify the means by which they distribute content and generate advertising revenues, including increasing investments in Internet properties, which may not be sufficient to offset revenue losses resulting from a continued shift in advertising dollars over the long term from traditional media to digital media. In addition, this trend also could have an indirect negative impact on the licensing revenues generated by the Filmed Entertainment segment and the revenues generated by Home Box Office from the licensing of its original programming in syndication and to basic cable networks. The Company has been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by weak economic and market conditions. The Company’s businesses have been, and in the future will continue to be affected by economic and market conditions, including factors such as interest rates, the rate of unemployment, the level of consumer confidence and changes in consumer spending habits. Because many of the Company’s products and services are largely discretionary items, the deterioration of these conditions could diminish demand for the Company’s products and services. Such a decline could also increase the Company’s cost to provide such products and services. In addition, expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting general economic conditions, and therefore, the deterioration of these conditions could adversely affect the Company’s revenues since the Company’s Networks and Publishing segments derive a substantial portion of their revenues from the sale of advertising. Declines in consumer spending due to weak economic conditions could also indirectly impact the Company’s advertising revenues by causing downward pricing pressure on advertising because advertisers may not perceive as much value from advertising if consumers are purchasing fewer of their products or services. Advertising expenditures also could be negatively affected by other factors, such as shifting societal norms, pressure from public interest groups, changes in laws and regulations and other social, political and technological developments. Disasters, acts of terrorism, hostilities, global health concerns or pandemics also could lead to a reduction in advertising expenditures as a result of uninterrupted news coverage and economic uncertainty. Advertising expenditures by companies in certain sectors of the economy, including food and beverage, apparel, fashion and retail, pharmaceuticals and medical, motion picture, automotive, financial/business services and insurance, toiletries and cosmetics, and telecommunications, represent a significant portion of the Company’s advertising revenues, and any economic, political, social or technological change resulting in a significant reduction in the advertising spending of these sectors could further adversely affect the Company’s advertising revenues or its ability to maintain or increase such revenues. Declines in the global economy contributed to reduced advertising expenditures in 2008 and 2009, and, if economic conditions do not improve, advertising expenditures could decline or remain at reduced levels. There is also a risk that print advertising may not rebound when economic conditions improve, or it may take several years for such a rebound to occur. The Company also faces risks associated with the impact of economic and market conditions on third parties, such as suppliers, retailers, film co-financing partners, insurers, lenders and other sources of financing and other parties with which it does business. If these parties file for protection under bankruptcy laws or otherwise experience negative effects on their businesses due to the market and economic conditions, it could negatively affect the Company’s business or operating results. Time Warner is exposed to risks associated with disruption in the financial markets. U.S. and global credit and equity markets experienced significant disruption beginning in late 2008, making it difficult for many businesses to obtain financing on acceptable terms. In addition, equity markets experienced wide fluctuations in value. The Company is exposed to risks associated with disruptions in the financial markets, which can make it more difficult and more expensive to obtain financing. In addition, disruptions in the financial markets can adversely affect the Company’s lenders, insurers, customers and counterparties, including vendors, retailers and film co-financing partners. For instance, the inability of the Company’s counterparties to obtain financing on acceptable terms could impair their ability to perform under their agreements with the Company and lead to various negative effects on the Company, including fewer outlets for retail sales, business disruption, decreased revenues, increases in bad debt write-offs and, in the case of film co-financing partners, greater risk with respect to the performance of the Company’s films. 17 Table of Contents Time Warner faces risks relating to doing business internationally that could adversely affect its business and operating results. Time Warner’s businesses operate and serve customers worldwide. There are risks inherent in doing business internationally, including: • economic volatility and the global economic slowdown; • currency exchange rate fluctuations and inflationary pressures; • the requirements of local laws and customs relating to the publication and distribution of content and the display and sale of advertising; • import or export restrictions and changes in trade regulations; • difficulties in developing, staffing and managing a large number of foreign operations as a result of distance and language and cultural differences; • issues related to occupational safety and adherence to diverse local labor laws and regulations; • potentially adverse tax developments; • longer payment cycles; • political or social unrest; • risks related to government regulation; • the existence in some countries of statutory shareholder minority rights and restrictions on foreign direct ownership; • the presence of corruption in certain countries; and • higher than anticipated costs of entry. One or more of these factors could harm the Company’s international operations and its business and operating results. In addition, the Company could be at a competitive disadvantage in the long term if its businesses are not able to strengthen their positions and capitalize on international opportunities in growth economies and media sectors. International expansion involves significant investments as well as risks associated with doing business abroad, and investments in some regions can take a long period to generate an adequate return and in some cases there may not be a developed or efficient legal system to protect foreign investment or intellectual property rights. In addition, if the Company expands into new international regions, some of its businesses will have only limited experience in operating and marketing their products and services in such regions and could be at a disadvantage compared to competitors with more experience, particularly diversified media companies that are well established in some developing nations, and the Company’s strategies for growth may not be successful. The Company’s businesses operate in highly competitive industries. Competition faced by the businesses in the Company’s Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments is intense and comes from many different sources, and the ability of these businesses to compete successfully depends on many factors, including their ability to provide high-quality, popular entertainment product, adapt to new technologies and distribution platforms and achieve widespread distribution. There has been consolidation in the media industry, and the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments’ competitors include industry participants with interests in other multiple media businesses that are often vertically integrated. Such vertical integration could have various negative effects on the competitive position of the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments. For example, vertical integration of television networks and television and film production or distribution companies could adversely affect the Networks segment if it hinders the ability of the Networks segment to obtain programming for its networks. In addition, if purchasers of programming increasingly purchase their programming from production companies with which they are affiliated, such vertical integration could have a negative effect on the Filmed Entertainment segment’s licensing revenues and the revenues generated by Home Box Office from the licensing of its original programming in syndication and to basic cable networks. There can be no assurance that the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or potential competitors or that competition will not have an adverse effect on their businesses or results of operations. The Company’s Publishing segment faces significant competition from several direct competitors and other media, including the Internet. Moreover, additional competitors may enter the website publishing business and further intensify competition, which could have an adverse impact on the segment’s revenues. Competition for print advertising expenditures has intensified in recent years as advertising spending has increasingly shifted from traditional to digital media, and this competition has intensified even further due to difficult economic conditions. There can be no assurance that the Publishing segment will be able to compete successfully in the future against 18 Table of Contents existing or potential competitors or that competition will not have an adverse effect on its business or results of operations. The Company faces risks relating to competition for the leisure and entertainment time of consumers, which has intensified in part due to advances in technology and changes in consumer behavior. The Company’s businesses are subject to risks relating to increasing competition for the leisure and entertainment time of consumers and this competition may intensify further during economic downturns. The Company’s businesses compete with each other and all other sources of entertainment, news and other information, including broadcast television, films, the Internet, home video products, interactive videogames, sports, print media, live events and radio broadcasts. Technological advancements, such as video-on-demand, new video formats and Internet streaming and downloading, have increased the number of media and entertainment choices available to consumers and intensified the challenges posed by audience fragmentation. The increasing number of choices available to consumers could negatively affect not only consumer demand for the Company’s products and services, but also advertisers’ willingness to purchase advertising from the Company’s businesses. If the Company does not respond appropriately to further increases in the leisure and entertainment choices available to consumers, the Company’s competitive position could deteriorate, and its financial results could suffer. The popularity of the Company’s content and other factors are difficult to predict and could lead to fluctuations in the Company’s revenues, and low public acceptance of the Company’s content may adversely affect its results of operations. The production and distribution of television programming, films, interactive videogames, magazines and other content are inherently risky businesses largely because the revenues derived from the production and distribution of such content, as well as the licensing of rights to the intellectual property associated with such content, depend primarily on its acceptance by the public, which is difficult to predict. Public acceptance of new, original television programming and new theatrical films and interactive videogames that are not part of a franchise is particularly difficult to predict, which heightens the risks associated with such content. In addition, due to the decline in the sales of DVDs, the success of a theatrical film is much more dependent on public acceptance at the box office. The commercial success of a television program, film, interactive videogame, magazine or other content also depends on the quality and acceptance of other competing content available or released at or near the same time, the adequacy of efforts to limit piracy, particularly of films still in theatrical distribution, the availability of alternate forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, the ability to develop strong brand awareness and target key audience demographics and anticipate and adapt to changes in consumer tastes and behavior on a timely basis, general economic conditions and other tangible and intangible factors, many of which are difficult to predict. In addition, in the case of the Turner Networks, the popularity of their syndicated and original programming is a factor that is weighed when determining their advertising rates, and, as a result, poor ratings in targeted demographics can lead to a reduction in pricing and advertiser demand. Historically, there has been a correlation between a theatrical film’s domestic box office success and international box office success, as well as a correlation between box office success and success in subsequent distribution channels. Consequently, the underperformance of a film, particularly an “event” film (which typically has high production and marketing costs) or a film that is part of a franchise, can have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations in both the year of release and in the future, and may adversely affect revenues from other distribution channels, such as home entertainment and pay television programming services, and sales of interactive videogames and licensed consumer products based on such film. Sales of DVDs have been declining, which may adversely affect the Company’s growth prospects and results of operations. Several factors, including weak economic conditions, the maturation of the standard definition DVD format, piracy and intense competition for consumer discretionary spending and leisure time, are contributing to an industry-wide decline in DVD sales both domestically and internationally, which has had an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. DVD sales have also been adversely affected as subscription rental and discount rental kiosks, which generate significantly less revenue per transaction than DVD sales, have captured an increasing share of consumer transactions and consumer spending. DVD and Blu-ray Disc sales also may be negatively affected as consumers increasingly shift from consuming physical entertainment products to digital forms of entertainment. The media and entertainment industries face a challenge in managing the transition from physical to electronic formats in a manner that continues to support the current DVD and Blu-ray Disc business and their relationships with large retail customers and yet meets the growing consumer demand for delivery of entertainment 19 Table of Contents content in a variety of electronic formats. There can be no assurance that DVD and Blu-ray Disc wholesale prices can be maintained at current levels, due to aggressive retail pricing and the consumer transition to digital and lower priced rental services. Piracy of the Company’s content may decrease the revenues received from the exploitation of its content and adversely affect its business and profitability. The piracy of Time Warner’s brands, motion pictures, television programming, DVDs, Blu-ray Discs, video content, interactive videogames and other intellectual property in the U.S. and internationally poses significant challenges to the Company’s businesses, particularly the Company’s Filmed Entertainment and Networks segments. Technological advances allowing the unauthorized dissemination of motion pictures, television programming and other content in unprotected digital formats, including via the Internet, increase the threat of piracy because they make it easier to create, transmit and distribute high quality unauthorized copies of content. The proliferation of unauthorized copies and piracy of the Company’s products or the products it licenses from third parties can have an adverse effect on its businesses and profitability because these products reduce the revenues that Time Warner potentially could receive from the legitimate sale and distribution of its content. Policing the unauthorized use of the Company’s contents and products is difficult and costly, and there can be no assurance that the Company’s efforts to enforce its rights and combat piracy will be successful in reducing piracy of the Company’s content and products. Time Warner’s businesses may suffer if it cannot continue to license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which its businesses depend. The Company relies on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the United States and similar laws in other countries, and licenses and other agreements with its employees, customers, suppliers and other parties, to establish and maintain its intellectual property rights in content, technology and products and services used in its various operations and to conduct its businesses. However, the Company’s intellectual property rights could be challenged or invalidated, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit it to take advantage of current industry trends or otherwise to provide competitive advantages, which could result in costly redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product and service offerings or other competitive harm. Further, the laws of certain countries do not protect Time Warner’s proprietary rights, or such laws may not be strictly enforced. Therefore, in certain jurisdictions the Company may be unable to protect its intellectual property adequately against unauthorized copying or use, which could adversely affect its competitive position. Also, because of the migration to digital technology and other technological changes in the industries in which the Company operates, the Company may need to use technologies developed or licensed by third parties in order to conduct its businesses, and if Time Warner is not able to obtain or to continue to obtain licenses from these third parties on reasonable terms, its businesses could be adversely affected. It is also possible that, in connection with a merger, sale or acquisition transaction, the Company may license its trademarks or service marks and associated goodwill to third parties, or the business of various segments could be subject to certain restrictions in connection with such trademarks or service marks and associated goodwill that were not in place prior to such a transaction. The Company has been, and may be in the future, subject to claims of intellectual property infringement, which could have an adverse impact on the Company’s businesses or operating results due to a disruption in its business operations, the incurrence of significant costs and other factors. From time to time, the Company receives notices from others claiming that it infringes their intellectual property rights, and the number of intellectual property infringement claims could increase in the future. Increased infringement claims and lawsuits could require Time Warner to enter into royalty or licensing agreements on unfavorable terms, incur substantial monetary liability or be enjoined preliminarily or permanently from further use of the intellectual property in question. This could require Time Warner to change its business practices and limit its ability to compete effectively. Even if Time Warner believes that the claims are without merit, the claims can be time-consuming and costly to defend and divert management’s attention and resources away from its businesses. In addition, agreements entered into by the Company may require it to indemnify the other party for certain third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which could require the Company to expend sums to defend against or settle such claims or, potentially, to pay damages. If Time Warner is required to take any of these actions, it could have an adverse impact on the Company’s businesses or operating results. The use of new technologies to distribute content on the Internet, including through Internet sites providing social networking and user-generated content, could put some of the Company’s businesses at an increased risk of allegations of copyright or trademark infringement or legal liability, as 20 Table of Contents well as cause them to incur significant technical, legal or other costs and limit their ability to provide competitive content, features or tools. The Company’s businesses are subject to labor interruption. The Company and certain of its suppliers retain the services of writers, directors, actors, athletes, technicians, trade employees and others involved in the development and production of motion pictures, television programs and magazines who are covered by collective bargaining agreements. If the Company and its suppliers are unable to renew expiring collective bargaining agreements, it is possible that the affected unions could take actions in the form of strikes, work slowdowns or work stoppages. Such actions or the possibility of such actions could cause delays in the production or the release dates of the Company’s feature films, television programs and magazines, as well as result in higher costs either from such actions or less favorable terms of the applicable agreements on renewal. The Company’s businesses rely heavily on network and information systems or other technology, and a disruption or failure of such networks, systems or technology as a result of computer viruses, misappropriation of data or other malfeasance, as well as outages, natural disasters, accidental releases of information or similar events, may disrupt the Company’s businesses and damage its reputation. Because network and information systems and other technologies are critical to many of Time Warner’s operating activities, network or information system shutdowns or service disruptions caused by events such as computer hacking, dissemination of computer viruses, worms and other destructive or disruptive software, denial of service attacks and other malicious activity, as well as power outages, natural disasters, impairments to satellite systems used to transmit programming, terrorist attacks and similar events, pose increasing risks. Such an event could have an adverse impact on the Company and its customers, including degradation of service, service disruption and damage to equipment and data. Significant incidents could result in a disruption of the Company’s operations, customer dissatisfaction, or a loss of customers or revenues. Furthermore, the operating activities of Time Warner’s various businesses could be subject to risks caused by misappropriation, misuse, leakage, falsification and accidental release or loss of information maintained in the information technology systems and networks of the Company and third party vendors, including personnel, customer and vendor data. The Company could be exposed to significant costs if such risks were to materialize, and such events could damage the reputation and credibility of Time Warner and its businesses and have a negative impact on its revenues. The Company also could be required to expend significant capital and other resources to remedy any such security breach or to repair or replace networks or information systems. If the AOL Separation or the TWC Separation is determined to be taxable for income tax purposes, Time Warner and/or Time Warner’s stockholders who received shares of AOL or TWC in connection with the spin-offs could incur significant income tax liabilities. In connection with the AOL Separation, Time Warner received an opinion of counsel confirming that the AOL Separation will not result in the recognition, for U.S. Federal income tax purposes, of gain or loss to Time Warner or its stockholders, except to the extent of cash received in lieu of fractional shares. In connection with the TWC Separation, Time Warner received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and opinions of counsel confirming that the TWC Separation should not result in the recognition, for U.S. Federal income tax purposes, of gain or loss to Time Warner or its stockholders, except to the extent of cash received in lieu of fractional shares. The IRS ruling and the opinions received in connection with these transactions were based on, among other things, certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings made by Time Warner and by AOL or TWC, as applicable. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is incorrect or not otherwise satisfied, Time Warner and its stockholders may not be able to rely on the relevant IRS ruling or opinion and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. Furthermore, opinions of counsel are not binding on the IRS or state or local tax authorities or the courts, and a tax authority or court could determine that the AOL Separation or the TWC Separation should be treated as a taxable transaction. Under the tax matters agreement that Time Warner entered into with AOL, Time Warner is entitled to indemnification from AOL for taxes resulting from the failure of the AOL Separation to qualify as tax-free (“AOL Transaction Taxes”) as a result of (i) certain actions or failures to act by AOL or (ii) the failure of certain representations made by AOL to be true. Similarly, under the tax matters agreement that Time Warner entered into with TWC, Time Warner is entitled to indemnification from TWC for taxes resulting from the failure of the TWC Separation to qualify as tax-free (“TWC Transaction Taxes” and, together with the AOL Transaction Taxes, the “Transaction Taxes”) as a result of (i) certain actions or failures to act by TWC or (ii) the failure of certain representations made by TWC to be true. However, 21 Table of Contents under these tax matters agreements, if Transaction Taxes are incurred for any other reason, Time Warner would not be entitled to indemnification. The Company’s businesses are subject to regulation in the U.S. and internationally, which could cause the Company to incur additional costs or liabilities or disrupt its business practices. The Company’s businesses are subject to a variety of U.S. and international laws and regulations. Cable networks in the United States are regulated by U.S. federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the FCC. Time Inc.’s magazine subscription and direct marketing activities are subject to regulation by the FTC and the states under general consumer protection statutes prohibiting unfair or deceptive acts or practices, and certain areas of marketing activity are also subject to specific federal statutes and rules. In addition, the rules of the Audit Bureau of Circulations govern Time Inc.’s magazine subscription activities. The Company’s digital properties and activities are subject to a variety of laws and regulations, including those relating to privacy, consumer protection, data retention and data protection, content regulation and the use of software that allows for audience targeting and tracking of performance metrics, among others. The U.S. Congress, state legislatures and various regulatory bodies currently are considering, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations and policies regarding various matters that could, directly or indirectly, adversely affect the Company’s businesses. For example, in October 2009, the FCC initiated a rulemaking to adopt so-called “net neutrality” rules which would, in part, require Internet service providers to adhere to new nondiscrimination and transparency principles in managing their networks, but would allow reasonable measures to address, among other things, network congestion and unlawful transfers of content, such as copyrighted material subject to piracy. From time to time, there has been consideration of the extension of indecency rules applicable to over-the-air broadcasters to cable and satellite programming and stricter enforcement of existing laws and rules. Also, the FCC initiated a proceeding in 2008 to examine the use of product placement and integration in television programming and sought comment on whether to enhance its existing sponsorship identification disclosure rules, extend such rules to cable networks and expressly prohibit the use of paid product placement or integration in children’s media. Policymakers have also raised concerns about violence in various forms of content, including television programming, motion pictures and interactive videogames, and a renewed interest in children’s media issues, which are currently the subject of an FCC inquiry. The Obama administration is also expected to focus on combating childhood obesity through advocacy and other efforts in 2010, including an interagency task force developing a voluntary nutrition standard for food and beverage marketing aimed at children 2-17 years old. Policymakers have also expressed interest in exploring whether cable operators should offer “à la carte” programming to subscribers on a network-by-network basis or provide “family-friendly” tiers, and a number of cable operators have voluntarily agreed to offer family tiers. The FCC also is examining the manner in which some programming distributors package or bundle services sold to distributors, and the same conduct is at issue in industry-wide antitrust litigation pending in Federal court in Los Angeles, in which the plaintiffs seek to prohibit wholesale bundling practices prospectively. The unbundling or tiering of program services may reduce the distribution of certain cable networks, thereby creating the risk of reduced viewership and increased marketing expenses, and may affect the ability of Turner’s advertising-supported networks to compete for or attract the same level of advertising dollars. A number of states have proposed “Do Not Mail” legislation, similar to Federal “Do Not Call” legislation, which would allow consumers to register their names on a list and not receive direct mail. The Senate Commerce Committee is currently investigating offers of free trial memberships in discount buying clubs made to customers following a customer’s credit card purchase from a merchant. While the investigation does not involve magazines, potential outcomes, such as certain restrictions on the transfer of credit card information, could adversely affect the Publishing segment’s business. The Company could incur substantial costs necessary to comply with new laws, regulations or policies or substantial penalties or other liabilities if it fails to comply with them. Compliance with new laws, regulations or policies also could cause the Company to change or limit its business practices in a manner that is adverse to its businesses. In addition, if there are changes in laws that provide protections that the Company relies on in conducting its business, it would subject the Company to greater risk of liability and could increase its costs of compliance or limit its ability to operate certain lines of business. 22 Table of Contents RISKS RELATING TO TIME WARNER’S NETWORKS BUSINESS The loss of affiliation agreements, or renewal on less favorable terms, could cause the revenues of the Networks segment to decline in any given period, and further consolidation of multichannel video programming distributors could adversely affect the segment. The Networks segment depends on affiliation agreements with cable system operators, satellite distribution services, telephone companies and other customers (known as affiliates) for the distribution of its networks and services, and there can be no assurance that these affiliation agreements will be renewed in the future on terms that are acceptable to the Networks segment. The renewal of such agreements on less favorable terms may adversely affect the segment’s results of operations. In addition, the loss of any one of these arrangements representing a significant number of subscribers or the loss of carriage on the most widely penetrated programming tiers could reduce the distribution of the segment’s programming, which may adversely affect its advertising and subscription revenues. The loss of favorable packaging, positioning, pricing or other marketing opportunities with any affiliate of the segment’s networks also could reduce subscription revenues. In addition, further consolidation among affiliates has provided them greater negotiating power, and increased vertical integration of such affiliates could adversely affect the segment’s ability to maintain or obtain distribution and/or marketing for its networks and services on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The inability of the Networks segment to license rights to popular programming could adversely affect the segment’s revenues. The Networks segment obtains a significant portion of its popular programming from third parties. For example, some of Turner’s most widely viewed programming, including sports programming, is made available based on programming rights of varying durations that it has negotiated with third parties, as well as other subsidiaries of the Company. Competition for popular programming is intense, and the businesses in the segment may be outbid by their competitors for the rights to new popular programming or in connection with the renewal of popular programming they currently license. In addition, renewal costs could substantially exceed the existing contract costs. Alternatively, third parties from which the segment obtains programming, such as professional sports teams or leagues, may create their own networks, which could reduce the amount of available content and further intensify competition for licensed programming. Increases in the costs of programming licenses and other significant costs may adversely affect the gross margins of the Networks segment. The Networks segment licenses a significant amount of its programming, such as motion pictures, television series, and sports events, from movie studios, television production companies and sports organizations. For example, the Turner Networks have obtained the rights to produce and telecast significant sports events, such as NBA play-off games, Major League Baseball play-off games and a series of NASCAR races. If the level of demand for quality content exceeds the amount of quality content available, the networks may have to pay significantly higher licensing costs, which in turn will exert greater pressure on the segment to offset such increased costs with higher advertising and/or subscription revenues. There can be no assurance that the Networks segment will be able to renew existing or enter into additional license agreements for its programming and, if so, if it will be able to do so on terms that are similar to existing terms. There also can be no assurance that it will be able to obtain the rights to distribute the content it licenses over new distribution platforms on acceptable terms. If it is unable to obtain such extensions, renewals or agreements on acceptable terms, the gross margins of the Networks segment may be adversely affected. The Networks segment produces programming, and it incurs costs for creative talent, including actors, writers and producers, as well as costs relating to development and marketing. The segment also incurs additional significant costs, such as production and newsgathering costs. The Networks segment’s failure to generate sufficient revenues to offset increases in the costs of creative talent or in development, marketing, production or newsgathering costs may lead to decreased profits at the Networks segment. The maturity of the U.S. video services business, together with rising retail rates, distributors’ focus on selling alternative products and other factors, could adversely affect the future revenue growth of the Networks segment. The U.S. video services business generally is a mature business, which may have a negative impact on the ability of the Networks segment to achieve incremental growth in its advertising and subscription revenues. In addition, programming distributors may increase their resistance to wholesale programming price increases, and programming distributors are increasingly focused on selling services other than video, such as high-speed data and voice services. Also, consumers’ basic video service rates have continued to increase, which could cause consumers 23 Table of Contents to cancel their video service subscriptions or reduce the number of services they subscribe to, and the risk of this occurring may be greater during economic slowdowns. RISKS RELATING TO TIME WARNER’S FILMED ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS A decrease in demand for television product could adversely affect Warner Bros.’ revenues. Warner Bros. is a leading supplier of television programming. If there is a decrease in the demand for Warner Bros.’ television product, it could lead to the launch of fewer new television series and a reduction in the number of original programs ordered by the networks, the per-episode license fees generated by Warner Bros. in the near term and the syndication revenues generated by Warner Bros. in the future. Various factors may increase the risk of such a decrease in demand, including station group consolidation and vertical integration between station groups and broadcast networks, as well as the vertical integration of television production studios and broadcast networks, which can increase the networks’ reliance on their in-house or affiliated studios. In addition, the failure of ratings for the programming to meet expectations and the shift of viewers and advertisers away from network television to other entertainment and information outlets could adversely affect the amount and type (e.g., scripted drama) of original programming ordered by networks and the amount they are willing to pay for such programming. Local television stations may face loss of viewership and an accompanying loss of advertising revenues as viewers move to other entertainment outlets, which may negatively affect the segment’s ability to obtain the per-episode license fees in syndication that it has received in the past. Finally, the increasing popularity of local television content in international markets also could result in decreased demand, fewer available broadcast slots, and lower licensing and syndication revenues for U.S. television content. If the costs of producing and marketing feature films increase in the future, it may be more difficult for a film to generate a profit. The production and marketing of feature films require substantial capital. In recent years, the costs of producing feature films have generally increased. If production and marketing costs increase in the future, it may make it more difficult for the segment’s films to generate a profit. Such increases also create a greater need for the Filmed Entertainment segment to generate revenues internationally or from other media, such as home entertainment, television and new media. Changes in estimates of future revenues from feature films could result in the write-off or the acceleration of the amortization of film production costs. The Filmed Entertainment segment is required to amortize capitalized film production costs over the expected revenue streams as it recognizes revenues from the associated films. The amount of film production costs that will be amortized each quarter depends on how much future revenue the segment expects to receive from each film. Unamortized film production costs are evaluated for impairment each reporting period on a film-by-film basis. If estimated remaining revenue is not sufficient to recover the unamortized film production costs plus expected but unincurred marketing costs, the unamortized film production costs will be written down to fair value. In any given quarter, if the segment lowers its forecast with respect to total anticipated revenue from any individual feature film, it would be required to accelerate amortization of related film costs. Such a write-down or accelerated amortization could adversely affect the operating results of the Filmed Entertainment segment. RISKS RELATING TO TIME WARNER’S PUBLISHING BUSINESS The Publishing segment could face increased costs and business disruption resulting from instability in the wholesaler distribution channel. The Publishing segment operates a national distribution business that relies on wholesalers to distribute its magazines to newsstands and other retail outlets. A small number of wholesalers are responsible for a substantial percentage of the wholesale magazine distribution business in the U.S. In 2008 and 2009, there was significantly increased instability in the wholesaler channel that led to one major wholesaler leaving the business and to certain disruptions to magazine distribution. There is the possibility of further consolidation among these major wholesalers and insolvency of or non-payment by one or more of these wholesalers, especially in light of the economic climate and its impact on retailers. Distribution channel disruptions can temporarily impede the Publishing segment’s ability to distribute magazines to the retail marketplace, which could, among other things, negatively affect the ability of certain magazines to meet the rate base established with advertisers. Continued 24 Table of Contents disruption in the wholesaler channel, an increase in wholesaler costs or the failure of wholesalers to pay amounts due could adversely affect the Publishing segment’s operating income or cash flow. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 