D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and Industries The limited operating history of our gaming software and services business and our online games business may not provide you with an adequate basis upon which to evaluate our business and prospects We commenced our gaming software and service business operations in April 2004 and our online games business in January 2006. Our operating history as an gaming software and services provider and an online games operator may be too short to give you a sufficient basis for evaluating our business and financial performance. It is also difficult to evaluate our prospective business, because we may not have sufficient experience to address the risks frequently encountered by companies entering new and rapidly evolving markets such as the gaming software market and online games market. These risks include our potential failure to: • respond to technological changes or resolve unexpected service interruptions in a timely manner; • adapt to regulatory changes; • retain existing customers or attract new customers; • license, develop, or acquire additional online games that are appealing to consumers; • anticipate and adapt to changing consumer preferences; • adapt to competitive market conditions; • adequately and efficiently operate, upgrade and develop our transaction and service platforms; and • maintain adequate control of our expenses. If we are unsuccessful in addressing any of these risks, our business and financial condition will be adversely affected. In addition, certain management members have worked at our Company for a relatively short period. We may not be able to achieve similar results or growth in future periods. Accordingly, you should not rely on our results of operations for any prior periods as an indication of our future performance. The uncertain global legal and regulatory environment could have a negative impact on our gaming software and services business and prospects We currently rely on our gaming software and services business for a substantial majority of our revenues. Our gaming software and services business includes software development and the provision of application services for Internet gaming, including online poker rooms, casinos and the related marketing affiliate programs. We license our gaming software to UIM, which operates various online poker rooms and casinos and also sub-licenses our software products to third parties. Fees earned by us are based on UIM’s gross receipt from the operation utilizing the licensed software. UIM currently holds a gaming license issued by the Kahnawake Gaming Commission in Canada and a provisional gaming license issued by issued by Lotteries and Gaming Authority in Malta. Issues such as determining the physical location of a gaming event and significant differences among the gaming laws and “Cyberlaws” of various countries make traditional concepts of jurisdiction and conflicts of laws difficult to apply. In addition, the substantial uncertainties in the global regulatory environment relating to online gaming expose us to the risk that regulatory authorities in various jurisdictions may determine that our Company provides online gaming services (rather than only licensing software and providing application services) and thus subject our Company to gaming laws and regulations in such jurisdictions. 5 Table of Contents UIM primarily targets non-U.S. markets, predominantly in Continental European markets. Several European countries have adopted a regulated online gaming approach. For example, Italy has recently introduced a new set of regulations on online gaming. In Italy, there is a general prohibition on casino-type games. Online poker tournaments, pari-mutuel betting on horseraces and sports events are legal, provided that the game operators are licensed by the relevant authorities. The French government has also recently published a draft gaming bill. The bill would establish a regulatory regime of online gaming in France from January 1, 2010. The proposed new regime would allow private operators of sports betting, pari-mutual horserace betting and poker to offer their services online, provided they obtain a license from a new regulatory authority. Other jurisdictions in which UIM operates may require local licensing in the future. There can be no assurance that UIM will be successful in its efforts to obtain a gaming license from these jurisdictions, and that UIM would not face the potential loss of users in these jurisdictions. In addition, some European countries, including Sweden, The Netherlands and Germany, have taken actions or introduced legislation aimed at banning foreign online gaming operators, which could have a material adverse effect on UIM and consequently on our Company. The Internet gaming industry is still in an early stage of development and the global legal and regulatory environment in which the Internet gaming businesses operate remains highly uncertain and is subject to change. While many jurisdictions have some form of legal framework applicable to games of chance and land-based casinos, few provide clear guidance on how this framework applies to Internet gaming. In addition, the very nature of Internet gaming creates new and unique forms of entertainment that were neither contemplated nor feasible in the past. There can be no assurance that legislation prohibiting Internet gaming or regulating various aspects of Internet gaming industry will not be proposed and passed in potentially relevant jurisdictions. We cannot assure you that we as an application service provider to the gaming industry, or UIM as an online gaming operator, are in compliance with all laws and regulations of the jurisdictions where our gaming software products are used, or that changes in such laws and regulations, or in their interpretation, will not adversely affect our business and results of operations. For additional information on the regulatory environment relating to online gaming, see Item 4, “Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Regulation” in this annual report. In operating our online games business, we may fail to launch new games according to our timetable, and our new games may not be commercially successful In order for our online games business strategy to succeed over time, we will need to license, acquire or develop new online games that can generate additional revenue and further diversify our revenue sources. A number of factors, including technical difficulties, government approvals and game licenses required for launching new games, lack of sufficient game development personnel and other resources, and adverse developments in our relationship with the licensors of our new licensed games could result in delay in launching our new games. Therefore, we cannot assure you that we will be able to meet our timetable for new game launches. In January 2009, we introduced Holic Online, an adventure-themed massively multi-player online role playing game (“MMORPG”), in Taiwan. On June 25, 2009, we launched Warhammer Online: Age of Reckoning, a war-themed MMORPG, in Taiwan, Hong Kong and Macau, which we expect will become an additional revenue stream for our online games segment in the second half of 2009. In addition, we have four MMORPGs and one advanced casual games in the pipeline, that we expect to launch in various target markets in Greater China, including the PRC, Taiwan, Hong Kong and Macau. There are many factors that may adversely affect the popularity of our new games. For example, we may fail to anticipate and adapt to future technical trends and new business models, fail to satisfy game player preferences and requirements, fail to effectively plan and organize marketing and promotion activities, fail to effectively detect and prevent programming errors or defects in the games, and fail to operate our new games at acceptable costs. We cannot assure you that our new games will gain the market acceptance and become commercially successful. If we are not able to license, develop or acquire additional online games that are commercially successful, our future revenues and profitability may decline. Due to increased competition among online games operators in the PRC and Taiwan, license fees for online games have increased and most licensors are demanding upfront license fees and guaranteed minimum royalty payments. If any of the new games we license from third parties fails to appeal to players, we may not be able to fully recover upfront and/or minimum royalty licensing costs, which can be significant. As a result, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. We may not be successful in operating and improving our existing online games to satisfy the changing demands and preferences of players The level of demand and market acceptance of our existing online games is subject to a high degree of uncertainty. Our future operating results will depend on numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • the popularity of existing and new online games operated by us; • the introduction of new online games by us or third parties, competing with or replacing our existing online games; 6 Table of Contents • general economic conditions, particularly economic conditions adversely affecting discretionary consumer spending; • changes in our customer demands and preferences; • the availability of other forms of entertainment; and • critical reviews and public tastes and preferences, all of which change rapidly and cannot be predicted. Our ability to plan for product development and distribution and promotional activities will be significantly affected by how well we anticipate and adapt to relatively rapid changes in consumer tastes and preferences. Currently, a substantial portion of our online games revenue is derived from revenues from Freestyle, an online sports game offered in the PRC, and the online MahJong games offered in Taiwan and Hong Kong. However, there is no assurance that these games will continue to be popular. A decline in the popularity of online games in general or, in particular, Freestyle and online MahJong, is likely to adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. To maintain competitiveness of our games, we are generally required to continuously invest in enhancing, improving, expanding or upgrading our games. If we fail to do so, revenues generated from our existing games may decline. In addition, we expect that as we introduce new online games, a portion of our existing customers will switch to the new games. If this transfer of players from our existing games exceeds our expectations, we may have to adjust our marketing, pricing and other business plans and, as a result, our growth and profitability could be materially and adversely affected. Our results of operations are subject to significant fluctuations Our revenues, expenses and results of operations have varied in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. The key factors affecting our businesses include: • Gaming software and service business: the regulatory restrictions applicable to the Internet gaming industry; the revenues, expenses and results of operations of UIM, our largest licensee; global economic conditions and general economic conditions of the markets where our products target; availability of the Internet infrastructure; and the technological and other competition from existing and new competitors. • Online games business: our ability to retain existing users; attract new users and maintain user satisfaction; the pace of rollout of new games or update to existing games by us or our competitors; the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to our business operations and expansion; seasonal trends in Internet use; price competition in the industry; regulatory and other risks associated from our operations in China and Taiwan. In addition, our operating expenses are based on our expectations of the future demand for our services and are relatively fixed in the short term. We may be unable to adjust spending quickly enough to offset any unexpected demand shortfall. A decrease in revenues in relation to our expenses could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. You should not place undue reliance on our financial guidance, nor should you rely on year-to-year or quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as indicators of our future performance. The gaming software markets and the online games markets are characterized by rapid technological change, and failure to respond quickly and effectively to new Internet technologies or standards may have a material adverse effect on our business The markets for our gaming software and service business and online games business are characterized by rapid technological advances, evolving industry standards, changes in user requirements and frequent new service introductions and enhancements. To maintain the competitiveness of our gaming software products, we need to continue to anticipate the emergence of new technologies and games, assess their acceptance and make appropriate adjustments accordingly. If we are unable to do so, new technologies in online gaming programming or operations could render our gaming software products and online games obsolete or unattractive. 7 Table of Contents The online games industry is evolving rapidly. Any new technologies and new standards may require increases in expenditures for online game development and operations. In addition, we use internally developed software systems that support nearly all aspects of our billing and payment transactions in our online games business. All of our businesses may be adversely affected if we are unable to upgrade our systems effectively to accommodate future traffic levels, to avoid obsolescence or to successfully integrate any newly developed or acquired technology with our existing systems. Capacity constraints could cause unanticipated system disruptions and slower responses, which could adversely affect data transmission and game play. These factors could, among other things, cause us to lose existing or potential users and existing or potential game development partners. The current global economic slowdown and other adverse economic conditions may negatively impact our business The current global economic slowdown has resulted in an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence and increased market volatility. These unfavorable changes in economic conditions have resulted in decreased spending of our customers. The impact of economic conditions on our licensees and business partners could adversely affect our business and revenues. In addition, the current global financial turmoil and the tightening of credit have resulted in a general credit crunch and have negatively impacted our ability to obtain additional financings. If the current global economic slowdown and global financial turmoil continue on a sustained basis, they will further negatively impact the demand for our gaming software products and services and our online games and adversely affect our business, revenues, cash flows, profitability and financial condition. Our business could suffer if we do not successfully manage current growth and potential future growth We are pursuing a number of growth strategies. Some of these strategies relate to services, products or markets in which we lack experience and expertise. In connection with our expansion plan for the gaming software and services business, we entered into a strategic partnership with Victor Chandler International Group (“Victor Chandler”) in December 2008, with a view to adding sports betting into our online gaming software platform and driving cross-selling across the platform. We cannot assure you that we will be able to deliver new products or services on a commercially viable basis or in a timely manner, or at all. We have developed Polish and Hungarian language versions of our gaming software products and seek to enter the online games markets in Poland and Hungary. We also intend to expand our gaming software and services business into other Eastern European and Central European countries and Russia. As part of our growth strategy for the online games operation, in December 2006, we entered into a strategic alliance with Infocomm Asia Holdings Pte Ltd (“Infocomm Asia”), an online gaming operator and distributor operating primarily in the Southeast Asia region, in which we currently have no business operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to leverage our past experience as we expand into these new markets. Our growth to date has placed, and our anticipated further expansion of our operations, including a significant expansion of our headcount, will continue to place, a significant strain on our management, operation systems and resources. In addition to training and managing our workforce, we will need to continue to develop and improve our financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures, including those of acquired businesses. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively manage the growth of our operations, and any failure to do so may limit our future growth and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business strategy, which contemplates growth through acquisitions and strategic investments, exposes us to significant risks We have pursued and may continue to pursue growth through acquisitions and strategic investments. Any acquisition or investment is subject to a number of risks. Such risks include the diversion of management time and resources, disruption of our ongoing business, lack of familiarity with new markets, difficulties in supporting the acquired business, and dilution to existing stockholders if our common stock is issued in consideration for an acquisition or investment, incurring or assuming indebtedness or other liabilities in connection with an acquisition. The total costs incurred in connection with our acquisitions and investments in various businesses in 2008 were approximately US$8.6 million. For additional information with respect to our acquisitions and investments, see Item 4, “Information on The Company — A. History and Development of Our Company” in this annual report. Our financial results may be affected by such acquisitions or investments. We may incur debts upon an acquisition or suffer losses related to the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets following the acquisition. These debts or losses could negatively impact our results of operations. As of December 31, 2008, we carried US$87.1 million of goodwill, including the goodwill recorded in connection with our acquisition of T2CN. Any write-off of goodwill in the future may have a negative impact on our financial results. 8 Table of Contents We will continue to examine the merits, risks and feasibility of potential transactions, and expect to explore additional acquisition opportunities in the future. Such examination and exploration efforts, and any related discussions with third parties, may or may not lead to future acquisitions and investments. We may not be able to complete acquiring or investing transactions that we initiate. Our ability to grow through such acquisitions and investments will depend on many factors, including the availability of suitable acquisition candidates at an acceptable cost, our ability to reach agreement with acquisition candidates or investee companies on commercially reasonable terms, the availability of financing to complete the transactions and our ability to obtain any required governmental approvals. We also face challenges in integrating any acquired business. These challenges include eliminating redundant operations, facilities and systems, coordinating management and personnel, retaining key employees, managing different corporate cultures, maintaining the relationship with the suppliers, vendors and/or distributors of acquired businesses, and achieving cost reductions and cross-selling opportunities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate all aspects of acquired businesses. The process of integrating the acquired business may disrupt our business and divert our resources. In addition, the benefits of an acquisition or investment transaction may take considerable time to be fully realized and we cannot assure you that any particular acquisition or investment and the subsequent integration will produce the intended benefits. Our businesses face intense competition, which may adversely affect our revenues, profitability and planned business expansion Competition in the gaming software and service business The Internet gaming software industry is characterized by rapid technological changes, and we face significant and intense competition from gaming software design houses and application service providers. Our primary competitors include online gaming software design houses and application service providers, which provide gaming software, marketing tools and solutions, customer support tools and solutions, and e-commerce tools and solutions to online poker and casino sectors. Given the relatively low barriers to entry into the software industry and the increasing popularity of Internet-based businesses, we face a large number of potential competitors from many different segments of the software and Internet industries. We potentially compete with a number of public and private companies, which provide Internet architecture design/development, web design/development and online gaming software design/development. In addition, traditional Internet service providers (“ISPs”) and other entities may provide online gaming services in the future and engage in direct competition with us by developing and offering online gaming software solutions and tools. Some of them may have greater technical, marketing, financial and other resources, broader name recognition and more established relationships in certain geographic markets than we do. We are also exposed to competition among UIM and other game operators in the online gaming industry, as our proceeds of the license fees are based on the gross receipt earned by UIM from its operations utilizing our software. UIM faces intense competition in the online gaming industry, which is characterized by low barriers to entry, rapid technological change and ever-changing consumer preferences. New entrants to the online gaming industry, increasingly competitive market consolidations and aggressive marketing and pricing by competitors may lead to a significant decline in the customer base, revenues and margins of UIM. In addition, the online gaming industry is influenced by various other factors, including changes in policies and regulations and economic conditions in different jurisdictions. For example, as a result of the Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act of 2006 (“UIGEA”) and the subsequent closing of the online gaming market in the United States, UIM faces increased competition from entertainment service providers in markets in Continental Europe, which are also increasingly subject to regulation from governmental authorities. Furthermore, some of UIM’s competitors have greater experiences, resources and distribution capabilities. For additional information, see Item 4, “Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Gaming Software and Service Business — Competition” in this annual report. Competition in the online games business The online games market is highly competitive. Our main competitors in the online games business are online game operators in Taiwan and China. Our major competitors in Taiwan include Gamania Digital Entertainment Co., Ltd. (“Gamania”), Soft-World International Corporation (“Soft-World”) and International Games System, Co., Ltd. (“IGS”). Our major competitors in the PRC include NetEase.com, Inc. (“NetEase”), Shanda Interactive Entertainment Ltd. (“Shanda”), Giant Interactive Group, Inc. (“Giant”), Changyou.com Limited (“Changyou”), The9 Limited, Shanghai Everstar Online Entertainment Co., Ltd. (“Nineyou”), Tencent Holdings Limited (“Tencent”), Beijing Globalink Computer Technology Co., Ltd.(“Ourgames.com”) and Chinagames.net. In addition, we compete for users against various offline games, such as console games, arcade games and handheld games, as well as various other forms of traditional or other online entertainment. 9 Table of Contents We expect more online games operating companies to enter in the markets where we operate, including Taiwan, the PRC and Hong Kong, and a wider range of online games to be introduced to these markets given the relatively low entry barriers to the online games industry. Our competitors vary in size and include private and public companies, many of which have greater financial, marketing and technical resources as well as name recognition. We intend to continue to enhance our market position through providing competitive products and quality services that meet market trends and users’ preferences, as well as strengthening sales effectiveness. As a result of the above, the significant competition may reduce the number of our users or the growth rate of our user base, reduce the average number of hours played by our users, or cause us to reduce usage fees. All of these competitive factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We expect the marketing costs for our gaming software and services business to continue to be significant, which could have an adverse effect on our business Our selling and marketing costs have been increasing rapidly, primarily due to increasing competition in our core markets, the lack of available new markets and the high level of advertising by our competitors in Europe. These costs increased by 126.2 percent, from US$22.1 million in 2006 to US$50.0 million in 2007, and by 28.0 percent from US$50.0 million in 2007 to US$64.1 million in 2008. We expect that we will need to continue to incur significant marketing expenses for our gaming software and services business, which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. Our gaming software and services business is dependent on UIM, our largest licensee, and any adverse effect on UIM’s business could have an adverse effect on our revenues, results of operations and financial condition Historically, substantially all of our revenues from our gaming software and service business have been derived from UIM, our largest licensee. UIM operates various online gaming sites and sub-licenses our software products to third parties. On April 1, 2004, we entered into an end user license agreement with UIM, pursuant to which we granted a nonexclusive, non-transferable, worldwide license to UIM to use our software and certain operational and support services. The term of the agreement is 10 years. The license fees and service fees were determined based on a revenue sharing mechanism. UIM’s revenues are derived principally from its operations of online poker rooms and casinos. Although we do not have any equity ownership interest in UIM, we consolidate its assets, liabilities and results of operations in our financial statements in accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 46R (“FIN 46(R)”). See Item 4, “The Information on The Company — B. Business Overview — Relationship with UIM” in this annual report. We do not control its management and hence have no control over its business decisions. In addition, there is significant competition in the online poker and casino industry. There can be no assurance that online poker or casinos operated by UIM or its sub-licensees will continue to appeal to their existing users. Any significant difficulties encountered by UIM in its operations or significant deviation from the agreement terms on UIM’s part, may have a material and adverse effect on our revenue, business and financial results. Our gaming software and services business will be materially and adversely affected if credit card companies and other financial institutions cease to accept online gaming transactions A substantial portion of UIM’s proceeds from its online gaming operations is from the deposits or payments made by its customers through credit card transactions. Financial institutions in the United States have ceased to accept online gaming transactions after the enactment of the UIGEA, which prohibits the use of communication facilities and financial transactions in connection with Internet gambling. For additional information, see Item 4, “The Information on The Company — B. Business Overview — Regulation” in this annual report. Although UIM primarily targets non-U.S. markets, predominantly in Continental European markets, there can be no assurance that credit card companies or other financial institutions in the jurisdictions where UIM operates will continue to accept and process online gaming transactions. Furthermore, there is a higher incidence of fraud associated with online credit card payments than with other types of payments, which could further discourage issuing banks from processing online gaming transactions. If credit card companies or other financial institutions cease to accept online gaming transactions, either generally or in the jurisdictions where UIM operates, UIM’s revenues and, in turn, our gaming software and service business could be materially and adversely affected. Our gaming software and services business and online games business depend on the reliability of our network infrastructure, which is subject to physical, technological, security and other risks The development and operation of our online networks are subject to physical, technological, security and other risks which may result in interruption in service or reduced capacity. These risks include physical damage, power loss, telecommunications failure, capacity limitation, hardware or software failures or defects and breaches of security by computer viruses, system break-ins or otherwise. An increase in the volume of usage of online services could strain the capacity of our software and hardware employed, which could result in slower response time or system failures. We have a variety of backup servers at our primary site to deal with possible system failures. However, we do not have redundant facilities in the event of an emergency. The occurrence of any of these events could result in interruptions, delays or cessation in service to users of our online services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents While we have implemented industry-standard security measures, our network may still be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, denial of service and other disruptive problems. Our Internet-based services may be interrupted as a result of the accidental or intentional actions of Internet users, our current and former employees or others. A party that is able to circumvent security measures could misappropriate proprietary information, attack our security and network system, and, perhaps, most importantly, cause interruptions in our operations. We have experienced, in the past, and may experience, in the future, security breaches and attacks. We may be required to expend significant capital or other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches and attacks or to alleviate problems caused by such actions. There can be no assurance that any measures implemented will not be circumvented in the future. Our business is also vulnerable to delays or interruptions due to our reliance on infrastructure and related services provided by third parties. End-users of our gaming software depend on ISPs and our system infrastructure for access to the Internet gaming sites operated by UIM and its sub-licensees. Many of these services have experienced service outages in the past and could experience service outages, delays and other difficulties due to system failures, stability or interruption. For example, in February 2007, an earthquake off the coast of Taiwan damaged several undersea optic-fiber cables linking countries such as Malaysia, Singapore, Australia, Japan, South Korea, China, the United States and Europe, causing disruptions in Internet traffic worldwide. Our licensees may lose customers as a result of delays or interruption in service, including delays or interruptions relating to high volumes of traffic or technological problems, which may prevent communication over the Internet and could materially adversely affect our business, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Any failure to maintain a stable and efficient distribution and payment network could have a material and adverse impact on our online games business, financial condition and results of operations Our online games business operation relies heavily on a multi-layer distribution and payment network composed of third party distributors for our sales to, and collection of payment from, our users. As we do not enter into long-term agreements with any of our distributors, we cannot assure you that we will continue to maintain favorable relationships with them. If we fail to maintain a stable and efficient distribution and payment network, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, our ability to process electronic commerce transactions depends on bank processing and credit card systems. In order to prepare for certain types of system problems, we have a formal disaster recovery plan. Nevertheless, any system failure, including network, software or hardware failure, which causes a delay or interruption in our e-commerce services could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. We could be liable for breaches of security on our websites and fraudulent transactions by users of our websites A portion of our transactions are conducted through our websites and websites of our licensees. In such transactions, secured transmission of confidential information (such as customers’ credit card numbers and expiration dates, personal information and billing addresses) over public networks is essential to maintain consumer confidence. In addition, we and our licensees may face internal fraud, including potential unauthorized usage of customer credit card information by our employees and those of our licensees. While we have taken steps to prevent this, including the implementation of payment card industry data security standards, our current security measures may not be adequate. Security breaches could expose us to litigation and possible liability for failing to secure confidential customer information and could harm our or our licensees’ reputation and ability to attract and retain customers. Undetected programming errors or defects in our software, services and games and the proliferation of cheating programs could materially and adversely affect our gaming software and services and online games businesses, financial condition and results of operations Our software, services and games may contain undetected programming errors or other defects. These errors or other defects could result in losses to the licensees of our gaming software, end-users and us. Claims resulting from losses to end users could damage our reputation and subject us to liability. As to online games, parties unrelated to us may develop Internet cheating programs that enable users to acquire superior features for their game characters that they would not have otherwise. Furthermore, certain cheating programs could cause the loss of a character’s superior features acquired by a user. The occurrence of undetected errors or defects in our games, and our failure to discover and disable cheating programs affecting the fairness of our game environment, could disrupt our operations, damage our reputation and detract from the game experience of our users. As a result, such errors, defects and cheating programs could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents Our gaming software and services business is international and therefore faces associated risks There are certain difficulties and inherent risks faced by our Company and UIM, our largest licensee, in doing business internationally, including the burden of complying with multiple and conflicting regulatory requirements, foreign exchange controls, potential restrictions or tariffs on gaming activities that may be imposed, potentially adverse tax consequences and tax risks. Changes in the political and economic stability, regulatory and taxation structures, and the interpretation thereof, in jurisdictions in which we or UIM operate, and in which our, UIM’s or its sub-licensees’ customers are located could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, while the functional currency of our gaming software and services business is U.S. dollar, the principal geographic markets of our gaming software products and services are Continental European markets. The fluctuation of exchange rate between Euro and U.S. dollar may adversely affect spending of players from Continental Europe and the demand for our gaming software products and services, and in turn, adversely affect our business and revenues. Online gaming is a relatively new industry and therefore, we do not know if the market will continue to grow The online gaming industry is at an early stage of development, and the extent of acceptance of online gaming products and services is uncertain. Market data for the online gaming industry is not as readily available as that on other more established industries where trends can be assessed more reliably from data gathered over a longer period of time. In addition, the success of our gaming software and service business will largely depend on the widespread adoption of the Internet for commercial transactions. If the market fails to develop, develops more slowly than expected, or becomes saturated with our competitors, or if our products and services do not achieve market acceptance, or if the availability of the Internet commercial transactions fails to develop sufficiently to support the online gaming industry, our business, revenues, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Operation of pirate game servers and the expenses incurred in protecting our online games operation against unlawful operations through pirate servers may adversely affect our business We continue to face challenges from pirate game servers, which are game servers that operate unauthorized copies of our online games and permit users to play those games without purchasing pre-paid game cards from us. The existence of unauthorized servers may attract game players away from our games and may result in decreases in our revenues. We have detected the operation by pirate servers of unauthorized copies of several of our games. In January 2009, for example, we discovered that certain unauthorized third parties have misappropriated the source codes of Luna Online and have set up unauthorized servers to unlawfully operate the game in the PRC. Although we have made efforts to detect and shutdown pirate servers in China, Taiwan and Hong Kong, we cannot assure you that such efforts will be successful in eliminating these unauthorized servers. In addition, detailed comparisons of software codes and litigation proceedings are often necessary to enforce the intellectual property rights, whether owned by or licensed by us, which sometimes result in substantial costs. The continued illegal operation of any of our existing games by pirate game servers, or the illegal operation of any of our new games by pirate servers, may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to claims of intellectual property right infringement by third parties, which could subject us to significant liabilities and other costs Our success depends largely on our ability to use and develop our technology and know-how without infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties. We cannot assure you that third parties will not assert intellectual property claims against us. The validity and scope of claims relating to the intellectual property of online gaming software development and technology may involve complex scientific, legal and factual questions and analysis, and tend to be uncertain. If third parties assert copyright or patent infringement or violation of other intellectual property rights against us, we have to defend ourselves in legal or administrative proceedings, which can be costly and time consuming and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our technical and management personnel. An adverse determination in any such proceedings to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liability to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties, and prevent us from selling our products and services. The imposition of liabilities that is not covered by insurance, in excess of insurance coverage or for which we are not indemnified by a content provider, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may need to incur significant expenses to protect our intellectual property rights, and if we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be harmed We regard our copyrights, service marks, trademarks, trade secrets, patents and other intellectual property as critical to our success. We rely on a combination of copyright and trademark laws, trade secret protection, confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements, and other contractual provisions to protect our proprietary software, trade secrets and similar intellectual property. We have patents, copyrights and trademarks in certain jurisdictions and may apply for further trademark and copyright registrations and additional patents, which may provide such protection in relevant jurisdictions. However, we cannot assure you that our efforts will prove to be sufficient or that third parties will not infringe upon or misappropriate our proprietary rights. Unauthorized use of the intellectual property, whether owned by or licensed to us, could adversely affect our business and reputation. 12 Table of Contents The validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property in Internet-related industries are evolving, and therefore, uncertain. In particular, the laws and enforcement procedures of the PRC, Taiwan and Hong Kong are uncertain or do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws and enforcement procedures of the United States do. We may have to engage in litigation or other legal proceedings to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future results of operations or the growth of our business may suffer if we are unable to maintain a satisfactory relationship with the licensors of our online games We primarily source MMORPGs and advanced casual games through licensing from developers in various regions where online game development is relatively established. As of the date of this annual report, we have four licensed MMORPGs and five licensed advance casual games in our online game portfolio, including the games we currently offer and the games in the pipeline. We need to maintain stable and satisfactory working relationships with our licensors in order to ensure the continued operation of our licensed online games and our continued access to new online game licenses. We depend on our licensors to provide the necessary technical support for the operation of the licensed games as well as expansion packs and upgrades that sustain continuing interest in the games. Our ability to maintain satisfactory working relationships with our licensors may also influence our ability to license new online games developed by the same or other licensors. If we are unable to maintain satisfactory relationships with our licensors, our financial condition, results of operations, future profitability and growth prospects may be materially and adversely affected. Failure to maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and the trading price of our Shares Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to its financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and effectively prevent fraud, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to reporting requirements under the U.S. securities laws. The SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, has adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on such company’s internal control over financial reporting in its annual report, which must contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of such company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm must express an opinion on the effectiveness of our Company’s internal control over financial reporting. Our management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2008. In addition, the report of our independent registered public accounting firm includes an opinion regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We have successfully completed our Section 404 assessment under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and received our auditors’ attestation as of December 31, 2008. However, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Our failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our Shares. Furthermore, we may incur additional costs and use significant management and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act going forward. We may need additional capital in the future, and it may not be available on acceptable terms The development of our business may require significant additional capital in the future to: • fund our operations; • enhance and expand the range of products and services we offer; and • respond to competitive pressures and perceived opportunities, such as investment, acquisition and international expansion activities. 13 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us, if at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be forced to curtail or cease our operations. Moreover, even if we are able to continue our operations, any failure to obtain additional financing could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and we may need to delay the deployment of our services. See Item 5, “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — B. Liquidity and Capital Resources.” We depend on our key personnel, and our business and growth prospects may be severely disrupted if we lose their services Our future success is heavily dependent upon the continued service of our key executives and other key employees. In particular, we rely on the expertise, experience and leadership ability of our chief executive officer, Arthur M. Wang, and our president and chief operating officer, Thomas Hui, in our business operations, and rely on their personal relationships with our employees, the relevant regulatory authorities, and our game and service suppliers. We also rely on a number of key technology officers and staff for the development and operation of our online gaming software and online games. In addition, as we expect to focus increasingly on our online games business, we will need to continue attracting and retaining skilled and experienced professionals to maintain our competitiveness. If one or more of our key personnel are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to easily replace them and may incur additional expenses to recruit and train new personnel. As a result, our business could be severely disrupted, and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, since our industry is characterized by high demand and intense competition for talent, we may need to offer higher compensation and other benefits in order to attract and retain key personnel in the future. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract or retain the key personnel that we will need to achieve our business objectives. Our results of operations and financial condition are affected by political stability, as well as the occurrence of natural disasters and epidemics We operate our online games business both in Taiwan and the PRC. Political unrest, war, acts of terrorism and other instability, as well as natural disasters such as earthquakes and typhoons which are common in Taiwan and the PRC, can result in disruption to our business or the businesses of our customers. Our business could be adversely affected by natural disasters and the effects of influenza A (H1N1), avian flu, SARS or other epidemics. Any prolonged recurrence of such adverse public health developments in the regions where we operate may have material adverse effect on our business operations. These could include illness and loss of our management and key employees. Natural disasters or outbreak of epidemics may result in decrease in economic activities or temporary closure of many businesses and disruption in our operations. In addition, other major natural disasters may also adversely affect our business by, for example, causing disruptions of the Internet network or otherwise affecting access to our games. Risks Related to Doing Business in Greater China PRC laws and regulations restrict foreign ownership and investment in the online game industry, and substantial uncertainties exist with respect to the application and implementation of PRC laws and regulations We are classified as a foreign enterprise under PRC laws and various regulations in the PRC currently restrict foreign or foreign-owned enterprises from holding certain licenses required to provide online games over the Internet in the PRC, including Internet content provision, Internet culture operation and Internet publishing licenses. In order to comply with foreign ownership restrictions, we operate our online games business in the PRC through our three variable interest entities (“VIEs”), including Shanghai T2 Entertainment Co., Ltd. (“T2 Entertainment”), Shanghai T2 Advertisement Co., Ltd. (“T2 Advertisement”) and Shanghai Jinyou Network & Technology Co., Ltd. (“Jinyou”). All the VIEs are effectively controlled by T2CN though contractual arrangements. T2 Entertainment and Jinyou hold the Internet content provision and Internet cultural operation licenses that are required to operate our online games business in the PRC, and T2 Advertisement holds advertising license that is require to sell advertisements on our websites in the PRC. Beginning in June 2007, the results of T2 Entertainment and T2 Advertisement have been included in our consolidated financial statements. The results of Jinyou have been included in our consolidated financial statements starting from September 2008. For additional information, see Item 4, “Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Regulation — Regulations Relating to Online Games in the PRC — Foreign Ownership Restrictions” and Item 4, “Information on the Company — C. Organizational Structure” in this annual report. 14 Table of Contents In July 2006, the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology (“MIIT”, formerly the Ministry of Information Industry) issued a notice, which prohibits holders of value-added telecommunications business operation licenses (“ICP licenses”) from leasing, transferring or selling a telecommunications business operating license to any foreign investors in any form, or providing any resource, sites or facilities to any foreign investors for their illegal operation of telecommunications business in the PRC. The notice also requires that ICP license holders and their shareholders directly own the domain names and trademarks used by such ICP license holders in their daily operations. The notice further requires each ICP license holder to have the necessary facilities for its approved business operations and to maintain such facilities in the regions covered by its license. In addition, all value-added telecommunication service providers are required to maintain network and information security in accordance with the standards set forth under relevant PRC regulations. Local authorities in the various regions were required to ensure that existing ICP license holders conducted self-assessments of their compliance with the Notice and submitted their status reports to the MIIT prior to November 1, 2006. T2 Entertainment has conducted its self-assessment and believes that it is in compliance with the requirements of notice. Jinyou obtained the ICP license in September 2008. We believe that the ownership structure and business operation models of our PRC subsidiaries comply with all existing PRC laws, rules and regulations, and no consent, approval or license is required under any of the existing PRC laws and regulations for their ownership structure, businesses and operations, except those which we have already obtained or which would not have a material adverse effect on our business or operations as a whole. There are, however, substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of current or future PRC laws and regulations. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that PRC government authorities will ultimately take a view that is consistent with our view. If we or any of our PRC operating companies are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, the relevant government authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations and could impose significant penalties and sanctions or other regulatory or enforcement actions, including levying fines, that could be harmful to our business. Any of these actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could also face material and adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that our contractual arrangements with T2 Entertainment, T2 Advertisement and Jinyou were not made on reasonable commercial terms. In such an event, they could adjust our income and expenses for PRC tax purposes in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment which could result in an increase in our PRC subsidiaries’ tax liability or limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to maintain preferential tax treatments and other financial incentives. The contractual arrangements with T2 Entertainment, T2 Advertisement and Jinyou and their shareholders may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct ownership We operate our online games business through T2 Entertainment, T2 Advertisement and Jinyou, all of which are our VIEs. We have no ownership interest in any of these VIEs and rely on a series of contractual arrangements that are intended to give us effective control over them. However, the contractual arrangements may not be as effective as compared to having direct ownership and control over these companies. Direct ownership would allow us, for example, to directly exercise our rights as a shareholder to effect changes in the board of directors, which, in turn, could affect changes, at the management level. In addition, these VIEs could violate their contractual arrangements with us, go bankrupt, suffer from problems in their businesses or otherwise become unable to perform their contracts with us. As a result, our business could be disrupted and our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Most principal shareholders of T2 Entertainment, T2 Advertisement and Jinyou are executive officers of T2CN and have no substantial shareholdings in our Company. Thus, their interests as shareholders of the VIEs and their duties to our Company may conflict. We cannot assure you that when conflicts of interest arise, these persons will act completely in our interests or that conflicts of interests will be resolved in our favor. Any legal proceeding could result in the disruption of our business, diversion of our resources and the incurring of substantial costs. All of these contractual arrangements are governed by PRC laws and provide for the resolution of disputes through either arbitration or litigation in the PRC. Accordingly, the underlying contracts would be interpreted in accordance with PRC laws and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. The legal environment in the PRC is not as developed as in other jurisdictions, such as the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements. In the event we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, we may be unable to exert effective control over our PRC operating VIEs, and our ability to conduct our business may be negatively affected. See Item 4, “Information on the Company — C. Organizational Structure” in this annual report. 15 Table of Contents The laws and regulations governing the online games industry in the PRC are evolving and new regulations may adversely affect our business Our provision of online games and online game-related content on our websites in China is subject to various PRC laws and regulations relating to the telecommunications industry and Internet and online games, and is regulated by various government and regulatory authorities. The principal PRC regulations governing the provision of Internet content and online gaming services include (among others) the Telecommunications Regulations (2000), the Administrative Rules for Foreign Investments in Telecommunications Enterprises (2001), the Administrative Measures for Telecommunications Business Operating Licenses (2001), the Tentative Measures for Administration of Internet Culture (2003), the Tentative Measures for the Administration of Internet Publications (2002), the Opinions on the Development and Management of Online Games (2005) and the Anti-Internet Addiction Regulations (2007). We may be affected by these regulations, which seek to regulate the content of online games and discourage online game players from spending excessive amounts of time playing online games. This may reduce the number of our users, the growth rate of our user base, the general online games market in the PRC or the average number of hours played by online game players, or cause us to reduce usage fees or other charges in connection with our online games business. In addition, compliance with such regulations may require us to incur substantial costs in modifying or adapting our game software to comply with the regulatory requirements. This may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The adoption of new laws or regulations in the PRC relating to the Internet, or particular applications or interpretations of existing laws, could decrease the growth in the use of the Internet, decrease the demand for our products and services, increase the cost of conducting our business or could otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. New PRC laws and regulations that address issues such as user privacy, pricing, online content, taxation, advertising, intellectual property, information security, and the characteristics and quality of online products and services may be enacted. For example, in order to counter the Internet addiction, in April 2007, eight PRC government authorities issued regulations to discourage online game-players who are minors from spending excessive amounts of time playing online games. Pursuant to these regulations, Internet game operators have been ordered to install anti-addiction software features on games offered in the PRC, which will, among other features, limit the number of points and other benefits which can be awarded to game players after they have been online in excess of specified periods of time. Internet game operators will also be required to adopt real-name registration, which will require online game players to register their real identity information before they will be allowed to play online games. See Item 4, “Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Regulation” in this annual report. There are no clear laws or regulations governing virtual asset property rights, in particular, in Greater China, and therefore, it is not clear what liabilities, if any, online game operators may have in respect of virtual assets In the course of playing online games, some virtual assets, such as special equipment, player experience grades and other features of our users’ game characters, are acquired and accumulated. Such virtual assets can be important to online game players. In practice, virtual assets can be lost for various reasons, often through unauthorized use of user identifications by other users and occasionally through data loss caused by delay of network service or by a network crash. Currently there are no clear laws or regulations governing virtual asset property rights, in particular, in Greater China where we operate our online games business. In the case of a loss of virtual assets, we may be sued by online game players and could be held liable for damages, which may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Restrictions on virtual currency may adversely affect our revenues from online game operations in the PRC Our online game operations revenues in the PRC are primarily collected through the sale of our prepaid game cards or online sale of game points. On February 15, 2007, 14 PRC government authorities jointly issued Circular for Further Strengthening the Administration of Internet Café and Online Games, which directs the People’s Bank of China (“PBOC”) to strengthen the administration of virtual currency in online games to avoid any adverse impact on the PRC economy and financial system. This circular provides that the total amount of virtual currency issued by online game operators and the amount purchased by individual game players should be strictly limited, with a strict and clear division between virtual transactions and real transactions carried out by way of electronic commerce. This notice also provides that virtual currency should only be used to purchase virtual items. These restrictions may result in lower sales of our prepaid game cards or game points, and could have an adverse effect on our game operations revenues. 16 Table of Contents Our business may be adversely affected by government policies and regulation of Internet cafés in the PRC Internet cafés are one of our primary venues where our online games were distributed and played in the PRC. The PRC government has tightened its regulations of Internet cafés including through limiting the number of new operating licenses issued and reducing the operating hours of such cafés. In February 2007, 14 PRC government authorities jointly issued a notice, which suspended approval for the establishment of new Internet cafés and called for strengthened regulation of existing Internet cafés. It is unclear when or if this suspension will be lifted. The PRC governmental authorities may from time to time impose stricter requirements, such as the customers’ age limit and hours of operation, among others, as a result of the occurrence and perception of, and the media attention on, gang fights, arson and other incidents in or related to Internet cafés. The implementation of these measures, or enactment by the PRC government of any additional laws to further regulate Internet cafés, may result in fewer customers or less time spent by customers playing our online games, which could restrict our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and expand our customer base. See Item 4, “Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Regulation — Internet Café Regulation” in this annual report. Fluctuations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies in which we conduct our business could adversely affect our profitability The operations of our online games business are conducted in NT dollars, Hong Kong dollars and Renminbi. Accordingly, fluctuations in the exchange rates could have a positive or negative effect on our reported results. Generally, an appreciation of NT dollars, Hong Kong dollars or Renminbi against U.S. dollars results in a foreign exchange loss for monetary assets denominated in U.S. dollars, and a foreign exchange gain for monetary liabilities denominated in U.S. dollars. On the contrary, a devaluation of NT dollars, Hong Kong dollars or Renminbi against U.S. dollars results in a foreign exchange gain for monetary assets denominated in U.S. dollars, and a foreign exchange loss for monetary liabilities denominated in U.S. dollars. Given the constantly changing currency exposures and the substantial volatility of currency exchange rates, we cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations upon future operating results. There can be no assurance that we will not experience currency losses in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in foreign exchange and foreign investment regulations and limitations on dividend payment in the PRC may affect our ability to invest in China and the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to pay dividends and service debts Renminbi is not a freely convertible currency at present. The PRC government regulates conversion between Renminbi and foreign currencies. Changes in PRC laws and regulations on foreign exchange may result in uncertainties in our financing and operating plans in China. Over the years, China has significantly reduced the government’s control over routine foreign exchange transactions under current accounts, including trade and service related foreign exchange transactions, payment of dividends and service of foreign debts. In accordance with the existing foreign exchange regulations in China, our PRC subsidiaries may, within the scope of current account transactions, pay dividends and service debts in foreign currencies without prior approval from the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, there can be no assurance that the current PRC foreign exchange policies with respect to debt service and payment of dividends in foreign currencies will continue in the future. Changes in PRC foreign exchange policies may have a negative impact on our ability to service our foreign currency-denominated indebtedness and to distribute dividends to our shareholders in foreign currencies since our subsidiaries in China need to convert their Renminbi cash flow to service such foreign debt and to make such dividend payments. Foreign exchange transactions by our PRC subsidiaries under the capital account continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls. In particular, foreign exchange transactions involving foreign direct investment, foreign debts and outbound investment in securities and derivatives are subject to limitations and require approvals from the relevant SAFE authorities. We have the choice, as permitted by the PRC foreign investment regulations, to invest in the form of registered capital or a shareholder loan into our PRC subsidiaries to finance our operations in China. Our choice of investment is affected by the different treatments under the relevant PRC regulations with respect to capital-account and current-account foreign exchange transactions in China. For example, our transfer of funds to our subsidiaries in China is subject to approval of PRC governmental authorities in case of an increase in registered capital, or subject to registration with PRC governmental authorities in case of a shareholder loan. These and other limitations on the flow of funds between us and our PRC subsidiaries could restrict our ability to act in response to changing market conditions and limit our flexibility in the management of our cash flow and financings. See Item 10, “Additional Information — D. Exchange Controls” in this annual report. In addition, recent PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject the PRC resident shareholders of our PRC subsidiaries or us to penalties and limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our subsidiaries’ ability to increase their registered capital, distribute profits to us, or otherwise adversely affect us. Moreover, our PRC subsidiaries are required to set aside a certain percentage of their after-tax profit based on PRC accounting standards each year for their reserve fund in accordance with the requirements of relevant PRC laws and the relevant provisions in their respective articles of associations. As a result, our PRC subsidiaries may be restricted in their ability to transfer any portion of their net income to us whether in the form of dividends, loans or advances. 17 Table of Contents There are economic risks associated with doing business in Taiwan, particularly due to the tense relationship between Taiwan and the PRC Our principal executive offices and a significant portion of our assets are located in Taiwan and a major portion of our revenues of online games business are derived from our operations in Taiwan. Taiwan, as part of the Republic of China, has a unique international political status. The PRC asserts sovereignty over mainland China and Taiwan and does not recognize the legitimacy of the Taiwan government. Relations between Taiwan and the PRC and other factors affecting the political or economic conditions of Taiwan could also affect our online games business. Risks Related to Ownership of our Shares The price of our Shares has been volatile historically and may continue to be volatile, which may make it difficult for holders to resell our Shares when desired or at attractive prices The trading price of our Shares has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. In 2008, the closing prices of our Shares on the NASDAQ Stock Market have ranged from US$2.90 to US$20.70 per share, and the closing price on June 25, 2009 was US$5.77. Our Share price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors. In addition, the financial markets in general, and the market prices for Internet-related companies in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our Shares, regardless of our operating performance. We are controlled by the Koo family, which has significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, and their interests may conflict with your interests As of March 31, 2009, members of the Koo family beneficially owned approximately 19.85 percent of our outstanding Shares. Accordingly, the members of the Koo family have significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations, the sale of all or substantially all of our assets and the power to prevent or cause a change in control. The interests of such members of the Koo family may differ from or conflict with your interests. Our transactions with related parties may not benefit us and may harm our Company We have entered into several transactions with our certain related parties. We believe that we have conducted our related-party transactions on an arm’s-length basis and on terms comparable to, or more favorable to us than, similar transactions we would enter into with independent third parties. However, we cannot assure you that all our future transactions with related parties will be beneficial to us. See Item 7, “Major Shareholders and Related-Party Transactions” in this annual report. Our online games business in the PRC relies on payments made by our PRC VIEs to T2CN, our majority-owned subsidiary, pursuant to contractual arrangements to transfer any such revenues to T2CN. Any restriction on such payments and any increase in the amount of PRC taxes applicable to such payments may materially and adversely affect our business and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders T2 Entertainment, T2 Advertisement and Jinyou are not owned by us and they are not able to make dividend payments to us. Instead, T2CN, our majority-owned subsidiary in China, entered into a number of agreements with T2 Entertainment, T2 Advertisement and Jinyou, including certain exclusive technical service and consultancy agreement and exclusive business consultancy service agreements, pursuant to which T2 Entertainment, T2 Advertisement and Jinyou pay T2CN for certain services that T2CN provides to these companies. However, depending on the nature of services provided, certain of these payments are subject to PRC taxes at different rates, including business taxes and VATs, which effectively reduce the amount that T2CN receives from T2 Entertainment, T2 Advertisement and Jinyou. We cannot assure you that the PRC government will not impose restrictions on such payments or change the tax rates applicable to such payments. Any such restrictions on such payment or increases in the applicable tax rates may materially and adversely affect our ability to receive payments from T2 Entertainment, T2 Advertisement and Jinyou or the amount of such payments, and may in turn materially and adversely affect our business, our net income and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. 18 Table of Contents The ability of our subsidiaries in Taiwan to distribute dividends to us may be subject to restrictions under the laws of Taiwan We are a holding company, and some of our assets constitute our ownership interests in our subsidiaries in Taiwan, including Hoshin GigaMedia, which owns the Taiwan-based operations of our online games business. Accordingly, part of our primary internal source of funds to meet our cash needs is our share of the dividends, if any, paid by our subsidiaries, including those in Taiwan. The distribution of dividends to us from these subsidiaries in Taiwan is subject to restrictions imposed by the applicable corporate and tax regulations in these countries, which are more fully described in Item 5, “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — B. Liquidity and Capital Resources — Dividends from Our Subsidiaries” in this annual report. In addition, although there are currently no foreign exchange control regulations which restrict the ability of our subsidiaries in Taiwan to distribute dividends to us, the relevant regulations may be changed and the ability of these subsidiaries to distribute dividends to us may be restricted in the future. Anti-takeover provisions under the Singapore Securities and Futures Act (Chapter 289) and the Singapore Code on Take-overs and Mergers may delay, deter or prevent a future takeover or change of control of our Company, which could adversely affect the price of our Shares There are provisions under the Singapore Securities and Futures Act (Chapter 289) and the Singapore Code on Take-overs and Mergers (the “Code”) that may delay, deter or prevent a future takeover or change of control of our Company. Anyone acquiring an interest, either on his own or together with parties acting in concert with him, in 30 percent or more of our voting shares must extend a takeover offer for the remaining voting shares in accordance with the provisions of the Code. A person holding between 30 percent and 50 percent of our voting shares, either on his own or together with parties acting in concert with him, must also make a takeover offer in accordance with the provisions of the Code if that person together with parties acting in concert with him acquires additional voting shares in excess of one percent of the total number of voting shares in any six-month period. These provisions may discourage or prevent transactions that involve an actual or threatened change of control of our Company. This may harm you because an acquisition bid may allow you to sell your Shares at a price above the prevailing market price. Our shareholders may be subject to Singapore taxes Singapore tax law may differ from the tax laws of other jurisdictions, including the United States. Gains from the sale of our Shares by a person not tax resident in Singapore may be taxable in Singapore if such gains are part of the profits of any business carried on in Singapore. For additional information, see Item 10, “Additional Information — E. Taxation — Singapore Tax Consideration” in this annual report. You should consult your tax advisors concerning the overall tax consequences of acquiring, owning or selling the Shares. We are a Singapore company, and because the rights of shareholders under Singapore law differ from those under U.S. law, you may have difficulty in protecting your shareholder rights or enforcing any judgment obtained in the U.S. against us or our affiliates Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association and by the laws governing corporations incorporated in Singapore. The rights of our shareholders and the responsibilities of members of our board of directors under Singapore law are different from those applicable to a corporation incorporated in the United States and, therefore, our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests in connection with actions by the management, members of our board of directors or our controlling shareholders than they would as shareholders of a corporation incorporated in the United States. Our Company is incorporated under the laws of the Republic of Singapore. Many of our directors and senior management reside outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or any of these persons or to enforce in the United States any judgment obtained in the U.S. courts against us or any of these persons, including judgments based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws or any state or territory of the United States. Judgments of the U.S. courts based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws may not be enforceable in Singapore courts, and there is doubt as to whether Singapore courts will enter judgments in original actions brought in Singapore courts based solely upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a result, you may be subject to materially adverse tax consequences with respect to our Shares Although we do not believe we should be classified as a passive foreign investment company for the 2009 taxable year, no assurances may be given that we will not be classified as a passive foreign investment company in the current or any future taxable year. For a discussion of the factors that will affect whether or not we are classified as a passive foreign investment company, see Item 10, “Additional Information — E. Taxation — U.S. Tax Considerations — Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules.” If you are a U.S. person holding Shares, (or have held Shares during a taxable year in respect of which we were classified as a passive foreign investment company and you continue to hold such Shares or portion thereof) and we are classified as a passive foreign investment company and you do not determine to make a mark-to-market election, you will be subject to special U.S. federal income tax rules that may have materially adverse tax consequences and will require annual reporting. 19 Table of Contents 